Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our equity securities could decline. Investors and prospective investors should carefully consider the following risks, the risks referred to elsewhere in this Annual Report and the information contained under the heading "Warning Concerning Forward Looking Statements" before deciding whether to invest in our securities. Risks related to our business Our operations have produced losses. From when we began operations on January 31, 2007, through 2010 our business produced losses. Although some of our historical results were impacted by separation obligations with our former 27 Table of Contents management, business reorganizations and other costs that did not recur and we have been profitable in 2011, 2012 and 2013, we believe our losses in prior periods were also the result of the general decline of the U.S. and world economies over which we have no control. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to operate profitably in future periods. Our operating margins are narrow. Our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013, were $7.9 billion, while the sum of our cost of goods sold (excluding depreciation) and site level operating expenses for the same period totaled $7.5 billion. Fuel sales in particular generate low gross margin percentages. Our fuel sales for the year ended December 31, 2013, were $6.5 billion and our gross margin on fuel sales was $0.3 billion, or approximately 5.3% of fuel sales. A small percentage decline in our future revenues or increase in our future costs and expenses, especially revenues and costs and expenses related to fuel, may cause our profits to decline or us to incur losses. Our financial results are affected by U.S. economic conditions. The trucking industry is the primary customer for our goods and services. Demand for trucking services in the U.S. generally reflects the amount of commercial activity in the U.S. economy. When the U.S. economy declines, demand for our products and services typically declines. For example, in the recent past declines in housing construction led to less lumber and construction materials being shipped, and these reduced shipments resulted in fewer customers and lower sales volumes at our travel centers. While the U.S. economy recently has been slowly growing over the past several quarters and trucking activity measures reflect growth in that industry, the strength and sustainability of any economic recovery is uncertain. If the U.S. economy continues to operate as it has over the past few years, or if it worsens, our financial results may not improve and may decline. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness and rent obligations, which could adversely affect our financial condition. As of December 31, 2013, we had total consolidated indebtedness of $154.9 million, consisting of letters of credit outstanding under our credit facility and $110 million of our 8.25% Senior Notes due 2028. As of December 31, 2013, we also had deferred rent obligations of $150 million, $107.1 of which is due on December 31, 2022, and $42.9 million of which is due on June 30, 2024, and substantial ongoing obligations under our leases. Together, these obligations are substantial and could limit our ability to obtain financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, refinancing, lease obligations or other purposes. They may also increase our vulnerability to adverse economic, market and industry conditions, limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business operations or to our industry overall, and place us at a disadvantage in relation to competitors that have lower debt levels. Any or all of the above events and factors could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are obligated to pay material amounts of rent to HPT. The terms of our leases with HPT require us to pay all of our operating costs and generally fixed amounts of rent. During periods of business decline, like the one we experienced during the recent recession, our revenues and gross margins may decrease but our minimum rents due to HPT do not decline. A decline in our revenues or an increase in our expenses may make it difficult or impossible for us to meet all of our obligations and, if we default under our HPT leases, we may be unable to continue our business. 28 Table of Contents Fuel price increases and fuel price volatility negatively affect our business. High fuel prices and the inability to project future prices have several adverse impacts upon our business. First, high fuel prices result in higher truck shipping costs. This causes shippers to consider alternative means for transporting freight, which reduces trucking business and, in turn, reduces our business. Second, high fuel prices cause our trucking customers to seek cost savings throughout their businesses. This has resulted in many customer measures to conserve fuel, such as lower maximum driving speeds and reduced truck engine idling reducing total fuel consumption and our fuel sales. Third, higher fuel prices may result in less disposable income for our customers to purchase our nonfuel goods and services. Fourth, higher and more volatile fuel commodity prices increase the working capital needed to maintain our fuel inventories and receivables, and this increases our costs of doing business. Further, increases in fuel prices may place us at a cost disadvantage to our competitors that may have larger and longer maintained fuel inventory that may have been purchased during periods of lower fuel prices. If fuel commodity prices or fuel price volatility increase, our financial results may not improve and may worsen. Increasing truck fuel efficiency may adversely impact our business. Government regulation and the high cost of motor fuels are causing truck manufacturers and our trucking customers to focus on fuel efficiency. The largest part of our business consists of selling motor fuel. If our trucking customers purchase less motor fuel because their trucks are operated more efficiently, our financial results will decline unless we are able to sufficiently offset those declines by selling substitute or other products or services, gaining market share or increasing our gross margins per gallon of fuel sold on lower volumes of fuel sales. It is unclear whether we will be able to operate our travel centers profitably if the amount of motor fuels used by the U.S. trucking industry declines because of fuel use efficiencies. If and as truck fuel use efficiency continues to increase and if we are unable to sufficiently increase our sales of other products and services to gain market share or to increase our profit margins on lower fuel volumes, our profits may decline or we may incur losses. Climate change and other environmental legislation and regulation and market reaction thereto may decrease demand for our major product, diesel fuel, and require us to make significant capital or other expenditures, which may adversely affect our business. Climate change legislation and regulation, including those addressing greenhouse gas emissions, and market reaction to any such legislation or regulation or to climate change concerns, may decrease the demand for our major product, diesel fuel, and may require us to make significant capital or other expenditures. Legislative and regulatory initiatives requiring increased truck fuel efficiency have accelerated in the United States, and these mandates have and may continue to result in decreased demand for diesel fuel, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increased costs incurred by our suppliers as a result of climate change or other environmental legislation or regulation may be passed on to us in the prices we pay for our fuel supplies, but we may not be able to pass on those increased costs to our customers. Increased fuel costs resulting from these reasons would likely have similar effects on our business, operations and liquidity as discussed elsewhere regarding high fuel costs, including decreased demand for our fuel at our locations, increased working capital needs and decreased fuel gross margins. Further, legislation and regulations that limit carbon emissions may cause our energy costs at our locations to increase. Moreover, technological changes developed or changes in customer transportation or fueling preferences, including as a result of or in response to any such legislation, regulation or market reaction, may require us to make significant capital or other expenditures to adopt those technologies or to address those changed preferences and may decrease the demand for products and services sold at our locations. For example, federal and state governmental requirements addressing emissions from trucks and other motor vehicles, such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's gasoline and 29 Table of Contents diesel sulfur control requirements that limit the concentration of sulfur in motor gasoline and diesel fuel, could negatively impact our business by making the fuel more expensive and causing our customers to buy less. For more information regarding climate change matters and their possible adverse impact on us, please see Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis—Environmental and Climate Change Matters." Our travel centers require regular and substantial maintenance and capital investments. Our travel centers are open for business 24 hours per day, 365 days per year. Also, many of our travel centers were originally constructed more than 25 years ago. Because of the age of many of our travel centers and because of the nature and intensity of the uses of our travel centers, our travel centers require regular and substantial expenditures for maintenance and capital investments to remain functional and attractive to customers. If we cannot access capital necessary to maintain our properties, our business may decline and our profits may decline or we may incur losses. Also, deferring certain capital expenditures in the near term may require us to make even larger amounts of capital expenditures in the future. Although we may request that HPT purchase future renovations, improvements and equipment at the travel centers that we lease from HPT, HPT is not obligated to purchase any amounts and any amounts it purchases will result in an increase in our rent payable to HPT. Our failure to prepare and timely file our periodic reports with the SEC may adversely affect our access to the public markets to raise debt or equity capital as necessary to make required investments in our properties or to implement our business strategies. We are not current in our reporting requirements with the SEC, and, as a result, are not able to use our shelf registration statement on Form S-3 to access the public markets to raise debt or equity capital. This limitation could adversely affect our ability to make the capital investments necessary to maintain our properties or prevent us from pursuing transactions or implementing business strategies that we might otherwise believe are beneficial to our business. Until we have regained and maintained timely compliance with our reporting obligations under the Exchange Act for a period of no less than twelve full consecutive calendar months, we will be ineligible to use shorter and less costly filings, such as a registration statement on Form S-3, to register our securities for sale. We may use a registration statement on Form S-1 to register a sale of our securities to raise capital or complete acquisitions, but doing so would likely increase transaction costs and the time required to raise capital and adversely impact our ability to raise capital or complete acquisitions in a timely manner. We may not complete our pending acquisitions within the time frame we anticipate, or at all, which could have a negative effect on us. Our pending acquisitions are subject to satisfaction of closing conditions, which could delay or prevent completion, cause us to incur additional costs, or both. If we do not consummate one or more pending acquisitions within the expected time frame, or at all, it could have a negative effect on our ability to execute on our growth strategy or financial performance. Additionally, if we incur substantial expenses in connection with the negotiation and completion of a particular transaction and it is not completed, we would have incurred these expenses without realizing the expected benefits of the transaction. Acquisitions may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected and the anticipated benefits and cost savings of a particular transaction may not be fully realized. Travel centers that we acquire often require substantial improvements in order to be brought up to our standards, which improvements require an extended period of time to plan, design, permit and 30 Table of Contents complete, often followed by a period of time to mature and become part of our customers' networks. We estimate that our travel center acquisitions generally will reach stabilization in approximately the third year after acquisition, but actual results can vary widely from this estimate. If improvements are more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected or if reaching maturity takes longer than expected or does not occur at all, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. Additionally, the success of any acquisition, including the realization of anticipated benefits and cost savings, will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully combine the acquiree's business and ours. The integration may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected, may result in the loss of key employees or business disruption to us, or may adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers and employees or to fully achieve the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the acquisition. If we experience difficulties with the integration process for a particular acquisition, the anticipated benefits of the transaction may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. Integration efforts may also divert management attention and resources. These matters could have an adverse effect on us for an undetermined period after completion of a transaction. The obligations and liabilities with respect to an acquisition, some of which may be unanticipated or unknown, may be greater than we have anticipated which may diminish the value of the acquisition to us. We may acquire obligations and liabilities in a particular transaction, some of which may not have been disclosed to us, may not be reflected or reserved for in the acquiree's historical financial statements, or may be greater than we have anticipated. These obligations and liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may not complete our planned travel center development projects within the time frame or for the investment we anticipate, or at all. Our planned travel center development projects could be delayed or not completed or could require a greater investment of capital or management time, or both, than we expect. Additionally, if we design, plan, permit or construct a project but do not complete it, we may incur substantial costs without realizing any expected benefits. We rely upon trade creditors for a significant amount of our working capital and the availability of alternative sources of financing may be limited. Our fuel purchases are our largest operating cost. Historically, we have paid for our fuel purchases after delivery. In the past, as our fuel costs increased with the increase in commodity market prices, some of our fuel suppliers were unwilling to adjust the amounts of our available trade credit to accommodate the increased costs of the fuel volumes that we purchase; for example, a $10 million amount of trade credit will allow us to purchase 5 million gallons of fuel at $2.00 per gallon, but only 3.33 million gallons at $3.00 per gallon. Also, our historical financial results and general U.S. economic conditions have caused some fuel suppliers to request letters of credit or other forms of security for our purchases. We cannot predict how high or low fuel prices may be in the future, and fuel commodity prices significantly impact our working capital requirements. In light of economic, industry and global credit market conditions and our historical operating losses, the availability and terms of any credit we may be able to obtain are uncertain. Although we maintain a credit facility permitting borrowings of up to $200 million, we typically utilize a large portion of that facility for issuances of letters of credit to our fuel suppliers to secure our fuel purchases and to taxing authorities (or surety bond providers) for fuel taxes. In addition, our qualified collateral historically has been below the amount required to permit the entire $200 million under the 31 Table of Contents credit facility to be available to us for borrowings. At December 31, 2013, a total of $130.8 million was available to us for loans and letters of credit under the credit facility, of which we had used $44.9 million for outstanding letters of credit issued under that facility to secure certain purchases, insurance, fuel tax and other trade obligations. Any increased investment in working capital decreases our financial flexibility to use our capital for other business purposes or to fund our operations and may cause us to suffer losses. We received a waiver, until July 31, 2014, of the requirement under our credit facility to furnish unaudited consolidated financial statements as of and for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2014 within 45 days of such quarter end. If we are unable to furnish these financial statements within this time period or obtain an extension of the waiver, we may be unable to borrow under our credit facility, which could affect our ability to meet our business obligations or grow our business. Our credit facility is secured by substantially all of our cash, accounts receivable, inventory, equipment and intangible assets and imposes restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness or to grant security interests in our assets. Further, under the HPT Leases, subject to certain exceptions, our tenant subsidiaries may not incur debt secured by any of their assets used in the operation of the leased travel centers without HPT's consent. Because security interests in a significant amount of our assets have already been granted and we are contractually limited in our ability to incur additional debt or grant security interests, our ability to obtain additional financing may be limited. Further, our failure to timely file this Annual Report with the SEC, consequent inability to use our shelf registration statement on Form S-3 until we have regained and maintained timely compliance with our reporting obligations under the Exchange Act for a period of not less than twelve full consecutive calendar months and the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting may negatively impact our ability to issue new debt and equity securities or the timing and terms of such an issuance. Our credit facility imposes restrictive covenants on us, and a default under the agreements relating to our credit facility or under our indenture governing our Senior Notes could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Our credit facility requires us and our subsidiaries, among other obligations, to maintain a specified financial ratio under certain circumstances and to satisfy certain financial tests. These tests include maintenance of certain financial ratios any time that excess availability under the credit facility falls below 15% of the maximum credit limit of $200 million, until such time that the excess availability has been greater than 15% of the maximum credit limit for thirty consecutive days. In addition, our credit facility restricts, among other things, our ability to incur debt and liens, make certain investments and pay dividends and other distributions including, under certain circumstances, payments on the Senior Notes. Under certain circumstances, we are required to seek permission from the lenders under our credit facility to engage in specified corporate actions. Our credit facility also requires that we furnish certain of our financial statements to our lenders within specified time periods. Additionally, the indenture governing our Senior Notes requires that we file our Exchange Act reports within prescribed time periods. If we are unable to furnish these financial statements or reports within the prescribed time periods, or, in the case of our credit facility, obtain a waiver, we may be in default under our credit facility or under the indenture governing the Senior Notes, which could give rise to adverse consequences, including giving lenders or holders of our Senior Notes the right to exercise certain remedies, such as demanding immediate repayment of amounts owed, and restrictions on our ability to borrow. If we are unable to borrow under our credit facility, we may be unable to meet our business obligations or grow our business. Effective May 31, 2014, we received a waiver from our lenders extending until July 31, 2014, our requirement to furnish our quarterly financial statements as of and for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2014. 32 Table of Contents Various risks, uncertainties and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with these covenants. Failure to comply with these covenants (or similar covenants contained in future financing agreements) could result in a default under our credit facility, indenture and other agreements containing cross-default provisions, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A default could permit lenders or holders to accelerate the maturity of the debt under these agreements and to foreclose upon any collateral securing the debt and to terminate any commitments to lend. Under these circumstances, we might not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations, including our obligations under the Senior Notes. In addition, the limitations imposed by financing agreements on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions might significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing. If our indebtedness were to be accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay such indebtedness in full. In such circumstances, we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation and, as a result, investors could lose their investment in our securities. An interruption in our fuel supplies would materially adversely affect our business. To mitigate the risks arising from fuel price volatility, we generally maintain limited fuel inventories. Accordingly, an interruption in our fuel supplies would materially adversely affect our business. Interruptions in fuel supplies may be caused by local conditions, such as a malfunction in a particular pipeline or terminal, by weather related events, such as hurricanes in the areas where petroleum or natural gas is extracted or refined, or by national or international conditions, such as government rationing, acts of terrorism, wars and the like. Further, our fuel suppliers may fail to provide us with fuel due to these or other reasons. Any limitation in available fuel supplies or on the fuel we can offer for sale may cause our profits to decline or us to experience losses. Our storage and dispensing of petroleum products and natural gas create the potential for environmental damages, and compliance with environmental laws is often expensive. Our business is subject to laws relating to the protection of the environment. The travel centers and convenience stores we operate include fueling areas, truck repair and maintenance facilities and tanks for the storage and dispensing of petroleum products, natural gas and other hazardous substances, all of which create the potential for environmental damage. As a result, we regularly incur environmental clean up costs. Our balance sheet as of December 31, 2013, included an accrued liability of $7.5 million for environmental remediation and related costs. Because of the uncertainties associated with environmental expenditures, it is possible that future expenditures could be substantially higher than this amount. Environmental laws expose us to the possibility that we may become liable to reimburse governments or others for damages and costs they incur in connection with environmental hazards or liable for fines and penalties for failure to comply with environmental laws. We cannot predict what environmental legislation or regulations may be enacted or how existing laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted with respect to our products or activities in the future; more stringent laws, more vigorous enforcement policies or stricter interpretation of existing laws in the future could cause us to expend significant amounts or experience losses. In our experience, the risk of being subject to regulatory review and proceedings for environmental related matters is greater in certain jurisdictions, such as the State of California. We have significant operations in the State of California and are currently and have in the past been subject to regulatory review and proceedings for environmental related matters and may in the future be subject to similar reviews and proceedings in that state or elsewhere. Although to date our environmental regulatory matters in the State of California have not resulted in settlements or judgments against us, or otherwise resulted in our paying or agreeing to pay amounts, which have had, or which we expect would reasonably be likely to have, a material adverse effect on our business, there can be no assurance that 33 Table of Contents they will not have such an effect or that environmental regulatory reviews or proceedings elsewhere would not have such an effect on us. Under the leases between us and HPT, we generally have agreed to indemnify HPT from environmental liabilities it may incur arising at any of the properties we lease from HPT. Under our agreement with Shell, we have agreed to indemnify Shell and its affiliates from certain environmental liabilities they may incur with respect to our travel centers where natural gas fueling lanes have been installed. Although we maintain insurance policies which cover our environmental liabilities, that coverage may not adequately cover liabilities we may incur. To the extent we incur material amounts for environmental matters for which we do not receive insurance or other third party reimbursement or for which we have not recognized a liability in prior years, our operating results may be materially adversely affected. In addition, to the extent we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations, or we become subject to costs and requirements not similarly experienced by our competitors, our competitive position may be harmed. Also, to the extent we are or become obligated to fund any such liabilities, such funding obligation could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial position. Consolidation of our competitors and the third party fuel card companies may negatively affect our business. In 2010, the largest companies in our industry based on diesel fuel volume combined to form Pilot Flying J. As a result of this combination, increased competitive pressure could negatively impact our sales volumes and profitability and increase our site level operating expenses and selling, general and administrative expenses. In addition, most of our trucking customers transact business with us by use of fuel cards, which are issued by third party fuel card companies. The fuel card industry has only a few significant participants, including Comdata Network, Inc., or Comdata, the largest issuer of fuel cards, and Electronic Funds Source, LLC, or EFS, a company affiliated with Pilot Flying J. EFS is the product of the combination during 2011 and 2012 of the fuel card businesses of Transportation Clearing House LLC, EFS Transportation Services, Inc., and T-Check Systems, each previously one of the larger competitors to Comdata in the fuel card industry, making, we believe, EFS the second largest competitor in the fuel card industry. We are unable to determine the full extent and effect the combined Pilot Flying J may have on our financial position, results of operations, or competitive position, although we believe the combination enables Pilot Flying J to substantially alter the competitive conditions in the travel center industry. Further, we are unable to determine the extent of the effect that competition, or lack thereof, between Comdata and EFS in particular, may result in future increases in our transaction fee expenses or working capital requirements, or both. Our convenience stores are subject to a number of risks particular to the convenience store industry that, if materialized, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. The convenience store industry in the U.S. and in the geographic areas in which we operate is highly competitive and fragmented with ease of entry and constant change in the number and types of retailers offering the products and services similar to those we provide. We compete with other convenience store chains, independent convenience stores, supermarkets, drugstores, discount clubs, motor fuel service stations, mass merchants, fast food operations and other similar retail outlets. In recent years, several non-traditional retailers, such as supermarkets, club stores and mass merchants, have begun to compete directly with convenience stores, particularly in the sale of motor fuel and their market share is expected to grow. Increased competition or new entrants to the industry could result in reduction of our gross margins. Additionally, a large number of our convenience stores are located in Kentucky, making our convenience store business particularly vulnerable to changes in economic conditions in Kentucky. 34 Table of Contents Many of our labor costs are fixed and cannot be reduced without adversely affecting our business. To maintain and manage our operations requires certain minimum staffing levels to operate our travel centers 24 hours per day, 365 days per year, and we attempt to manage our staffing so to avoid excess, unused capacity. As a result, it may be difficult for us to effect future reductions in our staff without adversely affecting our business prospects. Also, certain opportunities for sales may be lost when labor is reduced. Our customers may become unable to pay us when we extend credit. We sell some of our products on credit. Customers purchasing fuel or other goods or services on credit from us may default on their obligations to pay, or they may extend the payment periods, for products sold to them on credit. In light of the challenging economic conditions that have existed in the U.S. generally during and since the recent recession and in the trucking industry specifically, and the slow and uneven recovery and expansion of the U.S. economy since the recession, the risk that some of our customers may not pay us may be greater at present than it had been prior to the recession. Also, to the extent that we are unable to collect receivables owed to us in a timely fashion, we may be required to increase amounts invested in our working capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We are involved in litigation which is expensive and may have adverse impacts upon our business. We are currently involved in litigation which is expensive and which may have adverse consequences to us. If these litigation matters or new litigation matters continue for extended periods or if they result in judgments adverse to us, our profits may decline or we may experience losses. We are named as a defendant in one lawsuit brought under U.S. federal antitrust laws that we have recently agreed to settle. This settlement is subject to court approval and other conditions, and if it is not completed and we were to be found liable for the claims made in the lawsuit, actual damages would be trebled and we would be subject to joint and several liability among the defendants, which could significantly magnify the effect of any adverse judgment. In our experience, the risk of litigation is greater in certain jurisdictions, such as the State of California. We have significant operations in the State of California and have in the past been, and may in the future be, party to employee and other litigation in that state or elsewhere. Although to date our litigation matters in the State of California have not resulted in settlements or judgments against us which have had a material adverse effect on our business, there can be no assurance that pending or future litigation in that jurisdiction or elsewhere would not have such an effect on us. We have defended, and will continue to defend, vigorously against litigation challenges. However, we or our subsidiaries may enter into settlement discussions in particular cases if we believe it is in our best interests to do so. Settlement of, or failure to successfully defend, litigation could result in liability that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. For additional information about material pending legal proceedings see Item 3, "Legal Proceedings", elsewhere in this Annual Report. Our labor costs may significantly increase as a result of healthcare regulatory initiatives. The adoption of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the related reconciliation measure, the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, and the regulations resulting from such legislation may significantly increase the costs of providing health care to our employees. Due to the complexity of the legislation and the uncertain timing and content of the related regulations, we are unable to predict the amount and timing of any such increased costs, but the cost may be material. In addition, it is likely that we will incur additional administrative costs to comply with certain provisions of this legislation. Because many of the rules and regulations continue to be defined, we are unable to predict the amount of these costs to comply with various provisions of this legislation. However, 35 Table of Contents changes to our employee healthcare costs could have a significant, adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Our franchisees may become unable to pay our rents, franchise royalties and other amounts due to us and we have limited control of our franchisees. Five travel centers that we lease from HPT are subleased to franchisees. A failure by our franchisees to pay rents to us would not affect our minimum rent payable to HPT. As of December 31, 2013, an additional 25 travel centers not owned by us or HPT are operated by franchisees. For the year ended December 31, 2013, the rent, franchise royalty and other revenue generated from all of our franchisee relationships was $12.7 million. We believe the difficult business conditions that have affected the travel centers that we operate during and since the recent U.S. recession, including the effects of U.S. economic conditions and high and volatile fuel commodity prices, have also adversely affected our franchisees and may make it difficult for our franchisees to pay the rent, franchise royalties and other amounts due to us. In addition, our sublease and franchise agreements with our franchisees are subject to periodic renewal by us or the franchisee. Also, various laws and our existing franchise agreements limit the control we may exercise over our franchisees' business activities. A failure by our franchisees to pay rent, franchise royalties and other amounts due to us, or the termination or non-renewal of a significant number of our franchise agreements, may cause our profits to decline. We rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of information technology could harm our business. We rely on information technology networks and systems including the Internet, or IT systems, to process, transmit and store electronic information, including financial records and personal identifying information such as employee and payroll data and workforce scheduling information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes, including our supply chain, retail sales, credit card payments and authorizations, financial transactions, banking and numerous other processes and transactions. We purchase some of the IT systems we use from vendors on whom our IT systems materially depend. We rely on commercially available and proprietary IT systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential customer information, such as payment card and credit information. In addition, the IT systems we use for transmission and approval of payment card transactions, and the technology utilized in payment cards themselves, may put payment card data at risk; and some of these IT systems are determined and controlled by the payment card suppliers and not by us. Although we have taken steps to protect and maintain the security of the IT systems we use and the data maintained in them, it is possible that our security measures will not prevent the improper functioning of or damage to the IT systems we use, or the improper access to such IT systems or disclosure of personally identifiable information, such as in the event of a cyber attack. Security breaches, including physical or electronic break ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers and similar breaches, can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Any compromise or breach of our IT systems could cause material interruptions in our operations, damage our reputation, subject us to material liability claims or regulatory penalties, reduce our customers' willingness to conduct business with us and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, the failure of the IT systems we use to operate effectively, or problems we may experience with maintaining the IT systems we currently use or transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, could significantly harm our business and operations and cause us to incur significant costs to remediate such problems. 36 Table of Contents Our sales could be harmed if we or our suppliers, franchisors, licensors or franchisees become associated with negative publicity. We operate our travel centers nationwide and operate convenience stores under a small number of brand names. We sell branded gasoline at most of our locations and many of our locations have QSRs operating under brands we do not own. In addition, we resell numerous other products we obtain from third parties. If the companies or brands associated with our products and offerings become associated with negative publicity, our customers may avoid purchasing these products and offerings, including at our locations, and may avoid visiting our locations because of our association with the particular company or brand. As noted elsewhere in this Annual Report, the control we may exercise over our franchisees is limited. Negative publicity or reputational damage relating to any of our franchisees may be imputed to our entire company and business. If we were to experience these or other instances of negative publicity or reputational damage, our sales and results of operations may be harmed. Privatization of toll roads or of rest areas may negatively affect our business. Some states have privatized their toll roads that are part of the interstate highway system. We believe it is likely that tolls will increase on privatized highways. In addition, some states may increase tolls for their own account. If tolls are introduced or increased on highways in the proximity of our locations, our business at those travel centers may decline because truckers and motorists may seek alternative routes. Similarly, some states have privatized or are considering privatizing their publicly owned highway rest areas. If publicly owned rest areas along highways are privatized and converted to travel centers in the proximity of some of our locations, our business at those locations may decline and we may experience losses. We may be unable to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, imposes limitations on the ability of a company taxable as a corporation that undergoes an "ownership change", as defined by the Code, to use its net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax benefits and deductions to reduce its tax liability. As a result of certain trading in our shares during 2007, we experienced an ownership change. Consequently, we may be unable to use our net operating loss generated in 2007 to offset any future taxable income we may generate. If we experience additional ownership changes, our net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards generated after 2007 could be subject to limitations on usage and the existence of a net unrecognized built-in loss at the time of an ownership change could limit our future tax deductions for a five year period after the ownership change. In 2009, our bylaws were amended to impose certain restrictions on the transfer of our shares in order to help us preserve the tax treatment of our net operating losses and other tax benefits (see below for a discussion of the risks related to our ownership limitations under the heading "Risks arising from certain relationships of ours and our organization and structure"). If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting our financial reporting could be inaccurate. Internal control systems are intended to provide reasonable assurance regarding the preparation and fair presentation of published financial statements. We concluded that our internal controls over financial reporting were not effective as of December 31, 2013. As described in Item 9A of this Annual Report, during 2013 we identified certain deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting with respect to income taxes, a lack of sufficient accounting department personnel and our financial statement close process. We cannot assure you that our actions will be completely effective or that we will not discover other material weaknesses in our controls. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting may be adversely affected, our business and financial condition could be harmed, investors may lose confidence in our 37 Table of Contents reported financial information and the market price of our common shares or other securities may decline. Risks arising from certain relationships of ours and our organization and structure Our business is subject to possible conflicts of interest with HPT and RMR. Our business is subject to possible conflicts of interest, as follows: •We have five Directors: one of whom, Barry M. Portnoy, also is a managing trustee of HPT, and Chairman, the majority owner and an employee of RMR; one of whom, Arthur G. Koumantzelis, is a former trustee of HPT from prior to when we became a separate public company; one of whom, Lisa Harris Jones, is a member of a law firm that previously had provided professional services to RMR; and one of whom, Thomas M. O'Brien, is a former executive officer of HPT from prior to when we became a separate public company. Further, Mr. Portnoy and two of our Independent Directors are members of the boards of trustees or boards of directors of other companies to which RMR or its affiliates provides management services. •Mr. O'Brien, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Andrew J. Rebholz, our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, and Mark R. Young, our Executive Vice President and General Counsel, are also officers of RMR. •We lease a large majority of our travel centers from HPT. •RMR provides us business management and shared services pursuant to a business management and shared services agreement and property management services with respect to our headquarters building pursuant to a property management agreement, and RMR provides business and property management services to HPT. •In the event of conflicts between us and RMR, any affiliate of RMR or any publicly owned entity with which RMR has a relationship, including HPT, our business management and shared services agreement allows RMR to act on its own behalf and on behalf of HPT or such other entity rather than on our behalf. •RMR's simultaneous contractual obligations to us and HPT create potential conflicts of interest, or the appearance of such conflicts. In connection with the agreement we entered as part of the HPT Transaction, we granted HPT a right of first refusal to purchase, lease, mortgage or otherwise finance any interest we own in a travel center before we sell, lease, mortgage or otherwise finance that travel center with another party, and we granted HPT and other entities to which RMR provides management services a right of first refusal to acquire or finance any real estate of the types in which they invest before we do, which could limit our ability to purchase or finance our properties or properties we may wish to invest in or acquire in the future. Also, under this agreement we agreed not to take any action that might reasonably be expected to have a material adverse impact on HPT's ability to qualify as a real estate investment trust, or REIT. We believe that our historical and ongoing business dealings with HPT and RMR have benefited us and that, despite the foregoing possible conflicts of interest, the transactions we have entered with HPT and RMR since the HPT Transaction have been commercially reasonable and not less favorable than otherwise available to us. Nonetheless, in the past, in particular following periods of volatility in the overall market or declines in the market price of a company's securities, shareholder litigation, dissident shareholder director nominations and dissident shareholder proposals have often been instituted against companies alleging conflicts of interest in business dealings with affiliated and related persons and entities. Our relationships with HPT, RMR, Affiliates Insurance Company, or AIC, an 38 Table of Contents Indiana insurance company, the other businesses and entities to which RMR provides management services, Barry Portnoy and other related parties of RMR may precipitate such activities. These activities, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention even if the action is unfounded. We have significant commercial arrangements with RMR and HPT and we are dependent on those arrangements in operating our business. We are party to a business management and shared services agreement with RMR, whereby RMR assists us with various aspects of our business, and a property management agreement with RMR, whereby RMR manages our headquarters office building. One of our Directors is the majority owner and Chairman of RMR. One of our other Directors, President and Chief Executive Officer, our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer and our Executive Vice President and General Counsel are also officers of RMR. Most of the travel centers that we operate are leased by us, principally from HPT. As a result of these factors, we are dependent on our arrangements with RMR and HPT in operating our business and any adverse developments in those arrangements could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to conduct our operations. Territorial restrictions placed on us by our leases with HPT and our franchise agreements with our franchisees could impair our ability to grow our business. Under our leases with HPT, without the consent of HPT, we generally cannot own, franchise, finance, operate, lease or manage any travel center or similar property within 75 miles in either direction along the primary interstate on which a travel center owned by HPT is located. Under the terms of our franchise agreements for TA travel centers, generally we have agreed not to operate, or allow another person to operate, a travel center or travel center business that uses the TA brand in a specified territory for that TA branded franchise location. Under the terms of our franchise agreements for Petro travel centers, generally we have agreed not to operate, or allow another person to operate, a travel center or travel center business that uses the Petro brand in a specified territory for that Petro branded franchise location. As a result of these restrictions, we may be unable to develop, acquire or franchise a travel center in an area in which an additional travel center may be profitable, thereby losing an opportunity for future growth of our business. Ownership limitations and certain other provisions in our limited liability company agreement, bylaws and certain material agreements may deter, delay or prevent a change in our control or unsolicited acquisition proposals. Our limited liability company agreement, or our LLC agreement, and bylaws contain separate provisions which prohibit any shareholder from owning more than 9.8% and 5% of the number or value of any class or series of our outstanding shares. The 9.8% ownership limitation in our LLC agreement is consistent with our contractual obligations with HPT to not take actions that may conflict with HPT's status as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code. The 5% ownership limitation in our bylaws is intended to help us preserve the tax treatment of our tax credit carryforwards, net operating losses and other tax benefits. We also believe these provisions promote good orderly governance. These provisions inhibit acquisitions of a significant stake in us and may deter, delay or prevent a change in our control or unsolicited acquisition proposals that a shareholder may consider favorable. Additionally, provisions contained in our LLC agreement and bylaws may have a similar impact, including, for example, provisions relating to: •the division of our Directors into three classes, with the term of one class expiring each year, which could delay a change of control; 39 Table of Contents •the authority of our Board of Directors, and not our shareholders, to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws and to fill vacancies on the Board of Directors; •limitations on the ability of shareholders to cause a special meeting of shareholders to be held and a prohibition on shareholders acting by written consent unless the consent is a unanimous consent of all our shareholders entitled to vote on the matter; •required qualifications for an individual to serve as a Director and a requirement that certain of our Directors be "Managing Directors" and other Directors be "Independent Directors", as defined in the governing documents; •the power of our Board of Directors, without shareholders' approval, to authorize and issue additional shares of any class or type on terms that it determines; •limitations on the ability of our shareholders to propose nominees for election as Directors and propose other business to be considered at a meeting of shareholders; •a requirement that an individual Director may only be removed for cause and then only by unanimous vote of the other Directors; and a 75% shareholders' vote and cause requirements for removal of our entire Board of Directors; •a 75% shareholders' vote requirement for shareholder nominations and other proposals that are not approved by our Board of Directors; •our election to be governed by Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which would prohibit us from engaging in a business combination with an interested shareholder, generally a person that together with its affiliates owns or within the last three years has owned 15% of our voting shares, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested shareholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner; •requirements that shareholders comply with regulatory requirements (including Louisiana, Montana and Nevada gaming and Indiana insurance licensing requirements) affecting us which could effectively limit share ownership of us, including in some cases, to 5% of our outstanding shares; and •requirements that any person nominated to be a Director comply with any clearance and pre-clearance requirements of state gaming or insurance licensing laws applicable to our business. In addition, the HPT Leases, our shareholders agreement with respect to AIC, our business management and shared services agreement with RMR and our credit facility each provide that our rights and benefits under those agreements may be terminated in the event that anyone acquires more than 9.8% of our shares or we experience some other change in control, as defined in those agreements, without the consent of HPT, RMR or the lenders under the credit facility, respectively, and that AIC and the other shareholders of AIC may have rights to acquire our interests in AIC if such an acquisition occurs or if we experience some other change of control. In addition, our obligation to repay deferred rent then outstanding under our amended leases with HPT may be accelerated if, among other things, a Director not nominated or appointed by the then members of our Board of Directors is elected to our Board of Directors or if our shareholders adopt a proposal (other than a precatory proposal) not recommended for adoption by the then members of our Board of Directors. For these reasons, among others, our shareholders may be unable to realize a change of control premium for securities they own or otherwise effect a change of our policies or a change of our control. 40 Table of Contents Our rights and the rights of our shareholders to take action against our Directors, officers, HPT and RMR are limited. Our LLC agreement eliminates the personal liability of each of our Directors to us and our shareholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as our Director, except for a breach of the Director's duty of loyalty to us or our shareholders as modified by our LLC agreement, for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involved intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, or for any transaction from which the Director derived an improper personal benefit. Our LLC agreement also provides that our Directors and officers, HPT, RMR, and the respective directors and officers of HPT and RMR shall not be liable for monetary damages to us or our shareholders for losses sustained or liabilities incurred as a result of any act or omission by any of them unless there has been a final, nonappealable judgment entered by a court determining that such person or entity acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud, willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that his, her or its conduct was unlawful. Our LLC agreement also generally requires us to indemnify, to the fullest extent permitted by law, our present and former Directors and officers, HPT, RMR, and the respective directors and officers of HPT and RMR for losses they may incur arising from claims or actions in which any of them may be involved in connection with any act or omission by such person or entity in good faith on behalf of or with respect to us. We also have similar obligations to our Directors and officers under individual indemnification agreements with such persons. In addition, we may be obligated to pay or reimburse the expenses incurred by our present and former Directors and officers, HPT, RMR, and the respective directors and officers of HPT and RMR without requiring a preliminary determination of their ultimate entitlement to indemnification. As a result, we and our shareholders may have more limited rights against our present and former Directors and officers, HPT, RMR, and the respective directors and officers of HPT and RMR than might otherwise exist absent the provisions in our LLC agreement and our indemnification agreements or that might exist with other companies, which could limit our shareholders' recourse in the event of actions not in our shareholders' best interest. Disputes with HPT and RMR and shareholder litigation against us or our Directors and officers may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings. Our contracts with HPT and RMR provide that any dispute arising under those contracts may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings. Similarly, our LLC agreement and bylaws provide that actions by our shareholders against us or against our Directors and officers, including derivative and class actions, may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings. As a result, we and our shareholders would not be able to pursue litigation for these disputes in courts against HPT, RMR or our Directors and officers if the disputes were referred to arbitration. In addition, the ability to collect attorney's fees or other damages may be limited in the arbitration proceedings, which may discourage attorneys from agreeing to represent parties wishing to commence such a proceeding. We may experience losses from our business dealings with AIC. As of May 9, 2014, we have invested approximately $6.1 million in AIC, we have purchased substantially all of our property insurance in a program designed and reinsured in part by AIC and we periodically consider the possibilities for expanding our relationship with AIC to other types of insurance. As of May 9, 2014, we, RMR and five other companies to which RMR provides management services each own 14.3% of AIC, and we and those other AIC shareholders participate in a combined insurance program designed and reinsured in part by AIC. Our principal reason for investing in AIC and for purchasing insurance in these programs is to seek to improve our financial results by obtaining improved insurance coverages at lower costs than may be otherwise available to us or by participating in any profits which we may realize as an owner of AIC. While we believe we have in the past benefitted from these arrangements, these beneficial financial results may not occur in the 41 Table of Contents future, and we may need to invest additional capital in order to continue to pursue these results. AIC's business involves the risks typical of an insurance business, including the risk that it may be insufficiently capitalized. Accordingly, financial benefits from our business dealings with AIC may not be achieved in the future, and we may experience losses from these dealings. The licenses, permits and related approvals for our operations may restrict our ownership or prevent or delay any change of control of us. We have locations in Louisiana, Montana and Nevada which include gaming operations. As a result, we and our subsidiaries involved in these operations are subject to gaming regulations in those states. Under state gaming regulations, which can vary by jurisdiction: •shareholders whose ownership of our securities exceeds certain thresholds may be required to report their holdings to and to be licensed, found suitable or approved by the relevant state gaming authorities, •persons seeking to acquire control over us or over the operation of our gaming license are subject to prior investigation by and approval from the relevant gaming authorities, •persons who wish to serve as one of our Directors or officers may be required to be approved, found suitable and in some cases licensed, by the relevant state gaming authorities, and •the relevant state gaming authorities may limit our involvement with or ownership of securities by persons they determine to be unsuitable. As an owner of AIC, we are licensed and approved as an insurance holding company; and any shareholder who owns or controls 10% or more of our securities or anyone who wishes to solicit proxies for election of, or to serve as, one of our Directors or for another proposal of business not approved by our Board of Directors may be required to receive pre-clearance from the relevant insurance regulators. The gaming and insurance regulations to which we are subject may discourage or prevent investors from nominating persons to serve as our Directors, from purchasing our securities, from attempting to acquire control of us or otherwise implementing changes that they consider beneficial. Risks related to our securities Our shares have experienced significant price and trading volume volatility and may continue to do so. Since we became a publicly traded company in January 2007, our shares have experienced significant share price and trading volatility, which may continue. The market price of our common shares has fluctuated and could fluctuate significantly in the future in response to various factors and events, including, but not limited to, the risks set out in this Annual Report, as well as: •the liquidity of the market for our common shares; •changes in our operating results; •changes in analysts' expectations; and •general economic and industry trends and conditions. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources. 42 Table of Contents Our securities are subject to delisting from the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, as a result of our inability to timely file our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2014 with the SEC. On May 13, 2014, we filed a Form 12b-25 indicating that as a result of the delay in completing this Annual Report, we were also unable to file our First Quarter 10-Q within the time period prescribed by the Exchange Act. While we are working to file the First Quarter 10-Q as soon as possible, there can be no assurance that we will do so in time to regain compliance with the relevant NYSE listing standards. Failure to regain compliance with the relevant NYSE listing standards could result in our securities being delisted. If the NYSE determines to delist our securities, the delisting could decrease trading in our securities substantially, affect adversely the market liquidity of our securities, decrease the trading price of our securities, increase the volatility of our common stock price, decrease analyst coverage of our securities, decrease investor demand and information available concerning trading prices and volume of our securities and make it more difficult for investors to buy or sell our securities. Delisting could also harm our ability to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms. Because we do not pay dividends, shareholders will benefit from an investment in our common shares only if our common shares appreciate in value. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common shares. For the foreseeable future, it is expected that any earnings generated from our operations will be used to finance the growth of our business, and that no dividends will be paid to holders of our common shares. In addition, our credit facility and rent deferral agreement with HPT generally restrict our ability to declare or pay dividends. Our lease agreements and our credit facility also generally restrict or prohibit us from repurchasing our shares. As a result, the success of an investment in our common shares will depend upon a future increase in the trading value of our common shares. There is no guarantee that our common shares will appreciate in value. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research, or if they publish unfavorable research, about us, our share price and trading volume would likely decline. The trading market for our common shares may be influenced by research and reports, or lack thereof, that industry or securities analysts publish about us, our business or our market. Currently, the number of analyst reports about us is limited. If no additional analysts publish research about us, the trading price and volume of our common shares could decline. If analysts publish research about us that is unfavorable or if analysts who publish research about us now or in the future cease to publish such research regularly our share price and trading volume may decline. Additional future sales of a significant amount of our shares could cause our share price to decline. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common shares by our shareholders in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, may cause the market price of our common shares to decline. As of December 31, 2013, HPT, our former parent company, owned 3,420,000 of our outstanding common shares, representing approximately 9.1% of our outstanding common shares at such date. Additionally, we grant restricted share awards which vest over a period of years to our employees, officers, Directors and others under our share award plan. As those shares vest, the recipients of those restricted share awards may seek to sell those shares in the public market. Increased sales of our common shares by HPT, our employees, officers, Directors or others could cause our share price to decline or make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity related securities in the future. Additionally, from time to time without seeking shareholder approval, we may issue additional common shares, preferred shares and other securities. We may file future shelf registration statements 43 Table of Contents with the SEC that we may use to sell common shares, preferred shares and other securities from time to time in connection with acquisitions or otherwise. Such securities could entitle their holders to greater voting rights or preferences to our common shares, including, without limitation, as to dividends and liquidation rights. To the extent that we are able to grow through acquisitions and are able to pay for such acquisitions with our common shares or other securities convertible into our common shares, the number of outstanding common shares that will be eligible for sale in the future is likely to increase substantially. Persons receiving our shares in connection with these acquisitions may be more likely to sell large quantities of their shares, which may influence the price of our common shares. In addition, the issuance or potential issuance of additional common shares could reduce demand for our common shares or adversely affect the market price for our common shares. To the extent we issue substantial additional common shares or other equity securities, the ownership of our existing shareholders would be diluted and our earnings per share could be reduced. The indenture under which the Senior Notes were issued does not contain financial covenants and does not limit the amount of indebtedness that we may incur. The indenture under which the Senior Notes were issued contains no financial covenants or other provisions that would afford the holders of the Senior Notes any substantial protection in the event we participate in a material transaction. In addition, the indenture does not limit the amount of indebtedness we may incur or our ability to pay dividends, make distributions or repurchase our common shares. As a result, noteholders are not protected under the indenture in the event of a highly leveraged transaction, reorganization, change of control, restructuring, sale of significant amount of assets, merger or similar transaction that may adversely affect them. The Senior Notes are unsecured and effectively subordinated to all of our existing and future secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness. Upon any distribution to our creditors in a bankruptcy, liquidation, reorganization or similar proceeding relating to us or our property, the holders of our secured debt, including the lenders under our credit facility, will be entitled to exercise the remedies available to a secured lender under applicable law and pursuant to the instruments governing such debt and to be paid in full from the assets securing that secured debt before any payment may be made with respect to the Senior Notes. In that event, because the Senior Notes are not secured by any of our assets, it is possible that there will be no assets from which claims of holders of the Senior Notes can be satisfied or, if any assets remain, that the remaining assets will be insufficient to satisfy those claims in full. If the value of such remaining assets is less than the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Senior Notes and accrued interest and all future debt ranking pari passu with the Senior Notes, we will be unable to fully satisfy our obligations under the Senior Notes. In addition, if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under our secured debt, the holders of that secured debt would be entitled to foreclose on our assets securing that secured debt and liquidate those assets. Accordingly, we may not have sufficient funds to pay amounts due on the Senior Notes. As a result, noteholders may lose a portion of or the entire value of their investment in the Senior Notes. Our credit facility is secured by substantially all of the personal property of the borrowers and the guarantors, including a first-priority security interest in 100% of the equity interests of the borrowers and each of their domestic majority owned subsidiaries, 65% of the equity interests of each of the borrowers' foreign majority owned subsidiaries, and all intercompany debt. The amount available to us under our credit facility is determined by reference to a borrowing base calculated based on eligible collateral. At December 31, 2013, this borrowing base calculation provided a total of $130.8 million available for loans and letters of credit under the credit facility. At December 31, 2013, there were no loans outstanding under the credit facility but we had outstanding $44.9 million of letters of credit issued under that facility securing certain purchases, insurance, fuel taxes and other trade obligations. 44 Table of Contents Further, the terms of the Senior Notes permit us to incur additional secured indebtedness. The Senior Notes will be effectively subordinated to any such additional secured indebtedness. An active trading market for the Senior Notes may not be maintained or be liquid. We can give no assurances concerning the liquidity of the market for the Senior Notes, the ability of any investor to sell the Senior Notes, or the price at which investors would be able to sell them. The market for the Senior Notes may not continue or it may not be sufficiently liquid to allow holders to resell any of the Senior Notes. Consequently, investors may not be able to liquidate their investment readily, and lenders may not readily accept the Senior Notes as collateral for loans. The Senior Notes may trade at a discount from their initial issue price or principal amount, depending upon many factors, including prevailing interest rates, the market for similar securities and other factors, including general economic conditions and our financial condition, performance and prospects. Any decline in trading prices, regardless of cause, may adversely affect the liquidity and trading markets for the Senior Notes. We depend upon our subsidiaries for cash flow to service our debt, and the Senior Notes are structurally subordinated to the payment of the indebtedness, lease and other liabilities and any preferred equity of our subsidiaries. We are the sole obligor on the Senior Notes. We derive all of our revenue and cash flow from our subsidiaries and our ability to service our debt, including the Senior Notes, is substantially dependent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and their ability to make cash available to us. In addition, most of our contractual and other obligations are obligations of our subsidiaries and thus structurally senior to our obligations on the Senior Notes. None of our subsidiaries guarantee the Senior Notes. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any amounts due on the Senior Notes, or to make any funds available therefore, whether by dividend, distribution, loan or other payments, and the rights of holders of Senior Notes to benefits from any of the assets of our subsidiaries are structurally subordinated to the claims of our subsidiaries' creditors and any preferred equity holders. As a result, the Senior Notes are structurally subordinated to the prior payment and satisfaction of all of the existing and future debts, liabilities and obligations, including payment obligations under the HPT lease agreements, trade payables and any preferred equity, of our subsidiaries. Any future subsidiary debt or obligation, whether or not secured, or any preferred equity of our subsidiaries will have priority over the Senior Notes. As of December 31, 2013, our subsidiaries had total indebtedness of $44.9 million, consisting solely of letters of credit outstanding under our credit facility under which our subsidiaries are either co-borrowers or guarantors. As of December 31, 2013, our subsidiaries also had deferred rent obligations of $150 million, which are structurally senior to the Senior Notes, and substantial ongoing obligations under our leases. Our deferred rent is due in two installments, $107.1 million will be due and payable on December 31, 2022, and $42.9 million will be due and payable on June 30, 2024. The Senior Notes are not rated. The Senior Notes are not rated by any rating agency. Unrated securities usually trade at a discount to similar rated securities. As a result, the Senior Notes may trade at a price that is lower than they might otherwise trade if rated by a rating agency. It is possible, however, that one or more rating agencies might independently determine to assign a rating to the Senior Notes. In addition, we may elect to issue other securities for which we may seek to obtain a rating. If any ratings are assigned to the Senior Notes in the future or if we issue other securities with a rating, such ratings, if they are lower than market expectations or are subsequently lowered or withdrawn, could adversely affect the market for or the market value of the Senior Notes. 45 Table of Contents Redemption may adversely affect noteholders' return on the Senior Notes. We have the right to redeem some or all of the Senior Notes prior to maturity. We may redeem the Senior Notes at times when prevailing interest rates may be relatively low compared to prevailing rates at the time of issuance of the Senior Notes. Accordingly, noteholders may not be able to reinvest the redemption proceeds in a comparable security at an effective interest rate as high as that of the Senior Notes. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 