ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company's Auditors Have Expressed Doubt About Our Ability To Continue As A Going Concern The independent auditor's report on our financial statements contains explanatory language that substantial doubt exists about our ability to continue as a going concern. The report states that we depend on the continued financial contributions of our executive officers and their ability to execute our business strategy and to generate liquidity from our client engagements. If we are unable to obtain sufficient additional financing in the near term, achieve profitability or achieve client listing obligations, then we would, in all likelihood, experience severe liquidity problems and may have to curtail our operations. If we curtail our operations, we may be placed into bankruptcy or undergo liquidation, the result of which will adversely affect the value of our common shares. We May Be Subject to U.S. Regulation of the Consulting Services We Provide Even though we do not raise any capital for our clients, our services may be viewed as providing investment services. Investment businesses generally are comprehensively and intensively regulated under state and federal securities laws and regulations. Any investigation, litigation or other proceeding undertaken by the SEC or other federal or state regulatory agencies or private parties could necessitate the expenditure of material amounts of Company funds for legal and other costs and could have other materially adverse consequences for the Company, particularly if the Company is subject to fines and penalties for failure to obtain the required licenses or approvals. The Company is not registered as a broker or dealer under the Exchange Act or any other securities law. The Company believes that it is not required to be registered as a broker or dealer, but if the SEC or the securities administrator of any state were to assert that such registration is required, the Company would bear the resulting increased expenses and its activities would be restricted, which could materially and adversely affect the Company's business. 11 The Company has not, and is not expected to, register as an investment adviser or an investment company under the federal Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, the federal Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or under the laws of any state. The Company does not believe that any law requires such a registration. However, particularly with respect to the method it has established of forming wholly owned subsidiaries and taking equity in all of the clients these practices may inadvertently violate the Investment Company Act of 1940 which would require extensively more filings and additional compliance with SEC regulations. If required, however, such a registration could preclude the Company from performing its duties to its clients, which could lead to material adverse effects on the Company and its business, making its business less lucrative. The Company may also be subject to the federal or various state investment advisory acts. The services rendered by the Company may be viewed as providing financial advice even though management believes that any financial advice is not actually provided by the Company but instead is provided by third party financial service firms which are registered. Competition May Negatively Impact Us We will compete with individuals and both large and small investment companies for clients in Asia and our other current and proposed markets. Many of these institutions and individuals are already active in the Asian and American markets and have greater financial and other resources that may be used to compete against us. We expect that, if we are successful and if our markets as a whole have favorable results, competition will increase. We Depend Upon Key Management Personnel and the Loss of Any of Them Would Seriously Disrupt Our Operations The success of our company is largely dependent on the personal efforts of Keith Wong and Norm Klein. The loss of the services of Keith Wong or Norm Klein or other key executives would have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. The Company has not obtained key-man insurance for any of its senior management personnel, which means that the Company will not receive any cash amounts as a result of the disability or death of a member of senior management. In addition, in order for us to undertake our operations as contemplated, it will be necessary for us to locate and hire experienced personnel who are knowledgeable in our business. Our failure to attract and retain such experienced personnel on acceptable terms will have a material adverse impact on our ability to grow our business. Our sole directors and officers have employment agreements which only permit their removal for cause or by mutual agreement of the officer and the Company. As there are no independent directors it will be very difficult to remove either Mr. Wong or Mr. Klein, even if cause exists. The Company Does Not Provide Proprietary Services There is nothing proprietary about the services the Company provides and the Company has no intellectual property or other protection for its services. Any of the Company’s current or future competitors could duplicate the Company’s business model and it would have no legal recourse against them for such actions. We Are Currently Being Audited We are undergoing an audit by the Internal Revenue Service related to employment tax liability for the 2006-2008 tax years, and depending on the outcome of the audit, we may be subject to additional taxes, penalties and restrictions on further business activities or how we account for them. An assessment of additional taxes plus penalties and interest may have a material adverse effect on our performance. 12 Our Common Stock Is Subject To Penny Stock Regulation Our common stock, which is currently quoted for trading on the OTCBB and the OTCQB, may be considered to be a “penny stock” if it does not qualify for one of the exemptions from the definition of “penny stock” under Section 3a51-1 of the Exchange Act, as amended. Our common stock may be a “penny stock” if it meets one or more of the following conditions: (i) the stock trades at a price less than $5 per share; (ii) it is not traded on a “recognized” national exchange; (iii) it is not quoted on the Nasdaq Capital Market, or even if so, has a price less than $5 per share; or (iv) is issued by a company that has been in business less than three years with net tangible assets less than $5 million. The principal result or effect of being designated a “penny stock” is that securities broker-dealers participating in sales of our common stock will be subject to the “penny stock” regulations set forth in Rules 15-2 through 15g-9 promulgated under the Exchange Act. For example, Rule 15g-2 requires broker-dealers dealing in penny stocks to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks and to obtain a manually signed and dated written receipt of the document at least two business days before effecting any transaction in a penny stock for the investor’s account. Moreover, Rule 15g-9 requires broker-dealers in penny stocks to approve the account of any investor for transactions in such stocks before selling any penny stock to that investor. This procedure requires the broker-dealer to: (i) obtain from the investor information concerning his or her financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives; (ii) reasonably determine, based on that information, that transactions in penny stocks are suitable for the investor and that the investor has sufficient knowledge and experience as to be reasonably capable of evaluating the risks of penny stock transactions; (iii) provide the investor with a written statement setting forth the basis on which the broker-dealer made the determination in (ii) above; and (iv) receive a signed and dated copy of such statement from the investor, confirming that it accurately reflects the investor’s financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives. Compliance with these requirements may make it more difficult and time consuming for holders of our common stock to resell their shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them in the market. We Do Not Intend To Pay Cash Dividends. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We may not have sufficient funds to legally pay dividends. Even if funds are legally available to pay dividends, we may nevertheless decide in our sole discretion not to pay dividends. The declaration, payment and amount of any future dividends will be made at the discretion of the Board of Directors, and will depend upon, among other things, the results of our operations, cash flows and financial condition, operating and capital requirements, and other factors our Board of Directors may consider relevant. There is no assurance that we will pay any dividends in the future, and, if dividends are declared, there is no assurance with respect to the amount of any such dividend. Because Our Stock Is Quoted On The OTCBB And OTCQB, Our Shareholders May Have Difficulty Selling Their Stock Or Experience Increased Negative Volatility On The Market Price Of Our Stock. Our common stock is listed on the OTCBB and OTCQB. The OTCBB and QTCQB are often highly illiquid, in part because they do not have a national quotation system by which potential investors can follow the market price of shares except through information received and generated by a limited number of broker-dealers that make markets in particular stocks. There is a greater chance of volatility for securities that trade on the OTCBB and OTCQB as compared to a national exchange or quotation system. This volatility may be caused by a variety of factors, including the lack of readily available price quotations, the absence of consistent administrative supervision of bid and ask quotations, lower trading volume, and market conditions. Our shareholders may experience high fluctuations in the market price and volume of the trading market for our securities. These fluctuations, when they occur, have a negative effect on the market price for our securities. Accordingly, our shareholders may not be able to realize a fair price from their shares when they determine to sell them or may have to hold them for a substantial period of time until the market for our common stock improves. 13 Failure To Achieve And Maintain Effective Internal Controls In Accordance With Section 404 Of The Sarbanes-Oxley Act Could Have A Material Adverse Effect On Our Business And Operating Results. It may be time consuming, difficult and costly for us to develop and implement the additional internal controls, processes and reporting procedures required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We may need to hire additional financial reporting, internal auditing and other finance staff in order to develop and implement appropriate additional internal controls, processes and reporting procedures. If we fail to comply in a timely manner with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act regarding internal control over financial reporting or to remedy any material weaknesses in our internal controls that we may identify, such failure could result in material misstatements in our financial statements, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. In connection with our on-going assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, we may discover "material weaknesses" in our internal controls as defined in standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or the PCAOB. A material weakness is a significant deficiency, or combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. The PCAOB defines "significant deficiency" as a deficiency that results in more than a remote likelihood that a misstatement of the financial statements that is more than inconsequential will not be prevented or detected. In the event a material weakness is identified, we will attempt to employ qualified personnel and adopt and implement policies and procedures to address any material weaknesses we identify. However, the process of designing and implementing effective internal controls is a continuous effort that requires us to anticipate and react to changes in our business and the economic and regulatory environments and to expend significant resources to maintain a system of internal controls that is adequate to satisfy our reporting obligations as a public company. We cannot assure you that we will have the resources to be able to take steps to attempt to remedy any future material weaknesses or that the measures we will take will remediate any material weaknesses that we may identify or that we will implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial process and reporting in the future. Any failure to complete our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, to remediate any material weaknesses that we may identify or to implement new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of the periodic management evaluations of our internal controls and, in the case of a failure to remediate any material weaknesses that we may identify, would adversely affect the annual management reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting that are required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Inadequate internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. We Have A Limited Operating History And Lack Of Profits Which Could Lead To Wide Fluctuations In Our Share Price. The Market Price For Our Common Shares Is Particularly Volatile Given Our Status As A Relatively Unknown Company With A Small And Thinly Traded Public Float. The market for our common shares is characterized by significant price volatility when compared to seasoned issuers, and we expect that our share price will continue to be more volatile than a seasoned issuer for the indefinite future. The volatility in our share price is attributable to a number of factors. First, as noted above, our common shares are sporadically and thinly traded. As a consequence of this lack of liquidity, the trading of relatively small quantities of shares by our shareholders may disproportionately influence the price of those shares in either direction. The price for our shares could, for example, decline precipitously in the event that a large number of our common shares are sold on the market without commensurate demand, as compared to a seasoned issuer which could better absorb those sales without adverse impact on its share price. Secondly, we are a speculative or "risky" investment due to our limited operating history and lack of profits to date. As a consequence of this enhanced risk, more risk-adverse investors may, under the fear of losing all or most of their investment in the event of negative news or lack of progress, be more inclined to sell their shares on the market more quickly and at greater discounts than would be the case with the stock of a seasoned issuer. Many of these factors are beyond our control and may decrease the market price of our common shares, regardless of our operating performance. We cannot make any predictions or projections as to what the prevailing market price for our common shares will be at any time, including as to whether our common shares will sustain their current market prices, or as to what effect that the sale of shares or the availability of common shares for sale at any time will have on the prevailing market price. 14 Shareholders should be aware that, according to SEC Release No. 34-29093, the market for penny stocks has suffered in recent years from patterns of fraud and abuse. Such patterns include (1) control of the market for the security by one or a few broker-dealers that are often related to the promoter or issuer; (2) manipulation of prices through prearranged matching of purchases and sales and false and misleading press releases; (3) boiler room practices involving high-pressure sales tactics and unrealistic price projections by inexperienced sales persons; (4) excessive and undisclosed bid-ask differential and markups by selling broker-dealers; and (5) the wholesale dumping of the same securities by promoters and broker-dealers after prices have been manipulated to a desired level, along with the resulting inevitable collapse of those prices and with consequent investor losses. Our management is aware of the abuses that have occurred historically in the penny stock market. Although we do not expect to be in a position to dictate the behavior of the market or of broker-dealers who participate in the market, management will strive within the confines of practical limitations to prevent the described patterns from being established with respect to our securities. However, the occurrence of these patterns or practices could increase the volatility of our share price. The Company’s Profitability May Be Negatively Impacted Because A Majority Of The Company’s Assets Are Comprised Of Securities That Are Not Highly Liquid. A majority of the Company’s assets are comprised of securities received by the Company as part of its compensation for services rendered and are not highly liquid. There is presently no public market in the majority of the securities that the Company holds, and it is uncertain if such securities will be listed on a securities exchange or if a market for such securities will ever develop. There is no assurance that an alternative exit strategy will be readily available for the Company to realize the fair value of such securities. Accordingly, we are prepared to bear the economic risk of such securities for an indefinite period of time. Compensating the Company’s officers may incentivize them to take additional risk in an attempt to increase the value of the Company’s stock. Due to the Company's lack of cash flows, it has historically compensated its officers in stock rather than paying a cash salary. By compensating these officers in stock, we believe they have a greater incentive to take steps to increase the value of the Company's stock than they would if compensated in cash. As the Company's value is largely based on the value of the equity it receives from its clients, paying the officers using Company stock may incentivize them to take additional risks in an attempt to increase the value of the Company's stock. There could be changes in the policies of the PRC government that may adversely affect our business. Each industry in the People's Republic of China ("PRC") is subject to policies implemented by the PRC government. The PRC government may, for instance, impose control over aspects of our clients' or our business such as distribution of raw materials, product pricing and sales. On the other hand, the PRC government may also make available subsidies or preferential treatment, which could be in the form of tax benefits or favorable financing arrangements. If the raw materials used by our clients or their products become subject to any form of government control, then depending on the nature and extent of the control and our clients' ability to make corresponding adjustments, there could be a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Separately, our business and operating results also could be adversely affected by changes in policies of the Chinese government such as: changes in laws, regulations or the interpretation thereof; confiscatory taxation; restrictions on currency conversion, imports on sources of supplies; or the expropriation or nationalization of private enterprises. Although the Chinese government has been pursuing economic reform policies for approximately two decades to liberalize the economy and introduce free market aspects, there is no assurance that the government will continue to pursue such policies or that such policies may not be significantly altered, especially in the event of a change in leadership, social or political disruption, or other circumstances affecting China's political, economic and social life. 15 Certain political and economic considerations relating to the PRC could adversely affect our company. The PRC is passing from a planned economy to a market economy. The Chinese government has confirmed that economic development will follow a model of market economy under socialism. While the PRC government has pursued economic reforms since its adoption of the open-door policy in 1978, a large portion of the PRC economy is still operating under five-year plans and annual state plans adopted by the government that sets down national economic development goals. Through these plans and other economic measures, such as control on foreign exchange, taxation and restrictions on foreign participation in the domestic market of various industries, the PRC government exerts considerable direct and indirect influence on the economy. Many of the economic reforms are unprecedented or experimental for the PRC government, and are expected to be refined and improved. Other political, economic and social factors can also lead to further readjustment of such reforms. This refining and readjustment process may not necessarily have a positive effect on our operations or future business development. Our operating results may be adversely affected by changes in the PRC's economic and social conditions as well as by changes in the policies of the PRC government, which we may not be able to foresee, such as changes in laws and regulations (or the official interpretation thereof), measures which may be introduced to control inflation, changes in the rate or method of taxation, and imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion. The uncertain application of many PRC laws applicable to us create an uncertain environment for business operations and they could have a negative effect on us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system. Unlike the common law system, such as the legal system used in the United States, the civil law system is based on written statutes in which decided legal cases have little value as precedents. In 1979, the PRC began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and has since introduced many laws and regulations to provide general guidance on economic and business practices in the PRC and to regulate foreign investment. Progress has been made in the promulgation of laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. The promulgation of new laws, changes of existing laws and the abrogation of local regulations by national laws could have a negative impact on our business and business prospects. In addition, as these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent, their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainty. We may have limited legal recourse under PRC laws if disputes arise under our contracts with third parties. The Chinese government has enacted laws and regulations dealing with matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. However, their experience in implementing, interpreting and enforcing these laws and regulations is limited, and our ability to enforce commercial claims or to resolve commercial disputes is unpredictable. If our business ventures are unsuccessful, or other adverse circumstances arise from these transactions, we face the risk that the parties to these ventures may seek ways to terminate the transactions, or may hinder or prevent us from accessing important information regarding the financial and business operations of these acquired companies. The resolution of these matters may be subject to the exercise of considerable discretion by agencies of the Chinese government, and forces unrelated to the legal merits of a particular matter or dispute may influence their determination. Any rights we may have to specific performance, or to seek an injunction under PRC laws, are severely limited, and without a means of recourse by virtue of the Chinese legal system, we may be unable to prevent these situations from occurring. The occurrence of any such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although legislation in China over the past 30 years has significantly improved the protection afforded to various forms of foreign investment and contractual arrangements in China, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively new and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties which could limit the legal protection available to us and foreign investors. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital and could have a material adverse impact on our operations. 16 We must comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. We are required to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits U.S. companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Foreign companies, including some of our competitors, are not subject to these prohibitions. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in mainland China. If our competitors engage in these practices, they may receive preferential treatment from personnel of some companies, giving our competitors an advantage in securing business or from government officials who might give them priority in obtaining new licenses, which would put us at a disadvantage. We have not established formal policies or procedures for prohibiting or monitoring this conduct, and we can not assure you that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties. If we make equity compensation grants to persons who are PRC citizens, they may be required to register with SAFE. We may also face regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our ability to adopt equity compensation plans for our directors and employees and other parties under PRC laws. On April 6, 2007, State Administration of Foreign Exchange of China (the “SAFE”) issued the “Operating Procedures for Administration of Domestic Individuals Participating in the Employee Stock Ownership Plan or Stock Option Plan of An Overseas Listed Company, also known as “Circular 78.” It is not clear whether Circular 78 covers all forms of equity compensation plans or only those which provide for the granting of stock options. For any plans which are so covered and are adopted by a non-PRC listed company, such as our company, after April 6, 2007, Circular 78 requires all participants who are PRC citizens to register with and obtain approvals from SAFE prior to their participation in the plan. In addition, Circular 78 also requires PRC citizens to register with SAFE and make the necessary applications and filings if they participated in an overseas listed company’s covered equity compensation plan prior to April 6, 2007. We believe that the registration and approval requirements contemplated in Circular 78 will be burdensome and time consuming. If it is determined that any of our equity compensation plans are subject to Circular 78, failure to comply with such provisions may subject us and participants of our equity incentive plan who are PRC citizens to fines and legal sanctions and prevent us from being able to grant equity compensation to our PRC employees. In that case, our ability to compensate our employees and directors through equity compensation would be hindered and our business operations may be adversely affected. If relations between the United States and China worsen, our stock price may decrease and we may have difficulty accessing the U.S. capital markets. At various times during recent years, the United States and China have had disagreements over political and economic issues. Controversies may arise in the future between these two countries. Any political or trade controversies between the United States and China could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our clients' ability to access U.S. capital markets. 17 Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of our stock. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of the PRC. Currently, the Renminbi is not a freely convertible currency. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict our clients' ability to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay our fees, to pay dividends, or otherwise satisfy foreign currency denominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from the transaction, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the SAFE by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate governmental authorities is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans and corporate debt obligations denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents our clients or us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy currency demands, we or our clients may not be able to pay certain of our or their expenses as they come due. The fluctuation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our operations. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in the PRC's political and economic conditions. Any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues and financial condition. For example, to the extent that we or our clients need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our or their operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi, the U.S. dollar equivalent of the Renminbi we convert would be reduced. Any significant devaluation of Renminbi may reduce our operation costs in U.S. dollars but may also reduce our earnings in U.S. dollars. In addition, the depreciation of significant U.S. dollar denominated assets could result in a charge to our income statement and a reduction in the value of these assets. Commencing July 21, 2005, China has adopted a managed floating exchange rate regime based on market demand and supply with reference to a basket of currencies. The exchange rate of the US dollar against the RMB was adjusted from approximately RMB 8.28 per US dollar to approximately RMB 8.11 per US dollar on July 21, 2005. Since then, the PBOC administers and regulates the exchange rate of the US dollar against RMB taking into account demand and supply of RMB, as well as domestic and foreign economic and financial conditions. In addition, there can be no assurance we will be able to obtain sufficient foreign exchange to pay dividends or satisfy other foreign exchange requirements in the future and we currently do not intend to pay dividends. It may be difficult to effect service of process and enforcement of legal judgments upon our company and our officers and directors because some of them reside outside the United States. Since part of our operations are presently based in China, service of process on our business and officers may be difficult to effect within the United States. Also, some of our assets are located outside the United States and any judgment obtained in the United States against us may not be enforceable outside the United States. We have appointed Keith Wong, our Chief Executive Officer and President, as our agent to receive service of process in any action against our company in the United States. 18 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As a smaller reporting company, we are not required to provide Item 1B disclosure. 