Item 1A. Risk Factors This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, such as statements of our objectives, expectations and intentions. The cautionary statements made in this report are applicable to all forward-looking statements wherever they appear in this report. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed herein. In addition to the risks discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” our business is subject to the risks set forth below. We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves certain risks and uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. The weakness in the U.S. and international economies could negatively affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The weakness in the U.S. and international economies have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in credit, equity and fixed income markets. There could be a number of follow-on effects from these economic developments on our business, including decreased customer demand; decreased customer confidence; and insolvency of customers. In addition, access to capital and financing may be an important aspect of our acquisition strategy. If we do not have sufficient access to capital or obtain financing our future potential acquisitions may be at risk and we may be unable to execute our growth strategy. Any of these events, or any other events caused by the weakness in the U.S. and international economies, may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. 9 If we are unable to manage our future growth efficiently, our business, revenues and profitability may suffer. We anticipate that continued expansion of our business will require us to address potential market opportunities. For example, we may need to expand the size of our research and development, sales, corporate finance or operations staff. There can be no assurance that our infrastructure will be sufficiently flexible and adaptable to manage our projected growth or that we will have sufficient resources, human or otherwise, to sustain such growth. If we are unable to adequately address these additional demands on our resources, our profitability and growth might suffer. Also, if we continue to expand our operations, management might not be effective in expanding our physical facilities and our systems, procedures or controls might not be adequate to support such expansion. Our inability to manage our growth could harm our business and decrease our revenues. Our revenue and quarterly results may fluctuate, which could adversely affect our stock price. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results that may be caused by many factors. These factors include: · changes in demand for our products; · introduction, enhancement or announcement of products by us or our competitors; · market acceptance of our new products; · the growth rates of certain market segments in which we compete; · size and timing of significant orders; · budgeting cycles of customers; · mix of products and services sold; · changes in the level of operating expenses; · completion or announcement of acquisitions; and · general economic conditions in regions in which we conduct business. Because most of our licenses are renewable on an annual basis, a reduction in our license renewal rate could reduce our revenue. Our customers have no obligation to renew their annual subscription licenses, and some customers have elected not to do so. Our license renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including customer dissatisfaction with our products and services, our failure to update our products to maintain their attractiveness in the market, or constraints or changes in budget priorities faced by our customers. A decline in license renewal rates could cause our revenue to decline which would have a material adverse effect on our operations. We face intense and growing competition, which could result in price reductions, reduced operating margins and loss of market share. We operate in a highly competitive marketplace and generally encounter intense competition to create and maintain demand for our services and to obtain service contracts. If we are unable to successfully compete for new business and license renewals, our revenue growth and operating margins may decline. The market for our iAPPS product suite (Content Manager, Analyzer, eCommerce, Marketier) and web development services are competitive and rapidly changing. Barriers to entry in such markets are relatively low. With the introduction of new technologies and market entrants, we expect competition to intensify in the future. Some of our principal competitors offer their products at a lower price, which may result in pricing pressures. Such pricing pressures and increased competition generally could result in reduced sales, reduced margins or the failure of our product and service offerings to achieve or maintain more widespread market acceptance. The web development/services market is highly fragmented with a large number of competitors and potential competitors. Our prominent public company competitors are Open Text, Oracle (Art Technology Group), Digital River, GSI Commerce, Adobe (Omniture) and Sapient. We face competition from customers and potential customers who develop their own applications internally. We also face competition from potential competitors that are substantially larger than we are and who have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, and established direct and indirect channels of distribution. As a result, they are able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. We will not be able to maintain our listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market if we are unable to satisfy NASDAQ’s minimum bid price requirements of $1.00 per share. We are currently not in compliance with the requirements for listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market. We are required to meet certain financial criteria in order to maintain our listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market. One such requirement is that we maintain a minimum closing bid price of at least $1.00 per share for our common stock. Because our stock traded below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive business days, on September 22, 2011, the NASDAQ Stock Market notified us that we are no longer in compliance with Marketplace Rule 5550(a)(2). We were provided 180 calendar days, or until March 20, 2012, to regain compliance with the minimum closing bid price requirement. In accordance with Marketplace Rule 5810(c)(3)(A), we can regain compliance if the closing bid price of our common stock meets or exceeds $1.00 per share for at least 10 consecutive business days. 10 If we are unable to demonstrate compliance by March 20, 2012, our shares of common stock will be subject to delisting. At that point, the NASDAQ staff will determine whether we meet the NASDAQ Capital Market initial listing criteria, except for the minimum bid price requirement. If NASDAQ determines that we meet the initial listing criteria, the NASDAQ staff will grant us an additional 180 calendar day compliance period. If we are not eligible for an additional compliance period, the NASDAQ staff will provide written notice that our securities will be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. The delisting of our common stock could have a negative effect on the market price for our shares. If our common stock is delisted from NASDAQ it may be traded on the OTCQX or the OTC Bulletin Board which may limit the market for our stock and affect our ability to raise capital. We are currently not in compliance with the requirements for listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market. If our common stock is delisted from NASDAQ,we will apply to have our common stock quoted on the OTCQX, the world’s largest interdealer quotation system, which is operated by OTC Market Groups, Inc. Our stock may also be traded on the OTC Bulletin Board. There may be a limited market for our common stock if it is quoted on the OTCQX or the OTC Bulletin Board. Trading in our stock may become more difficult and our share price could decrease. Specifically, you may not be able to resell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid. In addition, the delisting of our common stock from NASDAQ may impair our ability to raise additional capital due to the less liquid nature of the OTCQX and OTC Bulletin Board markets. While we cannot guarantee that we would be able to complete an equity financing on acceptable terms, or at all, we believe that dilution from any equity financing while our shares are quoted on an over-the-counter market would likely be substantially greater than if we were to complete a financing while our common stock is traded on a national securities exchange. Further, if our common stock is not traded on an exchange, we will no longer be eligible to use short-form registration statements on Form S-3 for the registration of our securities, which could impair our ability to raise additional capital as needed. There is a limited market for our common stock which may make it more difficult for you to sell your stock and which may reduce the market price of our common stock. In fiscal 2011 our common stock on average traded less than 15,000 shares a day and in fiscal 2011 a total of 4.4 million shares of our common stock traded. The trading volume of our shares of common stock is low when compared to most NASDAQ listed companies. The low trading volume of our common stock may impair the ability of holders of our common stock to sell their shares at the time they wish to sell them or at a price that they consider reasonable. The low trading volume may also reduce the fair market value of the shares of our common stock. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the price of our common stock will ever reflect our actual value. There can be no assurance that the daily trading volume of our common stock will increase or improve either now or in the future. The market price of our common stock is volatile which could adversely affect your investment in our common stock. The market price of our common stock is volatile and could fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including, without limitation: as a result of the risk factors listed in this annual report on Form 10-K; actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; and general economic and industry conditions. If our products fail to perform properly due to undetected errors or similar problems, our business could suffer, and we could face product liability exposure. We develop and sell complex WEB software which may contain undetected errors, or bugs. Such errors can be detected at any point in a product’s life cycle, but are frequently found after introduction of new software or enhancements to existing software. We continually introduce new products and new versions of our products. Despite internal testing and testing by current and potential customers, our current and future products may contain serious defects. If we detect any errors before we ship a product, we might have to delay product shipment for an extended period of time while we address the problem. We might not discover software errors that affect our new or current products or enhancements until after they are deployed, and we may need to provide enhancements to correct such errors. Therefore, it is possible that, despite our testing, errors may occur in our software. These errors could result in the following: · harm to our reputation; · lost sales; 11 · delays in commercial release; · product liability claims; · contractual disputes; · negative publicity; · delays in or loss of market acceptance of our products; · license terminations or renegotiations; or · unexpected expenses and diversion of resources to remedy errors. Furthermore, our customers may use our software together with products from other companies. As a result, when problems occur, it might be difficult to identify the source of the problem. Even when our software does not cause these problems, the existence of these errors might cause us to incur significant costs, divert the attention of our technical personnel from our product development efforts, impact our reputation, or cause significant customer relations problems. Technology and customer requirements evolve rapidly in our industry, and if we do not continue to develop new products and enhance our existing products in response to these changes, our business could suffer. We will need to continue to enhance our products in order to maintain our competitive position. We may not be successful in developing and marketing enhancements to our products on a timely basis, and any enhancements we develop may not adequately address the changing needs of the marketplace. Overlaying the risks associated with our existing products and enhancements are ongoing technological developments and rapid changes in customer requirements. Our future success will depend upon our ability to develop and introduce in a timely manner new products that take advantage of technological advances and respond to new customer requirements. The development of new products is increasingly complex and uncertain, which increases the risk of delays. We may not be successful in developing new products and incorporating new technology on a timely basis, and any new products may not adequately address the changing needs of the marketplace. Failure to develop new products and product enhancements that meet market needs in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights, our ability to compete in the marketplace may be substantially reduced. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our competitors could use our intellectual property to market products similar to our products, which could decrease demand for such products, thus decreasing our revenue. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements, third-party non-disclosure agreements and other contractual measures, to protect our intellectual property rights. These protections may not be adequate to prevent our competitors from copying or reverse-engineering our products. Our competitors may independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. The protective mechanisms we include in our products may not be sufficient to prevent unauthorized copying. Existing copyright laws afford only limited protection for our intellectual property rights and may not protect such rights in the event competitors independently develop similar products. In addition, the laws of some countries in which our products are or may be licensed do not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and litigation could become necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Any litigation could be time consuming and expensive to prosecute or resolve, result in substantial diversion of management attention and resources, and materially harm our business or financial condition. If a third party asserts that we infringe upon its proprietary rights, we could be required to redesign our products, pay significant royalties or enter into license agreements. Claims of infringement are becoming increasingly common as the software industry develops and as related legal protections, including patents, are applied to software products. Although we do not believe that our products infringe on the rights of third parties, a third party may assert that our technology or technologies of entities we acquire violates its intellectual property rights. As the number of software products in our markets increases and the functionality of these products further overlap, we believe that infringement claims will become more common. Any claims against us, regardless of their merit, could: · be expensive and time consuming to defend; · result in negative publicity; · force us to stop licensing our products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; · require us to redesign our products; · divert management’s attention and our other resources; or · require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. 12 We believe that any successful challenge to our use of a trademark or domain name could substantially diminish our ability to conduct business in a particular market or jurisdiction and thus decrease our revenues and result in possible losses to our business. If the security of our software, in particular the hosted Internet solutions products we have developed, is breached, our business and reputation could suffer. Fundamental to the use of our products is the secure collection, storage and transmission of confidential information. Third parties may attempt to breach our security or that of our customers and their databases. We might be liable to our customers for any breach in such security, and any breach could harm our customers, our business and reputation. Any imposition of liability, particularly liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of insurance coverage, could harm our reputation, business and operating results. Computers, including those that utilize our software, are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions, delays or loss of data. We might be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect further against security breaches or to rectify problems caused by any security breach, which, in turn could divert funds available for corporate growth and expansion or future acquisitions. We are dependent upon our management team, and the loss of any of these individuals could harm our business. We are dependent on the efforts of our key management personnel. The loss of any of our key management personnel, or our inability to recruit and train additional key management and other personnel in a timely manner, could materially and adversely affect our business, operations and future prospects. We do not maintain a key man insurance policy covering any of our employees. In addition, in the event that Thomas Massie, our founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, is terminated by us without cause, he is entitled to receive severance payments equal to three years’ total compensation, including bonus amounts. In the event we are required to pay the severance payments to Mr. Massie, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the fiscal quarter and year in which such payments are made. Because competition for highly qualified personnel is intense, we might not be able to attract and retain the employees we need to support our planned growth. We will need to increase the size and maintain the quality of our sales force, software development staff and professional services organization to execute our growth plans. To meet our objectives, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel with specialized skill sets. Competition for qualified personnel can be intense, and we might not be successful in attracting and retaining them. Our ability to maintain and expand our sales, product development and professional services teams will depend on our ability to recruit, train and retain top quality people with advanced skills who understand sales to, and the specific needs of, our target customers. For these reasons, we have experienced, and we expect to again experience in the future, challenges in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications for our business. In addition to hiring services personnel to meet our needs, we may also engage additional third-party consultants as contractors, which could have a negative impact on our financial results. If we are unable to hire or retain qualified personnel, or if newly hired personnel fail to develop the necessary skills or reach productivity slower than anticipated, it would be more difficult for us to sell our products and services, and we could experience a shortfall in revenue and not achieve our planned growth. Future acquisitions may be difficult to integrate into our existing operations, may disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or divert management’s attention. We have acquired multiple businesses since our inception in 2000. A key element of our growth and market share expansion strategy is the pursuit of additional acquisitions in the fragmented web application development industry in the future. These acquisitions could be expensive, disrupt our ongoing business and distract our management and employees. If we make an acquisition, we could have difficulty integrating the acquired technology, employees or operations. In addition, the key personnel of the acquired company may choose not to work for us. Acquisitions also involve the risk of potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired business. Our contracts and subcontracts with the U.S. federal government contain certain provisions that may be unfavorable to us and subject us to government audits, which could materially harm our business and results of operations. Our contracts and subcontracts with the U.S. federal government subject us to certain risks and give the U.S. federal government rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts, including rights that allow the U.S. federal government to: · terminate contracts for convenience, in whole or in part, at any time and for any reason; · reduce or modify contracts or subcontracts if its requirements or budgetary constraints change; · cancel multi-year contracts and related orders if funds for contract performance for any subsequent year become unavailable; and · claim certain rights in products provided by us. 13 Our subcontracts with prime contractors to the U.S. federal government do not contain a limitation of liability provision, creating a risk of responsibility for direct and consequential damages. Several of those subcontracts hold the prime contractor harmless against liability that stems from our work and do not contain a limitation of liability. These provisions could cause substantial liability for us, especially given the use to which our products may be put. In addition, we are subject to audits by the U.S. federal government as part of routine audits of government contracts. As part of an audit, these agencies may review our performance on contracts, cost structures and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. If any of our charges are found to be allocated improperly to a specific contract, the charges may not be reimbursed and any charges already reimbursed for such contract may have to be refunded. Accordingly, an audit could result in a material adjustment to our revenue and results of operations. Moreover, if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from doing business with the government. If any of the foregoing were to occur, or if the U.S. federal government or its prime contractors otherwise ceased doing business with us or decreased the amount of business with us, our business and operating results could be materially harmed and the value of your investment in our common stock could be impaired. Some of our contracts with the U.S. federal government allow the use of inventions developed under the contracts and to disclose technical data to third parties, which could harm our ability to compete. Some of our contracts allow the U.S. federal government rights to use, or have others use, intellectual property developed under those contracts on behalf of the government. Some of the contracts allow the federal government to disclose technical data without constraining the recipient in how that data is used. The ability of third parties to use intellectual property for government purposes creates the possibility that the government could attempt to establish additional sources for the products we provide that stem from these contracts. The potential that the government may release some of the technical data without constraint creates the possibility that third parties may be able to use this data to compete with us in the commercial sector. As a contractor and subcontractor to the U.S. federal government, we are subject to extensive U.S. federal government regulation, and our failure to comply with applicable regulations could subject us to penalties that may restrict our ability to conduct our business. As a contractor and subcontractor to the U.S. federal government, we are subject to, and must comply with, various government regulations that impact our operating costs, profit margins and the internal organization and operation of our business. Also, we need special clearances to continue working on and advancing certain of our projects with the U.S. federal government. Obtaining and maintaining security clearances for employees involves a lengthy process, and it is difficult to identify, recruit and retain employees who already hold security clearances. If our employees are unable to obtain security clearances in a timely manner, or at all, or if our employees who hold security clearances are unable to maintain the clearances or terminate employment with us, then a customer requiring classified work could terminate the contract or decide not to renew it upon its expiration. In addition, we expect that many of the contracts on which we will bid will require us to demonstrate our ability to obtain facility security clearances and employ personnel with specified types of security clearances. To the extent we are not able to obtain or retain facility security clearances or engage employees with the required security clearances for a particular contract, we may not be able to bid on or win new contracts, or effectively rebid on expiring contracts. Our failure to comply with applicable regulations, rules and approvals could result in the imposition of penalties, the loss of our government contracts or our suspension or debarment from contracting with the federal government generally, any of which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increasing government regulation could affect our business and may adversely affect our financial condition. We are subject not only to regulations applicable to businesses generally, but also to laws and regulations directly applicable to electronic commerce. Although there are currently few such laws and regulations, state, federal and foreign governments may adopt laws and regulations applicable to our business. Any such legislation or regulation could dampen the growth of the Internet and decrease its acceptance. If such a decline occurs, companies may choose in the future not to use our products and services. Any new laws or regulations in the following areas could affect our business: · user privacy; · the pricing and taxation of goods and services offered over the Internet; 14 · the content of websites; · copyrights; · consumer protection, including the potential application of “do not call” registry requirements on customers and consumer backlash in general to direct marketing efforts of customers; · the online distribution of specific material or content over the Internet; or · the characteristics and quality of products and services offered over the Internet. We have never paid dividends and we do not anticipate paying dividends in the future. We have never paid cash dividends and do not believe that we will pay any cash dividends on our common stock in the future. Since we have no plan to pay cash dividends, an investor would only realize income from his investment in our shares if there is a rise in the market price of our common stock, which is uncertain and unpredictable. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not required. 15 