Item 1A. Risk Factors This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, such as statements of our objectives, expectations and intentions. The cautionary statements made in this report are applicable to all forward-looking statements wherever they appear in this report. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed herein. In addition to the risks discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” our business is subject to the risks set forth below. We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves certain risks and uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. The weakness in the U.S. and international economies could negatively affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our business, results of operations and financial condition depend in part on international economic conditions. The prolonged downturn in the U.S. and international economies have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in credit, equity and fixed income markets. Both the severity and duration of the downturn in U.S. and international economies are unknown and outside of our control. The impact of these economic conditions on our business may include decreased customer demand; decreased customer confidence; longer sales cycles; delayed payments or difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; decreased margins; and insolvency of customers. Any of these events, or any other events caused by the weakness in the U.S. and international economies, may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Stress in the global financial system may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition in ways that may be hard to predict or to defend against. Recent events in the financial markets have demonstrated that businesses and industries throughout the world are very tightly connected to each other. Thus, financial developments which may appear unrelated to our business or industry may adversely affect us over the course of time. For example, material increases in LIBOR or other applicable interest rate benchmarks may increase the debt payment costs for our credit facilities. Credit contraction in financial markets may hurt our ability to access credit in the event that we identify an acquisition opportunity or require significant access to credit for other reasons. Similarly, volatility in our stock price due to seemingly unrelated financial developments could hurt our ability to raise capital for the financing of acquisitions or other reasons. Any of these events, or any other events caused by stress in world financial markets, may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition and prevent us from executing our growth strategy. If we are unable to manage our future growth efficiently, our business, revenues and profitability may suffer. We anticipate that continued expansion of our business will require us to address potential market opportunities. For example, we may need to expand the size of our research and development, sales, corporate finance or operations staff. There can be no assurance that our infrastructure will be sufficiently flexible and adaptable to manage our projected growth or that we will have sufficient resources, human or otherwise, to sustain such growth. If we are unable to adequately address these additional demands on our resources, our profitability and growth might suffer. Also, if we continue to expand our operations, management might not be effective in expanding our physical facilities and our systems, procedures or controls might not be adequate to support such expansion. Our inability to manage our growth could harm our business and decrease our revenues. 9 Our revenue and quarterly results may fluctuate, which could adversely affect our stock price. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results that may be caused by many factors. These factors include: · changes in demand for our products; · introduction, enhancement or announcement of products by us or our competitors; · market acceptance of our new products; · the growth rates of certain market segments in which we compete; · size and timing of significant orders; · budgeting cycles of customers; · mix of products and services sold; · changes in the level of operating expenses; · completion or announcement of acquisitions; and · general economic conditions in regions in which we conduct business. The length of our sales cycle can fluctuate significantly which could result in significant fluctuations in license revenues being recognized from quarter to quarter. The decision by a customer to purchase our products often involves the development of a complex implementation plan across a customer’s business. This process often requires a significant commitment of resources both by prospective customers and us. Given the significant investment and commitment of resources required in order to implement our software, it may take several months, or even several quarters, for marketing opportunities to materialize. If a customer's decision to purchase our products is delayed or if the installation of our products takes longer than originally anticipated, the date on which we may recognize revenues from these sales would be delayed. Such delays and fluctuations could cause our revenues to be lower than expected in a particular period and we may not be able to adjust our costs quickly enough to offset such lower revenue, potentially negatively impacting our results of operations. Because most of our licenses are renewable on an annual basis, a reduction in our license renewal rate could reduce our revenue. Our customers have no obligation to renew their annual subscription licenses, and some customers have elected not to do so. Our license renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including customer dissatisfaction with our products and services, our failure to update our products to maintain their attractiveness in the market, or constraints or changes in budget priorities faced by our customers. A decline in license renewal rates could cause our revenue to decline which would have a material adverse effect on our operations. We face intense and growing competition, which could result in price reductions, reduced operating margins and loss of market share. We operate in a highly competitive marketplace and generally encounter intense competition to create and maintain demand for our services and to obtain service contracts. If we are unable to successfully compete for new business and license renewals, our revenue growth and operating margins may decline. The market for our iAPPS platform (Content Manager, Analyzer, eCommerce, Marketier) and web development services are competitive and rapidly changing. Barriers to entry in such markets are relatively low. With the introduction of new technologies and market entrants, we expect competition to intensify in the future. Some of our principal competitors offer their products at a lower price, which may result in pricing pressures. Such pricing pressures and increased competition generally could result in reduced sales, reduced margins or the failure of our product and service offerings to achieve or maintain more widespread market acceptance. The web development/services market is highly fragmented with a large number of competitors and potential competitors. Our prominent public company competitors are Open Text, Oracle (Art Technology Group), Demandware, Digital River, GSI Commerce, Adobe (Omniture) and Sapient. We face competition from customers and potential customers who develop their own applications internally. We also face competition from potential competitors that are substantially larger than we are and who have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, and established direct and indirect channels of distribution. As a result, they are able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. 10 Our growth depends on our relationships with certain strategic partners, and a reduction in the cooperative efforts from our partners could materially impact our revenues. A significant portion of our business strategy relies on the continued cooperation of our strategic partners to provide sales opportunities as well as the establishment of new strategic relationships. Our licensing revenue could be adversely impacted if there is a reduction in partner cooperation or sales efforts. Our success will depend, in part, upon our ability to maintain our existing relationships with strategic partners and establish new relationships. The cooperation and performance of strategic partners is outside of our control, and we are unable to predict the extent to which these relationships will be successful. There may be a limited market for our common stock which may make it more difficult for you to sell your stock and which may reduce the market price of our common stock. The average shares traded per day in fiscal 2012 was approximately 50,000 shares per day. In fiscal 2011 our average shares traded per day was less than 17,000. If our average trading volume of our common stock were to decrease it may impair the ability of holders of our common stock to sell their shares at the time they wish to sell them or at a price that they consider reasonable. The low trading volume may also reduce the fair market value of the shares of our common stock. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the price of our common stock will ever reflect our actual value. There can be no assurance that the daily trading volume of our common stock will increase or improve either now or in the future. The market price of our common stock is volatile which could adversely affect your investment in our common stock. The market price of our common stock is volatile and could fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including, without limitation: as a result of the risk factors listed in this annual report on Form 10-K; actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; and general economic and industry conditions. In fiscal 2012, the closing price of or common stock as reported by NASDAQ was between $.47 and $3.24. If our products fail to perform properly due to undetected errors or similar problems, our business could suffer, and we could face product liability exposure. We develop and sell complex WEM software which may contain undetected errors, or bugs. Such errors can be detected at any point in a product’s life cycle, but are frequently found after introduction of new software or enhancements to existing software. We continually introduce new products and new versions of our products. Despite internal testing and testing by current and potential customers, our current and future products may contain serious defects. If we detect any errors before we ship a product, we might have to delay product shipment for an extended period of time while we address the problem. We might not discover software errors that affect our new or current products or enhancements until after they are deployed, and we may need to provide enhancements to correct such errors. Therefore, it is possible that, despite our testing, errors may occur in our software. These errors could result in the following: · harm to our reputation; · lost sales; · delays in commercial release; · product liability claims; · contractual disputes; · negative publicity; · delays in or loss of market acceptance of our products; · license terminations or renegotiations; or · unexpected expenses and diversion of resources to remedy errors. Furthermore, our customers may use our software together with products from other companies. As a result, when problems occur, it might be difficult to identify the source of the problem. Even when our software does not cause these problems, the existence of these errors might cause us to incur significant costs, divert the attention of our technical personnel from our product development efforts, impact our reputation, or cause significant customer relations problems. Technology and customer requirements evolve rapidly in our industry, and if we do not continue to develop new products and enhance our existing products in response to these changes, our business could suffer. We will need to continue to enhance our products in order to maintain our competitive position. We may not be successful in developing and marketing enhancements to our products on a timely basis, and any enhancements we develop may not adequately address the changing needs of the marketplace. Overlaying the risks associated with our existing products and enhancements are ongoing technological developments and rapid changes in customer requirements. Our future success will depend upon our ability to develop and introduce in a timely manner new products that take advantage of technological advances and respond to new customer requirements. The development of new products is increasingly complex and uncertain, which increases the risk of delays. We may not be successful in developing new products and incorporating new technology on a timely basis, and any new products may not adequately address the changing needs of the marketplace. Failure to develop new products and product enhancements that meet market needs in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 11 If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights, our ability to compete in the marketplace may be substantially reduced. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our competitors could use our intellectual property to market products similar to our products, which could decrease demand for such products, thus decreasing our revenue. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements, third-party non-disclosure agreements and other contractual measures, to protect our intellectual property rights. These protections may not be adequate to prevent our competitors from copying or reverse-engineering our products. Our competitors may independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. The protective mechanisms we include in our products may not be sufficient to prevent unauthorized copying. Existing copyright laws afford only limited protection for our intellectual property rights and may not protect such rights in the event competitors independently develop similar products. In addition, the laws of some countries in which our products are or may be licensed do not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and litigation could become necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Any litigation could be time consuming and expensive to prosecute or resolve, result in substantial diversion of management attention and resources, and materially harm our business or financial condition. If a third party asserts that we infringe upon its proprietary rights, we could be required to redesign our products, pay significant royalties or enter into license agreements. Claims of infringement are becoming increasingly common as the software industry develops and as related legal protections, including patents, are applied to software products. Although we do not believe that our products infringe on the rights of third parties, a third party may assert that our technology or technologies of entities we acquire violates its intellectual property rights. As the number of software products in our markets increases and the functionality of these products further overlap, we believe that infringement claims will become more common. Any claims against us, regardless of their merit, could: · be expensive and time consuming to defend; · result in negative publicity; · force us to stop licensing our products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; · require us to redesign our products; · divert management’s attention and our other resources; or · require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We believe that any successful challenge to our use of a trademark or domain name could substantially diminish our ability to conduct business in a particular market or jurisdiction and thus decrease our revenues and result in possible losses to our business. If the security of our software, in particular the hosted Internet solutions products we have developed, is breached, our business and reputation could suffer. Fundamental to the use of our products is the secure collection, storage and transmission of confidential information. Third parties may attempt to breach our security or that of our customers and their databases. We might be liable to our customers for any breach in such security, and any breach could harm our customers, our business and reputation. Any imposition of liability, particularly liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of insurance coverage, could harm our reputation, business and operating results. Computers, including those that utilize our software, are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions, delays or loss of data. We might be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect further against security breaches or to rectify problems caused by any security breach, which, in turn could divert funds available for corporate growth and expansion or future acquisitions. We are dependent upon our management team, and the loss of any of these individuals could harm our business. We are dependent on the efforts of our key management personnel. The loss of any of our key management personnel, or our inability to recruit and train additional key management and other personnel in a timely manner, could materially and adversely affect our business, operations and future prospects. We do not maintain a key man insurance policy covering any of our employees. In addition, in the event that Thomas Massie, our founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, is terminated by us without cause, he is entitled to receive severance payments equal to three years’ total compensation, including bonus amounts. In the event we are required to pay the severance payments to Mr. Massie, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the fiscal quarter and year in which such payments are made. 12 Because competition for highly qualified personnel is intense, we might not be able to attract and retain the employees we need to support our planned growth. We will need to increase the size and maintain the quality of our sales force, software development staff and professional services organization to execute our growth plans. To meet our objectives, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel with specialized skill sets. Competition for qualified personnel can be intense, and we might not be successful in attracting and retaining them. Our ability to maintain and expand our sales, product development and professional services teams will depend on our ability to recruit, train and retain top quality people with advanced skills who understand sales to, and the specific needs of, our target customers. For these reasons, we have experienced, and we expect to again experience in the future, challenges in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications for our business. In addition to hiring services personnel to meet our needs, we may also engage additional third-party consultants as contractors, which could have a negative impact on our financial results. If we are unable to hire or retain qualified personnel, or if newly hired personnel fail to develop the necessary skills or reach productivity slower than anticipated, it would be more difficult for us to sell our products and services, and we could experience a shortfall in revenue and not achieve our planned growth. Future acquisitions may be difficult to integrate into our existing operations, may disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value, divert management’s attention, or negatively affect our operating results. We have acquired multiple businesses since our inception in 2000. A key element of our growth and market share expansion strategy is the pursuit of additional acquisitions in the fragmented web application development industry in the future. These future acquisitions may create risks such as: (i) the need to integrate and manage the businesses and products acquired with our own business and products, (ii) additional demands on our resources, systems, procedures and controls, (iii) disruption of our ongoing business, (iv) unknown liabilities associated with the acquired businesses, and (v) diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. In addition, future acquisitions could involve substantial investment of funds or financings by issuance of debt or equity securities and could result in one-time charges and expenses and have the potential to either dilute the interests of existing shareholders or result in the issuance of or assumption of debt. Any such acquisition may not be successful in generating revenues, income or other returns to us, and the resources committed to such activities will not be available to us for other purposes. Moreover, if we are unable to access capital markets on acceptable terms or at all, we may not be able to consummate acquisitions, or may have to do so on the basis of a less than optimal capital structure. Our inability to take advantage of growth opportunities for our business or to address risks associated with acquisitions or investments in businesses may negatively affect our operating results. Additionally, any impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets acquired in an acquisition or in an investment, or charges to earnings associated with any acquisition or investment activity, may materially reduce our earnings which, in turn, may have an adverse material effect on the price of our common stock. Increasing government regulation could affect our business and may adversely affect our financial condition. We are subject not only to regulations applicable to businesses generally, but also to laws and regulations directly applicable to electronic commerce. Although there are currently few such laws and regulations, state, federal and foreign governments may adopt laws and regulations applicable to our business. Any such legislation or regulation could dampen the growth of the Internet and decrease its acceptance. If such a decline occurs, companies may choose in the future not to use our products and services. Any new laws or regulations in the following areas could affect our business: · user privacy; · the pricing and taxation of goods and services offered over the Internet; · the content of websites; · copyrights; · consumer protection, including the potential application of “do not call” registry requirements on customers and consumer backlash in general to direct marketing efforts of customers; · the online distribution of specific material or content over the Internet; or · the characteristics and quality of products and services offered over the Internet. We have never paid dividends and we do not anticipate paying dividends in the future. We have never paid cash dividends and do not believe that we will pay any cash dividends on our common stock in the future. Since we have no plan to pay cash dividends, an investor would only realize income from his investment in our shares if there is a rise in the market price of our common stock, which is uncertain and unpredictable. 13 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not required. 