ITEM 1A. Risk Factors RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMPANY We have a limited operating history and expect significant operating losses for the next few years. We are a company with a limited operating history and have incurred substantial losses and negative cash flow from operations through the year ended December 31, 2013.Our cash flow from operations may not be consistent from period to period, our biomedicine business has not yet generated any revenue, and we may continue to incur losses and negative cash flow in future periods, particularly within the next several years. Our biomedicine product development programs are based on novel technologies and are inherently risky. We are subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of products based on new biomedical technologies. The novel nature of these cell-based therapies creates significant challenges in regard to product development and optimization, manufacturing, government regulation, third party reimbursement, and market acceptance. For example, the pathway to regulatory approval for cell-based therapies may be more complex than the pathway for conventional pharmaceuticals or other medical technologies, or may require more time than we anticipate. These challenges may prevent us from developing and commercializing products on a timely or profitable basis or at all. We may be unable to obtain or maintain patent protection for our products and product candidates, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our commercial success will depend, in part, on obtaining and maintaining patent protection for new technologies, product candidates, products and processes and successfully defending such patents against third party challenges. To that end, we file patent applications, and have been issued patents, that are intended to cover certain methods and uses relating to stem cells including our four cellular technology platforms (haMPC, huMPC, TC-DC and MNP/NP). The patent positions of biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions and recent court decisions have introduced significant uncertainty regarding the strength of patents in the industry. Moreover, the legal systems of some countries do not favor the aggressive enforcement of patents and may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as they would, for instance, under the laws of the United States. Any of the issued patents we own or license may be challenged by third parties and held to be invalid, unenforceable or with a narrower or different scope of coverage that what we currently believe, effectively reducing or eliminating protection we believed we had against competitors with similar products or technologies. If we ultimately engage in and lose any such patent disputes, we could be subject to competition and/or significant liabilities, we could be required to enter into third party licenses or we could be required to cease using the disputed technology or product. In addition, even if such licenses are available, the terms of any license requested by a third party could be unacceptable to us. The claims of any current or future patents that may issue or be licensed to us may not contain claims that are sufficiently broad to prevent others from utilizing the covered technologies and thus may provide us with little commercial protection against competing products. Consequently, our competitors may independently develop competing products that do not infringe our patents or other intellectual property. To the extent a competitor can develop similar products using a different chemistry, our patents and patent applications may not prevent others from directly competing with us. Product development and approval timelines for certain products and therapies in our industry can require a significant amount of time (i.e. many years). As such, it is possible that any patents that may cover an approved product or therapy may have expired at the time of commercialization or only have a short remaining period of exclusivity, thereby reducing the commercial advantages of the patent. In such case, we would then rely solely on other forms of exclusivity which may provide less protection to our competitive position. Litigation relating to intellectual property is expensive, time consuming and uncertain, and we may be unsuccessful in our efforts to protect against infringement by third parties or defend ourselves against claims of infringement. To protect our intellectual property, we may initiate litigation or other proceedings. In general, intellectual property litigation is costly, time-consuming, diverts the attention of management and technical personnel and could result in substantial uncertainty regarding our future viability, even if we ultimately prevail. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or other proceedings more effectively than can we because of their substantially greater financial resources. The loss or narrowing of our intellectual property protection, the inability to secure or enforce our intellectual property rights or a finding that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of a third party could limit our ability to develop or market our products and services in the future or adversely affect our revenues. Furthermore, any public announcements related to such litigation or regulatory proceedings could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Third parties may allege that the research, development and commercialization activities we conduct infringe patents or other proprietary rights owned by such parties. This may turn out to be the case even though we have conducted a search and analysis of third-party patent rights and have determined that certain aspects of our research and development and proposed products activities apparently do not infringe on any third-party Chinese patent rights. If we are found to have infringed the patents of a third party, we may be required to pay substantial damages; we also may be required to seek from such party a license, which may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all, to continue our activities. A judicial finding or infringement or the failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from commercializing our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 23 If we are unable to maintain our licenses, patents or other intellectual property we could lose important protections that are material to continuing our operations and our future prospects. To obtain and maintain patent protection and licensing rights that are required in order for us to conduct and pursue our business plans, we must, among other things, ensure the timely payment of all applicable filing and maintenance fees, pay applicable license fees to our licensor(s), renew the term of certain licenses which are not perpetual, or expand the scope of the intellectual property under our license agreements. In order to renew the term of any license or expand its scope, we may be required to pay additional licensing fees to our licensor(s). Any failure to take the above actions or make payments which we are obligated to make, could result in the loss of some or all of our rights to proprietary technology or the inability to secure or enforce intellectual property protection. Additionally, our license agreements require us to meet certain diligence obligations in the development of the licensed products. Our failure to meet these diligence obligations could result in the loss of some or all of our rights, which could materially and adversely affect our business and future prospects. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of trade secrets, our competitive position could be impaired. A significant amount of our technology, particularly with respect to our proprietary manufacturing processes, is unpatented and is held in the form of trade secrets. We expend significant efforts to protect these trade secrets, including the use of confidentiality and proprietary information agreement, and knowledge segmentation among our staff. Even so, improper use or disclosure of our confidential information could occur and in such cases adequate remedies may not exist. The inadvertent disclosure of our trade secrets could impair our competitive position. Our technologies are at early stages of discovery and development, and we may fail to develop any commercially acceptable or profitable products. We have yet to develop any therapeutic products that have been approved for marketing, and we do not expect to become profitable within the next several years, but rather expect our biomedicine business to incur additional and increasing operating losses. Before commercializing any therapeutic product in China, we may be required to obtain regulatory approval from the MOH CFDA, local regulatory authorities, and/or individual hospitals, and outside China from equivalent foreign agencies after conducting extensive preclinical studies and clinical trials that demonstrate that the product candidate is safe and effective. We may elect to delay or discontinue studies or clinical trials based on unfavorable results. Any product developed from, or based on, cell technologies may fail to: ● survive and persist in the desired location; ● provide the intended therapeutic benefit; ● engraft or integrate into existing tissue in the desired manner; or ● achieve therapeutic benefits equal to, or better than, the standard of treatment at the time of testing. In addition, our therapeutic products may cause undesirable side effects. Results of preclinical research in animals may not be indicative of future clinical results in humans. Ultimately if regulatory authorities do not approve our products or if we fail to maintain regulatory compliance, we would be unable to commercialize our products, and our business and results of operations would be harmed. Even if we do succeed in developing products, we will face many potential obstacles such as the need to develop or obtain manufacturing, marketing and distribution capabilities. Furthermore, because transplantation of cells is a new form of therapy, the marketplace may not accept any products we may develop. Presently, a moratorium declared by the PRC government on commercialization of cell therapies is in effect, pending release of new regulations. No assurances can be made regarding when the moratorium will be lifted, or regarding the substance of the new regulations. If the moratorium continues longer than expected, or if new regulations are not favorable to our development plans, our business could be adversely affected. While we believe the PRC government is highly supportive of stem cell research and related potential advances in medical treatment, presently a moratorium is in effect in China (that we believe is temporary) which prevents any company from actually marketing and implementing cell therapies, while the central government considers and constructs a new set of rules and determines lines of authority among government agencies to regulate this new industry. We note however, that the moratorium appears to apply to cell therapeutics, and not immunotherapy, which may not necessarily affect the development of our HCC liver cancer therapy candidate. We also note that the moratorium bars marketing and implementation of products, treatments and therapies, but does not prevent the advancement of research, studies or development of potential products, treatments or therapies. Accordingly, we interpret the moratorium as a bar on marketing and use, but not a prohibition on conducting clinical trials, although we believe the practical effect of the moratorium has been to temporarily slow or halt applications for new clinical trials based on stem cell technology. The central government has declared stem cell technology to be a part of China’s national long-term scientific and technological development plan from 2006 to 2020. The government has also announced its intention to release new laws to regulate our industry, which are soon anticipated to be codified into law. Although we believe there is a high probability that laws adopted and codified in the PRC will ultimately be supportive of our development plans and consistent with the government’s prior policy pronouncements, there can be no assurance that these laws, once released and when applied, will be favorable to our interests. If the government fails to enact laws and lift the moratorium in the expected time frame, or if its laws when released and enacted are burdensome to our development, our plans could be delayed or thwarted, and our business would be materially and adversely affected. In March 2013, the PRC central government released proposed regulations of the MOH and the CFDA relating to the conduct of cell therapy pre-clinical and clinical trials in China. While management believes this is an indication that final rules may soon be adopted, we cannot provide any assurances as to the likely content of the final rules nor when they will become effective. 24 Most potential applications of our technology are pre-commercialization, which subjects us to development and marketing risks. We are in a relatively early stage on the path to commercialization with many of our products. Successful development and market acceptance of our products is subject to developmental risks, including failure to achieve innovative solutions to problems during development, ineffectiveness, lack of safety, unreliability, failure to receive necessary regulatory clearances or approvals, approval by hospital ethics committees and other governing bodies, high commercial cost, preclusion or obsolescence resulting from third parties’ proprietary rights or superior or equivalent products, competition, and general economic conditions affecting purchasing patterns. There is no assurance that we or our partners will successfully develop and commercialize our products, or that our competitors will not develop competing products, treatments or technologies that are less expensive or superior. Failure to successfully develop and market our products would have a substantial negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Market acceptance of new technology such as ours can be difficult to obtain. New and emerging cell therapy and cell banking technologies may have difficulty or encounter significant delays in obtaining market acceptance in some or all countries around the world due to the novelty of our cell therapy and cell banking technologies. Therefore, the market adoption of our cell therapy and cell banking technologies may be slow and lengthy with no assurances that the technology will be successfully adopted. The lack of market adoption or reduced or minimal market adoption of cell therapy and cell banking technologies may have a significant impact on our ability to successfully sell our future product(s) or therapies within China or in other countries. Our strategy depends in part on the adoption of the therapies we may develop by state-owned hospital systems in China, and the allocation of resources to new technologies and treatment methods is largely dependent upon ethics committees and governing bodies within the hospitals. Even if our clinical trials are successful, there can be no assurance that hospitals in China will adopt our technology and therapies as readily as we may anticipate. Future clinical trial results may differ significantly from our expectations. While we have proceeded incrementally with our clinical trials in an effort to gauge the risks of proceeding with larger and more expensive trials, we cannot guarantee that we will not experience negative results with larger and much more expensive clinical trials than we have conducted to date. Poor results in our clinical trials could result in substantial delays in commercialization, substantial negative effects on the perception of our products, and substantial additional costs. These risks are increased by our reliance on third parties in the performance of many of the clinical trial functions, including the clinical investigators, hospitals, and other third party service providers. We face risks relating to the cell therapy industry, clinical development and commercialization. Cell therapy is still a developing field and a significant global market for our services has yet to emerge. Our cellular therapy candidates are based on novel cell technologies that are inherently risky and may not be understood or accepted by the marketplace. The current market principally consists of providing manufacturing of cell and tissue-based therapeutic products for clinical trials and processing of stem cell products for therapeutic programs. The degree of market acceptance of any future product candidates will depend on a number of factors, including: ● the clinical safety and effectiveness of the product candidates, the availability of alternative treatments and the perceived advantages of the particular product candidates over alternative treatments; ● the relative convenience and ease of administration of the product candidates; ● our ability to separate the product candidates from the ethical controversies and political barriers associated with stem cell product candidates derived from human embryonic or fetal tissue; ● ethical concerns that may arise regarding our commercial use of stem cells, including adult stem cells, in the manufacture of the product candidates; ● the frequency and severity of adverse events or other undesirable side effects involving the product candidates or the products or product candidates of others that are cell-based; and ● the cost of the products, the reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors and our ability to obtain sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement. 25 If clinical trials of our technology fail to demonstrate safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of the relevant regulatory authorities, including the PRC’s State Food and Drug Administration and the Ministry of Health, or do not otherwise produce positive results, we may incur additional costs or experience delays in completing, or ultimately be unable to complete, the development and commercialization of such product candidates. Currently, a regulatory structure has not been established to standardize the approval process for products or therapies based on the technology that exists or that is being developed in our field. Therefore we must conduct, at our own expense, extensive clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the product candidates in humans, and then archive our results until such time as a new regulatory regime is put in place. If and when this new regulatory regime is adopted it may be easier or more difficult to navigate than CBMG may anticipate, with the following potential barriers: ● regulators or institutional review boards may not authorize us or our investigators to commence clinical trials or conduct clinical trials at a prospective trial site; ● clinical trials of product candidates may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical trials or abandon product development programs that we expect to be pursuing; ● the number of patients required for clinical trials of product candidates may be larger than we anticipate, enrollment in these clinical trials may be slower than we anticipate, or participants may drop out of these clinical trials at a higher rate than we anticipate; ● third party contractors may fail to comply with regulatory requirements or meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner or at all; ● we might have to suspend or terminate clinical trials of our product candidates for various reasons, including a finding that the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; ● regulators or institutional review boards may require that we or our investigators suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements; ● the cost of clinical trials of our product candidates may be greater than anticipated; ● we may be subject to a more complex regulatory process, since cell-based therapies are relatively new and regulatory agencies have less experience with them as compared to traditional pharmaceutical products; ● the supply or quality of our product candidates or other materials necessary to conduct clinical trials of these product candidates may be insufficient or inadequate; and ● our product candidates may have undesirable side effects or other unexpected characteristics, causing us or our investigators to halt or terminate the trials. We may be unable to generate interest or meaningful revenue in out-license our Intellectual Property. The results of preclinical studies may not correlate with the results of human clinical trials. In addition, early stage clinical trial results do not ensure success in later stage clinical trials, and interim trial results are not necessarily predictive of final trial results. To date, we have not completed the development of any products through regulatory approval. The results of preclinical studies in animals may not be predictive of results in a clinical trial. Likewise, the outcomes of early clinical trials may not be predictive of the success of later clinical trials. There can be no assurances that the clinical trials of any future product candidate will ultimately be successful. New information regarding the safety and efficacy of such product candidates may be less favorable than the data observed to date. We may experience delays in enrolling patients in our clinical trials, which could delay or prevent the receipt of necessary regulatory approvals. We may not be able to continue extensive clinical trials if we are unable to enroll a sufficient number of eligible patients to participate in the clinical trials required by the applicable regulatory authorities. Additional factors that may affect our ability to enroll patients in clinical trials include: ● patients’ willingness to receive a placebo or other inactive control on the control arm of a clinical study; ● the distance between patients and clinical test sites; and ● the eligibility criteria for the trial. 26 Even if we are successful in developing therapeutic applications using our cell technologies, we still may be unsuccessful in creating a commercially viable and profitable business. The commercial viability of our stem cell technologies may depend on, among other things, our ability to successfully isolate and expand the number of stem cells collected through adult stem cell collection processes in order to achieve a therapeutically-viable dose. Laws and the regulatory infrastructure governing the stem cell industry in China are relatively new and less established in comparison to the U.S. and other countries; accordingly regulation may be less stable and predictable than desired, and regulatory changes may disrupt our commercialization process. Regulation of the medical field in China including pharmaceuticals, medical technologies, and medical practice, is relatively new and less established compared to the U.S. and in many other countries. In addition the practice of and research relating to cell therapeutics has emerged in China very recently, and the government has not yet decided how the industry shall be regulated. Accordingly we expect that the regulatory environment in China will be comparatively less predictable, and if the government changes any of its policies relating to our industry, or changes in the manner in which rules are applied or interpreted, our commercialization process may be disrupted or delayed, which would adversely affect our results and prospects. Technological and medical developments or improvements in conventional therapies could render the use of cell therapy and our services and planned products obsolete. Advances in other treatment methods or in disease prevention techniques could significantly reduce or entirely eliminate the need for our cell therapy services, planned products and therapeutic efforts. There is no assurance that cell therapies will achieve the degree of success envisioned by us in the treatment of disease. Nor is there any assurance that new technological improvements or techniques will not render obsolete the processes currently used by us, the need for our services or our planned products. Additionally, technological or medical developments may materially alter the commercial viability of our technology or services, and require us to incur significant costs to replace or modify equipment in which we have a substantial investment. We are focused on cell therapy, and if this field is substantially unsuccessful, this could jeopardize our success or future results. The occurrence of any of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. There is a scarcity of experienced professionals in the field of cell therapy and we may not be able to retain key officers or employees or hire new key officers or employees needed to implement our business strategy and develop our products. If we are unable to retain or hire key officers or employees, we may be unable to grow our biomedicine business or implement our business strategy, and the Company may be materially and adversely affected. Given the specialized nature of cell therapy and the fact that it is a young field, there is an inherent scarcity of experienced personnel in the field. The Company is substantially dependent on the skills and efforts of current senior management for their management and operations, as well as for the implementation of their business strategy. As a result of the difficulty in locating qualified new management, the loss or incapacity of existing members of management or unavailability of qualified management or as replacements for management who resign or are terminated could adversely affect the Company’s operations. The future success of the Company also depends upon our ability to attract and retain additional qualified personnel (including medical, scientific, technical, commercial, business and administrative personnel) necessary to support our anticipated growth, develop our business, perform our contractual obligations to third parties and maintain appropriate licensure, on acceptable terms. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting or retaining personnel required by us to continue to grow our operations. The loss of a key employee, the failure of a key employee to perform in his or her current position or our inability to attract and retain skilled employees, as needed, could result in our inability to grow our biomedicine business or implement our business strategy, or may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in international jurisdictions would prevent us from market or license our products abroad. We may in the future seek to market or license our products or product candidates outside of China. In order to market such product candidates outside of China, we must submit clinical data concerning our product candidates and obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing. The time required to obtain approval from foreign regulators may require a substantial amount of time. We may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize any products in any market and therefore may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to support our business. We, our strategic partners and our customers conduct business in a heavily regulated industry. If we or one or more of our strategic partners or customers fail to comply with applicable current and future laws and government regulations, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. The healthcare industry is one of the most highly regulated industries. Federal governments, individual state and local governments and private accreditation organizations may oversee and monitor all the activities of individuals and businesses engaged in the delivery of health care products and services. Therefore, current laws, rules and regulations could directly or indirectly negatively affect our ability and the ability of our strategic partners and customers to operate each of their businesses. 27 In addition, as we expand into other parts of the world, we will need to comply with the applicable laws and regulations in such foreign jurisdictions. We have not yet thoroughly explored the requirements or feasibility of such compliance. It is possible that we may not be permitted to expand our business into one or more foreign jurisdictions. Although we intend to conduct our business in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, the laws and regulations affecting our business and relationships are complex, and many aspects of such relationships have not been the subject of judicial or regulatory interpretation. Furthermore, the cell therapy industry is the topic of significant government interest, and thus the laws and regulations applicable to us and our strategic partners and customers and to their business are subject to frequent change and/or reinterpretation and there can be no assurance that the laws and regulations applicable to us and our strategic partners and customers will not be amended or interpreted in a manner that adversely affects our business, financial condition, or operating results. We anticipate that we will need substantial additional financing in the future to continue our operations; if we are unable to raise additional capital, as and when needed, or on acceptable terms, we may be forced to delay, reduce or eliminate one or more of our product or therapy development programs, cell therapy initiatives or commercialization efforts and our business will harmed. Our current operating plan will require significant levels of additional capital to fund, among other things, the continued development of our cell therapy product or therapy candidates and the operation, and expansion of our manufacturing operations to our clinical development activities. In 2013 we began KOA and HCC Phase I clinical trials. If these trials are successful, we will require significant additional investment capital over a multi-year period in order to conduct subsequent phases, gain approval for these therapies by the MOH and SFDA, and to commercialize these therapies, if ever. Subsequent phases may be larger and more expensive than the Phase I trials. In order to raise the necessary capital, we will need to raise additional money in the capital markets, enter into collaboration agreements with third parties or undertake some combination of these strategies. If we are unsuccessful in these efforts, we may have no choice but to delay or abandon the trials. The amount and timing of our future capital requirements also will likely depend on many other factors, including: ● the scope, progress, results, costs, timing and outcomes of our other cell therapy product or therapy candidates; ● our ability to enter into any collaboration agreements with third parties for our other product or therapy candidates and the timing and terms of any such agreements; ● the timing of and the costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals for our product or therapy candidates, a process which could be particularly lengthy or complex given the lack of precedent for cell therapy products in China; and ● the costs of maintaining, expanding and protecting our intellectual property portfolio, including potential litigation costs and liabilities. To both fund our HCC and KOA clinical studies and support our future operations, we would likely seek to raise capital through a variety of different public and/or private financings vehicles. This could include, but not be limited to, the use of loans or issuances of debt or equity securities in public or private financings. If we raise capital through the sale of equity, or securities convertible into equity, it would result in dilution to our then existing stockholders. Servicing the interest and principal repayment obligations under debt facilities could divert funds that would otherwise be available to support clinical or commercialization activities. In certain cases, we also may seek funding through collaborative arrangements, that would likely require us to relinquish certain rights to our technology or product or therapy candidates and share in the future revenues associated with the partnered product or therapy. Ultimately, we may be unable to raise capital or enter into collaborative relationships on terms that are acceptable to us, if at all. Our inability to obtain necessary capital or financing to fund our future operating needs could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley act could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. It may be time consuming, difficult and costly for us to develop and implement the additional internal controls, processes and reporting procedures required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We may need to hire additional financial reporting, internal auditing and other finance staff in order to develop and implement appropriate additional internal controls, processes and reporting procedures. If we fail to comply in a timely manner with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act regarding internal controls over financial reporting or to remedy any material weaknesses in our internal controls that we may identify, such failure could result in material misstatements in our financial statements, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. 28 In connection with our on-going assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, we may discover "material weaknesses" in our internal controls as defined in standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”). A material weakness is a significant deficiency, or combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. The PCAOB defines "significant deficiency" as a deficiency that results in more than a remote likelihood that a misstatement of the financial statements that is more than inconsequential will not be prevented or detected. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we identified a number of significant deficiencies related to the Company’s pre-merger’s management structure. We have made improvements our internal control procedures to remediate the deficiencies identified. In the event that future material weaknesses are identified, we will attempt to employ qualified personnel and adopt and implement policies and procedures to address any material weaknesses we identify. However, the process of designing and implementing effective internal controls is a continuous effort that requires us to anticipate and react to changes in our business and the economic and regulatory environments and to expend significant resources to maintain a system of internal controls that is adequate to satisfy our reporting obligations as a public company. We cannot assure you that we will have the resources to be able to take steps to attempt to remedy any future material weaknesses or that the measures we will take will remediate any material weaknesses that we may identify or that we will implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial process and reporting in the future. Any failure to complete our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, to remediate any material weaknesses that we may identify or to implement new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of the periodic management evaluations of our internal controls and, in the case of a failure to remediate any material weaknesses that we may identify, would adversely affect the annual management reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting that are required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Inadequate internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. RISKS RELATED TO OUR STRUCTURE The laws and regulations governing the therapeutic use of stem cells in China are evolving. New PRC laws and regulations may impose conditions or requirements which could materially and adversely affect our business. As the cell therapy industry is at an early stage of development in China, new laws and regulations may be adopted in the future to address new issues that arise from time to time. As a result, substantial uncertainties exist regarding the interpretation and implementation of current and any future PRC laws and regulations applicable to the cell therapy industry. There is no way to predict the content or scope of future Chinese regulation. There can be no assurance that the PRC government authorities will not issue new laws or regulations that impose conditions or requirements with which we cannot comply. Noncompliance could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. On December 16, 2011, China’s MOH announced its intention to more tightly regulate clinical trials and cell therapeutic treatments in the PRC. The Ministry of Health ordered an immediate halt to “unapproved stem cell clinical trials and applications,” and put applications for new stem cell trials on hold until July 1, 2012, and the lifting of this moratorium has been delayed. For those clinical trials for stem cell products already approved by the CFDA, the Clinical Trial Approval Instructions and the Good Clinical Practice, or GCP, shall be strictly followed, with unwarranted changes to the approved clinical trial protocol and profit seeking activities strictly forbidden. As of the date of this current report, the foregoing moratorium has not been lifted. China’s State Food and Drug Administration’s regulations may limit our ability to develop, license, manufacture and market our products, therapies and/or services. Some or all of our operations in China will be subject to oversight and regulation by the Government regulations, among other things, cover the inspection of and controls over testing, manufacturing, safety and environmental considerations, efficacy, labeling, advertising, promotion, record keeping and sale and distribution of pharmaceutical products. Such government regulations may increase our costs and prevent or delay the licensing, manufacturing and marketing of any of our products or services. In the event we seek to license, manufacture, sell or distribute new products or services, we likely will need approvals from certain government agencies such as the CFDA and MOH. The future growth and profitability of any operations in China would be contingent on obtaining the requisite approvals. There can be no assurance that we will obtain such approvals. In 2004, the CFDA implemented new guidelines for the licensing of pharmaceutical products. All existing manufacturers with licenses were required to apply for cGMP certifications. According to Good Manufacturing Practices for Pharmaceutical Products (revised edition 2010), or the New GMP Rules promulgated by the MOH of the PRC on January 17, 2011 which became effective on March 1, 2011, all the newly constructed manufacturing facilities of drug manufacture enterprises in China shall comply with the requirements of the New GMP Rules, which are stricter than the original GMP standards. In addition, delays, product recalls or failures to receive approval may be encountered based upon additional government regulation, legislative changes, administrative action or changes in governmental policy and interpretation applicable to the Chinese pharmaceutical industry. Our pharmaceutical activities also may subject us to government regulations with respect to product prices and other marketing and promotional related activities. Government regulations may substantially increase our costs for developing, licensing, manufacturing and marketing any products or services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The CFDA and other regulatory authorities in China have implemented a series of new punitive and stringent measures regarding the pharmaceuticals industry to redress certain past misconducts in the industry and certain deficiencies in public health reform policies. Given the nature and extent of such new enforcement measures, the aggressive manner in which such enforcement is being conducted and the fact that newly-constituted local level branches are encouraged to issue such punishments and fines, there is the possibility of large scale and significant penalties being levied on manufacturers. These new measures may include fines, restriction and suspension of operations and marketing and other unspecified penalties. This new regulatory environment has added significantly to the risks of our businesses in China and may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 29 Our operations are subject to risks associated with emerging markets. The Chinese economy is not well established and is only recently emerging and growing as a significant market for consumer goods and services. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the market will continue to grow. Perceived risks associated with investing in China, or a general disruption in the development of China’s markets could materially and adversely affect the business, operating results and financial condition of the Company. A substantial portion of our assets are currently located in the PRC, and investors may not be able to enforce federal securities laws or their other legal rights. A substantial portion of our assets are located in the PRC. As a result, it may be difficult for investors in the U.S. to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon certain of our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties against any of our directors and officers located outside of the U.S. The PRC government has the ability to exercise significant influence and control over our operations in China. In recent years, the PRC government has implemented measures for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of corporate governance practices in business enterprises. However, many productive assets in China are still owned by the PRC government. In addition, the government continues to play a significant role in regulating industrial development by imposing business regulations. It also exercises significant control over the country’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. There can be no assurance that China’s economic, political or legal systems will not develop in a way that becomes detrimental to our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our activities may be materially and adversely affected by changes in China’s economic and social conditions and by changes in the policies of the government, such as measures to control inflation, changes in the rates or method of taxation and the imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion. Additional factors that we may experience in connection with having operations in China that may adversely affect our business and results of operations include: ● our inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any material agreements; ● PRC restrictions on foreign investment that could impair our ability to conduct our business or acquire or contract with other entities in the future; ● restrictions on currency exchange that may limit our ability to use cash flow most effectively or to repatriate our investment; ● fluctuations in currency values; ● cultural, language and managerial differences that may reduce our overall performance; and ● political instability in China. Cultural, language and managerial differences may adversely affect our overall performance. We have experienced difficulties in assimilating cultural, language and managerial differences with our subsidiaries in China. Personnel issues have developed in consolidating management teams from different cultural backgrounds. In addition, language translation issues from time to time have caused miscommunications. These factors make the management of our operations in China more difficult. Difficulties in coordinating the efforts of our U.S.-based management team with our China-based management team may cause our business, operating results and financial condition to be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to enforce our rights in China. China’s legal and judicial system may negatively impact foreign investors. The legal system in China is evolving rapidly, and enforcement of laws is inconsistent. It may be impossible to obtain swift and equitable enforcement of laws or enforcement of the judgment of one court by a court of another jurisdiction. China’s legal system is based on civil law or written statutes and a decision by one judge does not set a legal precedent that must be followed by judges in other cases. In addition, the interpretation of Chinese laws may vary to reflect domestic political changes. 30 Since a portion of our operations are presently based in China, service of process on our business and officers may be difficult to effect within the United States. Also, some of our assets are located outside the United States and any judgment obtained in the United States against us may not be enforceable outside the United States. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application to our business of PRC laws and regulations, since many of the rules and regulations that companies face in China are not made public. The effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may be delayed, resulting in detrimental reliance by foreign investors. New laws and regulations that apply to future businesses may be applied retroactively to existing businesses. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations may have on our business. The laws of China are likely to govern many of our material agreements, including, without limitation the Joint Venture Agreement dated September 9, 2011 with CSC, as amended. We cannot assure you that we will be able to enforce our interests or our material agreements or that expected remedies will be available. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements may have a material adverse impact on our operations. Our operations in China are subject to government regulation that limit or prohibit direct foreign investment, which may limit our ability to control operations based in China. The PRC government has imposed regulations in various industries, including medical research and the stem cell industry, that limit foreign investors’ equity ownership or prohibit foreign investments altogether in companies that operate in such industries. We are currently structured as a U.S. corporation (Delaware) with subsidiaries and controlled entities in China. As a result of these regulations and the manner in which they may be applied or enforced, our ability to control our existing operations based in China may be limited or restricted. If the relevant Chinese authorities find us or any business combination to be in violation of any laws or regulations, they would have broad discretion in dealing with such violation, including, without limitation: (i) levying fines; (ii) revoking our business and other licenses; (iii) requiring that we restructure our ownership or operations; and (iv) requiring that we discontinue any portion or all of our business. We may suffer losses if we cannot utilize our assets in China. The Company’s Shanghai and Wuxi laboratory facilities were originally intended for stem cell research and development, but has been equipped to provide comprehensive cell manufacturing, collection, processing and storage capabilities to provide cells for clinical trials. The lease for this facility expires in 2014 and the Company is considering its options with respect to extending this lease to allow for manufacturing for clinical trials in Asia. If the Company does not determine to renew the lease due to limitations on its utility under the new regulatory initiatives in China or otherwise, the Company may incur certain expenses in connection with returning the premises to the landlord. Management believes it will be able to renew all leases without difficulty. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize our cash flow effectively. Our interests in China will be subject to China’s rules and regulations on currency conversion. In particular, the initial capitalization and operating expenses of the VIE (CBMG Shanghai) are funded by our WFOE, Cellular Biomedicine Group Ltd. (Wuxi). In China, the State Administration for Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”), regulates the conversion of the Chinese Renminbi into foreign currencies and the conversion of foreign currencies into Chinese Renminbi. Currently, foreign investment enterprises are required to apply to the SAFE for Foreign Exchange Registration Certificates, or IC Cards of Enterprises with Foreign Investment. Foreign investment enterprises holding such registration certificates, which must be renewed annually, are allowed to open foreign currency accounts including a “basic account” and “capital account.” Currency translation within the scope of the “basic account,” such as remittance of foreign currencies for payment of dividends, can be effected without requiring the approval of the SAFE. However, conversion of currency in the “capital account,” including capital items such as direct investments, loans, and securities, require approval of the SAFE. According to the Notice of the General Affairs Department of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange on the Relevant Operating Issues Concerning the Improvement of the Administration of Payment and Settlement of Foreign Currency Capital of Foreign-invested Enterprises promulgated on August 29, 2008, or the SAFE Notice 142, to apply to a bank for settlement of foreign currency capital, a foreign invested enterprise shall submit the documents certifying the uses of the RMB funds from the settlement of foreign currency capital and a detailed checklist on use of the RMB funds from the last settlement of foreign currency capital. It is stipulated that only if the funds for the settlement of foreign currency capital are of an amount not more than US$50,000 and are to be used for enterprise reserve, the above documents may be exempted by the bank. This SAFE Notice 142, along with the recent practice of Chinese banks of restricting foreign currency conversion for fear of “hot money” going into China, limits and may continue to limit our ability to channel funds to the VIE entities for their operation. There can be no assurance that the PRC regulatory authorities will not impose further restrictions on the convertibility of the Chinese currency. Future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use our cash flow for the distribution of dividends to our stockholders or to fund operations we may have outside of China, which could materially adversely affect our business and operating results. Fluctuations in the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar could affect our operating results. We prepare our financial statements in U.S. dollars, while our underlying businesses operate in two currencies, U.S. dollars and Chinese Renminbi. It is anticipated that our Chinese operations will conduct their operations primarily in Renminbi and our U.S. operations will conduct their operations in dollars. At the present time, we do not expect to have significant cross currency transactions that will be at risk to foreign currency exchange rates. Nevertheless, the conversion of financial information using a functional currency of Renminbi will be subject to risks related to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The value of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions and supply and demand in local markets. As we have significant operations in China, and will rely principally on revenues earned in China, any significant revaluation of the Renminbi could materially and adversely affect our financial results. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars we receive from an offering of our securities into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 31 Beginning in July 2005, the PRC government changed its policy of pegging the value of Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the value of the Renminbi has fluctuated within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. However, the Chinese government has come under increasing U.S. and international pressure to revalue the Renminbi or to permit it to trade in a wider band, which many observers believe would lead to substantial appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other major currencies. There can be no assurance that Renminbi will be stable against the U.S. dollar. On June 19, 2010 the central bank of China announced that it will gradually modify its monetary policy and make the Renminbi’s exchange rate more flexible and allow the Renminbi to appreciate in value in line with its economic strength. China’s State Food and Drug Administration’s regulations may limit our ability to develop, license, manufacture and market our products and services. Some or all of our operations in China will be subject to oversight and regulation by the CFDA and MOH.CFDA. Government regulations, among other things, cover the inspection of and controls over testing, manufacturing, safety and environmental considerations, efficacy, labeling, advertising, promotion, record keeping and sale and distribution of pharmaceutical products. Such government regulations may increase our costs and prevent or delay the licensing, manufacturing and marketing of any of our products or services. In the event we seek to license, manufacture, sell or distribute new products or services, we likely will need approvals from certain government agencies such as the future growth and profitability of any operations in China would be contingent on obtaining the requisite approvals. There can be no assurance that we will obtain such approvals. In 2004, the CFDA implemented new guidelines for the licensing of pharmaceutical products. All existing manufacturers with licenses were required to apply for the Good Manufacturing Practices ("cGMP") certifications. According to Good Manufacturing Practices for Pharmaceutical Products (revised edition 2010), or the New GMP Rules promulgated by the Ministry of Health of the PRC on January 17, 2011 which became effective on March 1, 2011, all the newly constructed manufacturing facilities of drug manufacture enterprises in China shall comply with the requirements of the New GMP Rules, which are stricter than the original GMP standards. In addition, delays, product recalls or failures to receive approval may be encountered based upon additional government regulation, legislative changes, administrative action or changes in governmental policy and interpretation applicable to the Chinese pharmaceutical industry. Our pharmaceutical activities also may subject us to government regulations with respect to product prices and other marketing and promotional related activities. Government regulations may substantially increase our costs for developing, licensing, manufacturing and marketing any products or services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The CFDA and other regulatory authorities in China have implemented a series of new punitive and stringent measures regarding the pharmaceuticals industry to redress certain past misconducts in the industry and certain deficiencies in public health reform policies. Given the nature and extent of such new enforcement measures, the aggressive manner in which such enforcement is being conducted and the fact that newly-constituted local level branches are encouraged to issue such punishments and fines, there is the possibility of large scale and significant penalties being levied on manufacturers. These new measures may include fines, restriction and suspension of operations and marketing and other unspecified penalties. This new regulatory environment has added significantly to the risks of our businesses in China and may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Some of the laws and regulations governing our business in China are vague and subject to risks of interpretation. Some of the PRC laws and regulations governing our business operations in China are vague and their official interpretation and enforcement may involve substantial uncertainty. These include, but are not limited to, laws and regulations governing our business and the enforcement and performance of our contractual arrangements in the event of the imposition of statutory liens, death, bankruptcy and criminal proceedings. Despite their uncertainty, we will be required to comply. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed businesses may be applied retroactively. Accordingly, the effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may not be clear. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations may have on our business. In addition, pursuant to China’s Administrative Measures on the Foreign Investment in Commercial Sector, foreign enterprises are permitted to establish or invest in wholly foreign-owned enterprises or joint ventures that engage in wholesale or retail sales of pharmaceuticals in China subject to the implementation of relevant regulations. However, no specific regulations in this regard have been promulgated to date, which creates uncertainty. If specific regulations are not promulgated, or if any promulgated regulations contain clauses that cause an adverse impact to our operations in China, then our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 32 The laws and regulations governing the therapeutic use of stem cells in China are evolving. New PRC laws and regulations may impose conditions or requirements which could materially and adversely affect our business. As the cell therapy industry is at an early stage of development in China, new laws and regulations may be adopted in the future to address new issues that arise from time to time. As a result, substantial uncertainties exist regarding the interpretation and implementation of current and any future PRC laws and regulations applicable to the cell therapy industry. There is no way to predict the content or scope of future Chinese regulation. There can be no assurance that the PRC government authorities will not issue new laws or regulations that impose conditions or requirements with which we cannot comply. Noncompliance could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. On December 16, 2011, China’s MOH ordered an immediate halt to “unapproved stem cell clinical trials and applications,” and put applications for new clinical trials on hold until July 1, 2012, which moratorium has been extended. For those clinical trials for stem cell products already approved by the CFDA, the Clinical Trial Approval Instructions and the Good Clinical Practice ("GCP") shall be strictly followed, with unwarranted changes to the approved clinical trial protocol and profit-seeking activities strictly forbidden. As of the date of this annual report, the foregoing moratorium has not been lifted. The PRC government does not permit direct foreign investment in stem cell research and development businesses. Accordingly, we operate these businesses through local companies with which we have contractual relationships but in which we do not have direct equity ownership. PRC regulations prevent foreign companies from directly engaging in stem cell-related research, development and commercial applications in China. Therefore, to perform these activities, we conduct much of our biomedicine business operations in China through a domestic variable interest entity, or VIE, a Chinese domestic company controlled by the Chinese employees of the Company. Our contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing control over these entities as direct ownership. For example, the VIE could fail to take actions required for our business or fail to conduct business in the manner we desire despite their contractual obligation to do so. These companies are able to transact business with parties not affiliated with us. If these companies fail to perform under their agreements with us, we may have to rely on legal remedies under PRC law, which may not be effective. In addition, we cannot be certain that the individual equity owners of the VIE would always act in our best interests, especially if they have no other relationship with us. Although other foreign companies have used VIE structures similar to ours and such arrangements are not uncommon in connection with business operations of foreign companies in China in industry sectors in which foreign direct investments are limited or prohibited, recently there has been greater scrutiny by the business community of the VIE structure and, additionally, the application of a VIE structure to control companies in a sector in which foreign direct investment is specifically prohibited carries increased risks. In addition, the Ministry of Commerce (“MOFCOM”), promulgated the Rules of Ministry of Commerce on Implementation of Security Review System of Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors in August 2011, or the MOFCOM Security Review Rules, to implement the Notice of the General Office of the State Council on Establishing the Security Review System for Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors promulgated on February 3, 2011, or Circular No. 6. The MOFCOM Security Review Rules came into effect on September 1, 2011 and replaced the Interim Provisions of the Ministry of Commerce on Matters Relating to the Implementation of the Security Review System for Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors promulgated by MOFCOM in March 2011. According to these circulars and rules, a security review is required for mergers and acquisitions by foreign investors having “national defense and security” concerns and mergers and acquisitions by which foreign investors may acquire the “de facto control” of domestic enterprises having “national security” concerns. In addition, when deciding whether a specific merger or acquisition of a domestic enterprise by foreign investors is subject to the security review, the MOFCOM will look into the substance and actual impact of the transaction. The MOFCOM Security Review Rules further prohibit foreign investors from bypassing the security review requirement by structuring transactions through proxies, trusts, indirect investments, leases, loans, control through contractual arrangements or offshore transactions. There is no explicit provision or official interpretation stating that our business falls into the scope subject to the security review, and there is no requirement for foreign investors in those mergers and acquisitions transactions already completed prior to the promulgation of Circular No. 6 to submit such transactions to MOFCOM for security review. The enactment of the MOFCOM National Security Review Rules specifically prohibits circumvention of the rules through VIE arrangement in the area of foreign investment in business of national security concern. Although we believe that our business, judging from its scale, should not cause any concern for national security review at its current state, there is no assurance that MOFCOM would not apply the same concept of anti-circumvention in the future to foreign investment in prohibited areas through VIE structure, the same way that our investment in China was structured. Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits U.S. companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with us, are not subject to these prohibitions. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in the PRC. There can be no assurance, however, that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 33 If we make equity compensation grants to persons who are PRC citizens, they may be required to register with SAFE. We may also face regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our ability to adopt equity compensation plans for our directors and employees and other parties under PRC laws. On April 6, 2007, SAFE issued the “Operating Procedures for Administration of Domestic Individuals Participating in the Employee Stock Ownership Plan or Stock Option Plan of An Overseas Listed Company, also known as “Circular 78.” It is not clear whether Circular 78 covers all forms of equity compensation plans or only those which provide for the granting of stock options. For any plans which are so covered and are adopted by a non-PRC listed company, such as our company, after April 6, 2007, Circular 78 requires all participants who are PRC citizens to register with and obtain approvals from SAFE prior to their participation in the plan. In addition, Circular 78 also requires PRC citizens to register with SAFE and make the necessary applications and filings if they participated in an overseas listed company’s covered equity compensation plan prior to April 6, 2007. We believe that the registration and approval requirements contemplated in Circular 78 will be burdensome and time consuming. If it is determined that any of our equity compensation plans are subject to Circular 78, failure to comply with such provisions may subject us and participants of our equity incentive plan who are PRC citizens to fines and legal sanctions and may possibly prevent us from being able to grant equity compensation to our PRC employees. In that case, our ability to compensate our employees and directors through equity compensation would be hindered and our business operations may be adversely affected. The labor contract law and its implementation regulations may increase our operating expenses and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As the PRC Labor Contract Law, or Labor Contract Law, and the Implementation Regulation for the PRC Labor Contract Law, or Implementation Regulation, have been enforced for only a relatively short period of time, substantial uncertainty remains as to its potential impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The implementation of the Labor Contract Law and the Implementation Regulation may increase our operating expenses, in particular our human resources costs and our administrative expenses. In addition, as the interpretation and implementation of these regulations are still evolving, we cannot assure you that our employment practices will at all times be deemed to be in full compliance with the law. In the event that we decide to significantly modify our employment or labor policy or practice, or reduce the number of our sales professionals, the labor contract law may limit our ability to effectuate the modifications or changes in the manner that we believe to be most cost-efficient or otherwise desirable, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are subject to severe penalties or incur significant liabilities in connection with labor disputes or investigations, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. In the event that we decide to significantly modify our employment or labor policy or practice, or reduce our professional staff, the labor contract law may limit our ability to effectuate the modifications or changes in the manner that we believe to be most cost-efficient or otherwise desirable, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If relations between the United States and China worsen, our stock price may decrease and we may have difficulty accessing the U.S. capital markets. At various times during recent years, the United States and China have had disagreements over trade, economic and other policy issues. Controversies may arise in the future between these two countries. Any political or trade controversies between the United States and China could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our and our clients' ability to access U.S. capital markets. RISKS RELATED TO OUR CONSULTING SERVICES BUSINESS We are subject to constraints under U.S. regulations with respect to the consulting services we provide through EastBridge Sub. Even though our consulting services business does not involve raising capital for clients, the consulting services provided through EastBridge Sub may be viewed as providing investment services. Investment businesses generally are comprehensively and intensively regulated under state and federal securities laws and regulations. Any investigation, litigation or other proceeding undertaken by the SEC or other federal or state regulatory agencies or private parties could necessitate the expenditure of material amounts of funds for legal and other costs and could have other materially adverse consequences for the Company, particularly if EastBridge is subject to fines and penalties for failure to obtain the required licenses or approvals. Neither the Company nor is EastBridge Sub registered as a broker or dealer under the Exchange Act or any other securities law. EastBridge Sub management believes that it is not required to be registered as a broker or dealer, but if the SEC, FINRA or the securities administrator of any state were to assert that such registration is required, EastBridge Sub would bear the resulting increased expenses and its activities would be restricted, which could materially and adversely affect the Company's business. EastBridge Sub or its officers and directors could also be subject to fines, penalties and other expenses as well as restrictions on its future business activities as a result of prior activities. Neither the Company nor EastBridge Sub has, and is not expected to, register as an investment adviser or an investment company under the federal Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, the federal Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or under the laws of any state. EastBridge Sub management does not believe that any law requires such a registration. However, particularly with respect to the method it has established of forming wholly owned subsidiaries and taking equity in clients, these practices may inadvertently violate the Investment Company Act of 1940 which would require extensive additional filings and additional compliance with SEC regulations. If required, however, such a registration could preclude EastBridge Sub from performing its duties to its clients, which could lead to material adverse effects on the Company and its business, making its consulting services business less lucrative. 34 EastBridge Sub may also be subject to the federal or various state investment advisory acts. The consulting services rendered by EastBridge Sub may be viewed as providing financial advice even though management believes that any financial advice is not actually provided by EastBridge Sub but instead is provided by third party financial service firms which are registered. Competition may negatively impact us. Our consulting services business through EastBridge Sub competes with individuals and both large and small investment companies for clients in Asia and our other current and proposed markets. Many of these institutions and individuals are already active in the Asian and American markets and have greater financial and other resources that may be used to compete against us. We expect that, if EastBridge Sub is successful and if the market in which it operates as a whole has favorable results, competition will increase. Eastbridge Sub depends upon key management personnel and the loss of any of them would seriously disrupt our operations. The success of our consulting services business is largely dependent on the personal efforts of Keith Wong and Norm Klein, who are the chief executive officer and chief financial officer, respectively, of EastBridge Sub. The loss of the services of Keith Wong or Norm Klein or other key executives would have a material adverse effect on the business and prospects of EastBridge Sub. The Company has not obtained key-man insurance for any of its senior management personnel or for any of the officers of its subsidiaries, which means that the Company will not receive any cash amounts as a result of the disability or death of a member of senior management. In addition, in order for us to undertake our consulting business operations as contemplated, it will be necessary for us to locate and hire experienced personnel who are knowledgeable in the industry in which EastBridge Sub operates. Failure to attract and retain such experienced personnel on acceptable terms will have a material adverse impact on our ability to grow our consulting services business. EastBridge Sub does not provide proprietary services. There is nothing proprietary about the consulting services provided through EastBridge Sub, and EastBridge Sub does not rely upon any intellectual property or other protection for its consulting services business. Any current or future competitors could duplicate the consulting service business model of EastBridge Sub and there would be no legal recourse against these competitors for such actions. We are currently being audited. We are undergoing an audit by the Internal Revenue Service related to employment tax liability of EastBridge Sub for the 2006-2008 tax years, and depending on the outcome of the audit, we may be subject to additional taxes, penalties and restrictions on further business activities or how we account for them. An assessment of additional taxes plus penalties and interest may have a material adverse effect on our finances. The audit process was completed and all taxes, penalties and interest have been paid in full in 2013. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK Our share ownership is concentrated. One stockholder, Global Health Investment Holdings Ltd. (“Global Health”), beneficially owns approximately 45% of our issued and outstanding Common Stock. As a result, that stockholder will exert significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all, or substantially all, of the assets, as well as any charter amendment and other matters requiring stockholder approval. This concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control and may have a negative impact on the market price of our Common Stock by discouraging third party investors. The Company was a party to a lockup agreement with Global Health entered into on January 21, 2013, which was assumed by the Company on the closing date of the merger on February 6, 2013. Under the agreement, Global Health agreed for a period of one year after the closing date of the Merger to (i) not offer, sell, agree to sell, contract to sell, hypothecate, pledge, grant any option to purchase, made any short sale, or otherwise dispose of or hedge, directly or indirectly, any of the Company’s common stock or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for the Company’s common stock, or publicly announce an intention to effect any such transaction, in connection with Global Health’s shares, or exercise any right without respect to the registration of its shares, or file or cause to be filed any registration statement in connection with its shares without prior written consent of the Company; or (ii) enter into any swap or any other agreement or any transaction that transfers, in whole or in part, the economic consequences of ownership of Global Health’s shares without prior written consent of the Company. 35 Our common stock may be subject to the penny stock rules which might make it harder for stockholders to sell. As a result of our initial stock price, our shares may become subject to the penny stock rules. The application of these penny stock rules may affect stockholders’ ability to sell their shares because some broker-dealers may not be willing to make a market in our Common Stock because of the burdens imposed upon them by the penny stock rules which include but are not limited to: ● Section 15(g) of the Exchange Act and Exchange Act rules 15g-1 through 15g-6, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell Company securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. ● Exchange Act rule 15g-2 declares unlawful any broker-dealer transactions in penny stocks unless the broker-dealer has first provided to the customer a standardized disclosure document. ● Exchange Act rule 15g-3 provides that it is unlawful for a broker-dealer to engage in a penny stock transaction unless the broker-dealer first discloses and subsequently confirms to the customer the current quotation prices or similar market information concerning the penny stock in question. ● Exchange Act rule 15g-4 prohibits broker-dealers from completing penny stock transactions for a customer unless the broker-dealer first discloses to the customer the amount of compensation or other remuneration received as a result of the penny stock transaction. ● Exchange Act rule 15g-5 requires that a broker-dealer executing a penny stock transaction, other than one exempt under Rule 15g-1, disclose to its customer, at the time of or prior to the transaction, information about the sales person’s compensation. We do not intend to pay cash dividends. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We may not have sufficient funds to legally pay dividends. Even if funds are legally available to pay dividends, we may nevertheless decide in our sole discretion not to pay dividends. The declaration, payment and amount of any future dividends will be made at the discretion of the board of directors, and will depend upon, among other things, the results of our operations, cash flows and financial condition, operating and capital requirements, and other factors our board of directors may consider relevant. There is no assurance that we will pay any dividends in the future, and, if dividends are declared, there is no assurance with respect to the amount of any such dividend. Because our stock is quoted on the OTCQB, our stockholders may have difficulty selling their stock or experience increased negative volatility in the market price of our stock. Our common stock is quoted on the OTCQB. The QTCQB is often highly illiquid, in part because it does not have a national quotation system by which potential investors can follow the market price of shares except through information received and generated by a limited number of broker-dealers that make markets in particular stocks. There is a greater chance of volatility for securities that trade on the OTCQB as compared to a national exchange or quotation system. This volatility may be caused by a variety of factors, including the lack of readily available price quotations, the absence of consistent administrative supervision of bid and ask quotations, lower or non-existent trading volume, and market conditions. Our stockholders may experience high fluctuations in the market price and volume of the trading market for our securities. These fluctuations, when they occur, have a negative effect on the market price for our securities. Accordingly, our stockholders may not be able to realize a fair price from their shares when they determine to sell them or may have to hold them for a substantial period of time until the market for our common stock improves. Our operating history and lack of profits could lead to wide fluctuations in our share price. The market price for our common shares is particularly volatile given our status as a relatively unknown company with a small and thinly traded public float. The market for our common shares is characterized by significant price volatility when compared to seasoned issuers, and we expect that our share price will continue to be more volatile than a seasoned issuer for the indefinite future. The volatility in our share price is attributable to a number of factors. First, as noted above, our common shares are sporadically and thinly traded. As a consequence of this lack of liquidity, the trading of relatively small quantities of shares by our stockholders may disproportionately influence the price of those shares in either direction. The price for our shares could, for example, decline precipitously in the event that a large number of our common shares are sold on the market without commensurate demand, as compared to a seasoned issuer which could better absorb those sales without adverse impact on its share price. Secondly, we are a speculative or "risky" investment due to our limited operating history and lack of profits to date. As a consequence of this enhanced risk, more risk-adverse investors may, under the fear of losing all or most of their investment in the event of negative news or lack of progress, be more inclined to sell their shares on the market more quickly and at greater discounts than would be the case with the stock of a seasoned issuer. Many of these factors are beyond our control and may decrease the market price of our common shares, regardless of our operating performance. We cannot make any predictions or projections as to what the prevailing market price for our common shares will be at any time, including as to whether our common shares will sustain their current market prices, or as to what effect that the sale of shares or the availability of common shares for sale at any time will have on the prevailing market price. Stockholders should be aware that, according to SEC Release No. 34-29093, the market for penny stocks has suffered in recent years from patterns of fraud and abuse. Such patterns include (1) control of the market for the security by one or a few broker-dealers that are often related to the promoter or issuer; (2) manipulation of prices through prearranged matching of purchases and sales and false and misleading press releases; (3) boiler room practices involving high-pressure sales tactics and unrealistic price projections by inexperienced sales persons; (4) excessive and undisclosed bid-ask differential and markups by selling broker-dealers; and (5) the wholesale dumping of the same securities by promoters and broker-dealers after prices have been manipulated to a desired level, along with the resulting inevitable collapse of those prices and with consequent investor losses. Our management is aware of the abuses that have occurred historically in the penny stock market. Although we do not expect to be in a position to dictate the behavior of the market or of broker-dealers who participate in the market, management will strive within the confines of practical limitations to prevent the described patterns from being established with respect to our securities. However, the occurrence of these patterns or practices could increase the volatility of our share price. Our profitability may be negatively impacted due to the fact that a substantial portion of our assets are comprised of securities that are not highly liquid. A substantial portion of our assets, held by EastBridge Sub, are comprised of securities received as compensation for services rendered and are not highly liquid. There is presently no public market in the majority of the securities held by EastBridge Sub, and it is uncertain if such securities will be listed on a securities exchange or if a market for such securities will ever develop. There is no assurance that an alternative exit strategy will be readily available to realize the fair value of such securities. Accordingly, we are prepared to bear the economic risk of such securities for an indefinite period of time. 36 