ITEM 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following information about these risks, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before investing in our common stock. If any of the events anticipated by the risks described below occur, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected which could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock, causing you to lose all or part of your investment. The Liquidity Of Our Common Stock Is Seriously Limited And There Is A Limited Market For Our Common Stock Our stock is currently being traded on the NASDAQ Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board, and the liquidity of our common stock is limited. The Bulletin Board is a limited market and subject to substantial restrictions and limitations in comparison to the NASDAQ system. Any broker/dealer that makes a market in our stock or other person that buys or sells our stock could have a significant influence over its price at any given time. We Depend Upon Key Management Personnel and the Loss of Any of Them Would Seriously Disrupt Our Operations: The success of our company is largely dependent on the personal efforts of Keith Wong and Norm Klein and other key executives. The loss of the services of Keith Wong and Norm Klein or other key executives would have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. In addition, in order for us to undertake our operations as contemplated, it will be necessary for us to locate and hire experienced personnel who are knowledgeable in our business. Our failure to attract and retain such experienced personnel on acceptable terms will have a material adverse impact on our ability to grow our business. Our Common Stock Is Subject To Penny Stock Regulation Our shares are subject to the provisions of Section 15(g) and Rule 15g-9 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), commonly referred to as the "penny stock" rule. Section 15(g) sets forth certain requirements for transactions in penny stocks and Rule 15g-9(d)(1) incorporates the definition of penny stock as that used in Rule 3a51-1 of the Exchange Act. The Commission generally defines penny stock to be any equity security that has a market price less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Rule 3a51-1 provides that any equity security is considered to be penny stock unless that security is: registered and traded on a national securities exchange meeting specified criteria set by the Commission; authorized for quotation on the NASDAQ Stock Market; issued by a registered investment company; excluded from the definition on the basis of price (at least $5.00 per share) or the registrant's net tangible assets; or exempted from the definition by the Commission. Since our shares are deemed to be "penny stock", trading in the shares will be subject to additional 7 sales practice requirements on broker/dealers who sell penny stock to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. We Do Not Intend To Pay Cash Dividends. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We may not have sufficient funds to legally pay dividends. Even if funds are legally available to pay dividends, we may nevertheless decide in our sole discretion not to pay dividends. The declaration, payment and amount of any future dividends will be made at the discretion of the board of directors, and will depend upon, among other things, the results of our operations, cash flows and financial condition, operating and capital requirements, and other factors our board of directors may consider relevant. There is no assurance that we will pay any dividends in the future, and, if dividends are rapid, there is no assurance with respect to the amount of any such dividend. Because We Are Quoted On The OTCBB Instead Of An Exchange Or National Quotation System, Our Investors May Have A Tougher Time Selling Their Stock Or Experience Negative Volatility On The Market Price Of Our Stock. Our common stock is traded on the OTCBB. The OTCBB is often highly illiquid, in part because it does not have a national quotation system by which potential investors can follow the market price of shares except through information received and generated by a limited number of broker-dealers that make markets in particular stocks. There is a greater chance of volatility for securities that trade on the OTCBB as compared to a national exchange or quotation system. This volatility may be caused by a variety of factors, including the lack of readily available price quotations, the absence of consistent administrative supervision of bid and ask quotations, lower trading volume, and market conditions. Investors in our common stock may experience high fluctuations in the market price and volume of the trading market for our securities. These fluctuations, when they occur, have a negative effect on the market price for our securities. Accordingly, our stockholders ma y not be able to realize a fair price from their shares when they determine to sell them or may have to hold them for a substantial period of time until the market for our common stock improves. Failure To Achieve And Maintain Effective Internal Controls In Accordance With Section 404 Of The Sarbanes-Oxley Act Could Have A Material Adverse Effect On Our Business And Operating Results. It may be time consuming, difficult and costly for us to develop and implement the additional internal controls, processes and reporting procedures required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We may need to hire additional financial reporting, internal auditing and other finance staff in order to develop and implement appropriate additional internal controls, processes and reporting procedures. If we are unable to comply with these requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we may not be able to obtain the independent accountant certifications that the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires of publicly traded companies. If we fail to comply in a timely manner with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act regarding internal control over financial reporting or to remedy any material weaknesses in our internal controls that we may identify, such failure could result in material misstatements in our financial statements, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and current SEC regulations, beginning with our annual report on Form 10-K for our fiscal period ending December 31, 2007, we will be required to prepare assessments regarding internal controls over financial reporting and beginning with our annual report on Form 10-K for our fiscal period ending December 31, 2008, furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. We have begun the process of documenting and testing our internal control procedures in order to satisfy these requirements, which is likely to result in increased general and administrative expenses and may shift management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. While our management is expending significant resources in an effort to complete this important project, there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve our objective on a timely basis. There also can be no assurance that our auditors will be able to issue an unqualified opinion on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment or complete our Section 404 certifications could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. 8 In addition, in connection with our on-going assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, we may discover “material weaknesses” in our internal controls as defined in standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or the PCAOB. A material weakness is a significant deficiency, or combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. The PCAOB defines “significant deficiency” as a deficiency that results in more than a remote likelihood that a misstatement of the financial statements that is more than inconsequential will not be prevented or detected. In the event that a material weakness is identified, we will employ qualified personnel and adopt and implement policies and procedures to address any material weaknesses that we identify. However, the process of designing and implementing effective internal controls is a continuous effort that requires us to anticipate and react to changes in our business and the economic and regulatory environments and to expend significant resources to maintain a system of internal controls that is adequate to satisfy our reporting obligations as a public company. We cannot assure you that the measures we will take will remediate any material weaknesses that we may identify or that we will implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial process and reporting in the future. Any failure to complete our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, to remediate any material weaknesses that we may identify or to implement new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of the periodic management evaluations of our internal controls and, in the case of a failure to remediate any material weaknesses that we may identify, would adversely affect the annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting that are required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Inadequate internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading p rice of our common stock. Operating History And Lack Of Profits Which Could Lead To Wide Fluctuations In Our Share Price. The Price At Which You Purchase Our Common Shares May Not Be Indicative Of The Price That Will Prevail In The Trading Market. You May Be Unable To Sell Your Common Shares At Or Above Your Purchase Price, Which May Result In Substantial Losses To You. The Market Price For Our Common Shares Is Particularly Volatile Given Our Status As A Relatively Unknown Company With A Small And Thinly Traded Public Float. The market for our common shares is characterized by significant price volatility when compared to seasoned issuers, and we expect that our share price will continue to be more volatile than a seasoned issuer for the indefinite future. The volatility in our share price is attributable to a number of factors. First, as noted above, our common shares are sporadically and thinly traded. As a consequence of this lack of liquidity, the trading of relatively small quantities of shares by our shareholders may disproportionately influence the price of those shares in either direction. The price for our shares could, for example, decline precipitously in the event that a large number of our common shares are sold on the market without commensurate demand, as compared to a seasoned issuer which could better absorb those sales without adverse impact on its share price. Secondly, we are a speculative or “risky” investment due to our limited operating history and lack of profits to date, and uncertainty of future market acceptance for our potential products. As a consequence of this enhanced risk, more risk-adverse investors may, under the fear of losing all or most of their investment in the event of negative news or lack of progress, be more inclined to sell their shares on the market more quickly and at greater discounts than would be the case with the stock of a seasoned issuer. Many of these factors are beyond our control and may decrease the market price of our common shares, regardless of our operating performance. We cannot make any predictions or projections as to what the prevailing market price for our common shares will be at any time, including as to whether our common shares will sustain their current market prices, or as to what effect that the sale of shares or the availability of common shares for sale at any time will have on the prevailing market price. Shareholders should be aware that, according to SEC Release No. 34-29093, the market for penny stocks has suffered in recent years from patterns of fraud and abuse. Such patterns include (1) control of the market for the security by one or a few broker-dealers that are often related to the promoter or issuer; (2) manipulation of prices through prearranged matching of purchases and sales and false and misleading press releases; (3) boiler room practices involving high-pressure sales tactics and unrealistic price projections by inexperienced sales persons; (4) excessive and undisclosed bid-ask differential and markups by selling broker-dealers; and (5) the wholesale dumping of the same securities by promoters and broker-dealers after prices have been manipulated to a desired 9 level, along with the resulting inevitable collapse of those prices and with consequent investor losses. Our management is aware of the abuses that have occurred historically in the penny stock market. Although we do not expect to be in a position to dictate the behavior of the market or of broker-dealers who participate in the market, management will strive within the confines of practical limitations to prevent the described patterns from being established with respect to our securities. The occurrence of these patterns or practices could increase the volatility of our share price. The Report Of Our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Contains Explanatory Language That Substantial Doubt Exists About Our Ability To Continue As A Going Concern The independent auditor’s report on our financial statements contains explanatory language that substantial doubt exists about our ability to continue as a going concern. The report states that we depend on the continued contributions of our executive officers to work effectively as a team, to execute our business strategy and to manage our business. The loss of key personnel, or their failure to work effectively, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we are unable to obtain sufficient financing in the near term or achieve profitability, then we would, in all likelihood, experience severe liquidity problems and may have to curtail our operations. If we curtail our operations, we may be placed into bankruptcy or undergo liquidation, the result of which will adversely affect the value of our common shares. Our operations, revenue and profitability could be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations in the countries where we do business. The governments of countries into which we sell our products, including the United States, Canada, Asia and the European Union, from time to time, consider regulatory proposals relating to raw materials, food safety and markets, and environmental regulations, which, if adopted, could lead to disruptions in distribution of our products and increase our operational costs, which, in turn, could affect our profitability. To the extent that we increase our product prices as a result of such changes, our sales volume and revenues may be adversely affected. Furthermore, these governments may change import regulations or impose additional taxes or duties on certain Chinese imports from time to time. For example, in 2004, the United States government imposed heavy tariffs of more than 100 percent on certain Chinese shrimp exporters. Similar regulations and fees or new regulatory developments may have a material adverse impact on our operations, revenue and profitability. There could be changes in the policies of the PRC government that may adversely affect our business. The aquaculture industry in the PRC is subject to policies implemented by the PRC government. The PRC government may, for instance, impose control over aspects of our business such as distribution of raw materials, product pricing and sales. On the other hand, the PRC government may also make available subsidies or preferential treatment, which could be in the form of tax benefits or favorable financing arrangements. If the raw materials used by us or our products become subject to any form of government control, then depending on the nature and extent of the control and our ability to make corresponding adjustments, there could be a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Separately, our business and operating results also could be adversely affected by changes in policies of the Chinese government such as: changes in laws, regulations or the interpretation thereof; confiscatory taxation; restrictions on currency conversion, imports on sources of supplies; or the expropriation or nationalization of private enterprises. Although the Chinese government has been pursuing economic reform policies for approximately two decades to liberalize the economy and introduce free market aspects, there is no assurance that the government will continue to pursue such policies or that such policies may not be significantly altered, especially in the event of a change in leadership, social or political disruption, or other circumstances affecting China’s political, economic and social life. Certain political and economic considerations relating to PRC could adversely affect our company. The PRC is passing from a planned economy to a market economy. The Chinese government has confirmed that economic development will follow a model of market economy under socialism. While the PRC government has pursued economic reforms since its adoption of the open-door policy in 1978, a large portion of the PRC economy is still operating under five-year plans and annual state plans adopted by the government that set down national economic development goals. Through these plans and other economic measures, such as control on foreign 10 exchange, taxation and restrictions on foreign participation in the domestic market of various industries, the PRC government exerts considerable direct and indirect influence on the economy. Many of the economic reforms are unprecedented or experimental for the PRC government, and are expected to be refined and improved. Other political, economic and social factors can also lead to further readjustment of such reforms. This refining and readjustment process may not necessarily have a positive effect on our operations or future business development. Our operating results may be adversely affected by changes in the PRC’s economic and social conditions as well as by changes in the policies of the PRC government, which we may not be able to foresee, such as changes in laws and regulations (or the official interpretation thereof), measures which may be introduced to control inflation, changes in the rate or method of taxation, and imposition of additional res trictions on currency conversion. The recent nature and uncertain application of many PRC laws applicable to us create an uncertain environment for business operations and they could have a negative effect on us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system. Unlike the common law system, such as the legal system used in the United States, the civil law system is based on written statutes in which decided legal cases have little value as precedents. In 1979, the PRC began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and has since introduced many laws and regulations to provide general guidance on economic and business practices in the PRC and to regulate foreign investment. Progress has been made in the promulgation of laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. The promulgation of new laws, changes of existing laws and the abrogation of local regulations by national laws could have a negative impact on our business and business prospects. In addition, as these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent, their interpretation and enforcement involve s ignificant uncertainty. If relations between the United States and China worsen, our stock price may decrease and we may have difficulty accessing the U.S. capital markets. At various times during recent years, the United States and China have had disagreements over political and economic issues. Controversies may arise in the future between these two countries. Any political or trade controversies between the United States and China could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to access U.S. capital markets. Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of the PRC. Currently, the Renminbi is not a freely convertible currency. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict our ability to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends, or otherwise satisfy foreign currency denominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from the transaction, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate governmental authorities is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans and corporate d ebt obligations denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay certain of our expenses as they come due. The fluctuation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect your investment. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in the PRC’s political and economic conditions. Any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues and financial condition. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi, the U.S. dollar equivalent of the Renminbi we convert would be reduced. Any significant devaluation of Renminbi may reduce our operation costs in U.S. dollars but may also reduce our earnings in U.S. dollars. In addition, the depreciation of significant U.S. dollar denominated assets could result in a charge to our income statement and a reduction in the value of these assets. Commencing from July 21, 2005, China has adopted a managed floating exchange rate regime based on market demand and supply with reference to a basket of currencies. The exchange rate of the US dollar against the RMB was adjusted from approximately RMB 8.28 per US dollar to approximately RMB 8.11 per US dollar on July 21, 2005. Since then, the PBOC administers and regulates the exchange rate of US dollar against RMB taking into account demand and supply of RMB, as well as domestic and foreign economic and financial conditions. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient foreign exchange to pay dividends or satisfy other foreign exchange requirements in the future and we currently do not intend to pay dividends. It may be difficult to effect service of process and enforcement of legal judgments upon our company and our officers and directors because some of them reside outside the United States. Since part of our operations are presently based in China and some of our key directors and officers reside outside the United States, service of process on our key directors and officers may be difficult to effect within the United States. Also, some of our assets are located outside the United States and any judgment obtained in the United States against us may not be enforceable outside the United States. We have appointed Keith Wong, our Chief Executive Officer and President, as our agent to receive service of process in any action against our company in the United States. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements regarding management’s plans and objectives for future operations including plans and objectives relating to our planned marketing efforts and future economic performance. The forward-looking statements and associated risks set forth in this Annual Report include or relate to, among other things, (a) our growth strategies, (b) anticipated trends in our industry, (c) our ability to obtain and retain sufficient capital for future operations, and (d) our anticipated needs for working capital. These statements may be found under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis or Plan of Operations” and “Business,” as well as in this Annual Report generally. Actual events or results may differ materially from those discussed in forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including, without limitation, the risks outlined under “Risk Factors” ; and matters described in this Annual Report generally. In light of these risks and uncertainties, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report will in fact occur. The forward-looking statements herein are based on current expectations that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Such forward-looking statements are based on assumptions described herein. The assumptions are based on judgments with respect to, among other things, future economic, competitive and market conditions, and future business decisions, all of which are difficult or impossible to predict accurately and many of which are beyond our control. Accordingly, although we believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any such assumption could prove to be inaccurate and therefore there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in forward-looking statements will be realized. In addition, as disclosed elsewhere in the “Risk Factors” section of this prospectus, there are a number of other risks inherent in our business and operations which could cause our operating results to vary markedly and adv ersely from prior results or the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements. Management decisions, including budgeting, are subjective in many respects and periodic revisions must be made to reflect actual conditions and business developments, the impact of which may cause us to alter marketing, capital investment and other expenditures, which may also materially adversely affect our results of operations. In light of significant uncertainties inherent in the forward-looking information included in this prospectus, the inclusion of such information should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that our objectives or plans will be achieved. Some of the information in this annual report contains forward-looking statements that involve substantial risks and uncertainties. Any statement in this prospectus and in the documents incorporated by reference into this prospectus that is not a statement of an historical fact constitutes a “forward-looking statement”. Further, when we use the words “may”, “expect”, “anticipate”, “plan”, “believe”, “seek”, “estimate”, “internal”, and similar words, we intend to 12 identify statements and expressions that may be forward- looking statements. We believe it is important to communicate certain of our expectations to our investors. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. They involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our future results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Many factors are beyond our ability to control or predict. You are accordingly cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. Important factors that may cause our actual results to differ from such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the risk factors discussed herein. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 