Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors should be considered carefully in addition to the other information contained in this report. This report contains forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements relate to future events or our future financial performance. We generally identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “expects,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “could,” “intends,” “target,” “projects,” “contemplates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “potential” or “continue” or the negative of these terms or other similar words. These statements are only predictions. The outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements is subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our, our customers’ or our industry’s actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements, to differ. “Risk Factors,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Business,” as well as other sections in this report, discuss some of the factors that could contribute to these differences. The forward-looking statements made in this report relate only to events as of the date on which the statements are made. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which the statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. This report also contains market data related to our business and industry. These market data include projections that are based on a number of assumptions. If these assumptions turn out to be incorrect, actual results may differ from the projections based on these assumptions. As a result, our markets may not grow at the rates projected by these data, or at all. The failure of these markets to grow at these projected rates may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the market price of our Common Stock. We have incurred losses, and these losses may continue. We have incurred losses in each of our fiscal years since inception. Losses continued to incure in 2007. There is no assurance that profitability will be achieved in the near term, if at all. Because unfavorable utility regulations make the installation of our systems more difficult or economic, any slowdown in the utility deregulation process would be an impediment to the growth of our business. In the past, many electric utility companies have raised opposition to distributed generation, a critical element of our on-site utility business. Such resistance has generally taken the form of unrealistic standards for interconnection, and the use of targeted rate structures as disincentives to combined generation of on-site power and heating-cooling services. A DG company’s ability to obtain reliable and affordable back-up power through interconnection with the grid is essential to our business model. Utility policies and regulations in most states are often not prepared to accommodate widespread onsite generation. These barriers erected by electric utility companies and unfavorable regulations, where applicable, make more difficult or uneconomic our ability to connect to the electric grid at customer sites and are an impediment to the growth of our business. Development of our business could be adversely affected by any slowdown or reversal in the utility deregulation process or by difficulties in negotiating backup power supply agreements with electric providers in the areas where we intend to do business. Effective March 7, 2007, there were new air quality and permitting requirements in New Jersey that required adding emission control equipment on our already existing 18 cogeneration systems operating in New Jersey and any new energy systems we install in that state. In order to interpret and comply with the new emission requirements, we retained an independent environmental engineering consultant to review our existing installations, as well as all new construction. Of the existing 18 systems previously identified, a total of 9 systems in two locations were affected by the new regulations. The first location at a hospital has been outfitted with commercially available dry catalyst technology, all permits have been obtained and the project has returned to full capacity and is generating revenue. The second location at a large housing complex was in the final permitting phase at year-end 2007. Our onsite utility concept is largely unproven and may not be accepted by a sufficient number of customers. The sale of cogeneration and cooling equipment has been successfully carried out for more than a decade. However, our on-site utility concept (i.e., the sale of on-site energy services, rather than equipment) is still in an early stage of implementation. Unresolved issues include the pricing of energy services and the structuring of contracts to provide cost savings to customers and optimum financial returns to us. There is no assurance that we will be successful in developing a profitable on-site utility business model, and failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. 10 The economic viability of our projects depends on the price spread between fuel and electricity, and the variability of the prices of these components creates a risk that our projects will be uneconomic. The economic viability of DG projects is dependent upon the price spread between fuel and electricity prices. Volatility in one component of the spread, the cost of natural gas and other fuels (e.g., propane or distillate oil) can be managed to a greater or lesser extent by means of futures contracts. However, the regional rates charged for both base load and peak electricity services may decline periodically due to excess capacity arising from over-building of utility power plants or recessions in economic activity. Any sustained weakness in electricity prices could significantly limit the market for our cogeneration, cooling equipment and on-site utility energy services. We may fail to make sales to certain prospective customers because of resistance from facilities management personnel to the outsourcing of their service function. Any outsourcing of non-core activities by institutional or commercial entities will generally lead to reductions in permanent on-site staff employment. As a result, our proposals to implement on-site utility contracts are likely to encounter strong initial resistance from the facilities managers whose jobs will be threatened by energy outsourcing. The growth of our business will depend upon our ability to overcome such barriers among prospective customers. Future government regulations, such as increased emissions standards, safety standards and taxes, may adversely impact the economics of our business. The operation of distributed generation equipment at our customers’ sites may be subject to future changes in federal, state and local laws and regulations (e.g., emissions, safety, taxes, etc.). Any such new or substantially altered rules and standards may adversely affect our revenues, profits and general financial condition. If we cannot expand our network of skilled technical support personnel, we will be unable to grow our business. Each additional customer site for our services requires the initial installation and subsequent maintenance and service of equipment to be provided by a team of technicians skilled in a broad range of technologies, including combustion, instrumentation, heat transfer, information processing, microprocessor controls, fluid systems and other elements of distributed generation. If we are unable to recruit, train, motivate, sub-contract, and retain such personnel in each of the regional markets where our business operates we will be unable to grow our business in those markets. The company operates in highly competitive markets and may be unable to successfully compete against competitors having significantly greater resources and experience. Our business may be limited by competition from energy services companies arising from the breakup of conventional regulated electric utilities. Such competitors, both in the equipment and energy services sectors, are likely to have far greater financial and other resources than us, and could possess specialized market knowledge with existing channels of access to prospective customer locations. We may be unable to successfully compete against those competitors. Future technology changes may render obsolete various elements of equipment comprising our on-site utility installations. We must select equipment for our DG projects so as to achieve attractive operating efficiencies, while avoiding excessive downtimes from the failure of unproven technologies. If we are unable to achieve a proper balance between the cost, efficiency, and reliability of equipment selected for our projects, our growth and profitability will be adversely impacted. We have limited historical operating results upon which to base projections of future financial performance, making it difficult for prospective investors to assess the value of our stock. Our experience is primarily on-site energy services, and we have only four years of actual operating experience. These limitations make developing financial projections more difficult. We will expand our business infrastructure based on these projections. If these projections prove to be inaccurate, we will sustain additional losses and will jeopardize the success of our business. 11 We will need to raise additional capital for our business, which will dilute existing shareholders. Additional financings will be required to implement our overall business plan. We will need additional capital. Equity financings will dilute the percentage ownership of our existing shareholders. Our ability to raise an adequate amount of capital and the terms of any capital that we are able to raise will be dependent upon our progress in implementing demonstration projects and related marketing service development activities. If we do not make adequate progress, we may be unable to raise adequate funds, which will limit our ability to expand our business. If the terms of any equity financings are unfavorable, the dilutive impact on our shareholders might be severe. We may make acquisitions that could harm our financial performance. In order to expedite development of our corporate infrastructure, particularly with regard to equipment installation and service functions, we anticipate the future acquisition of complementary businesses. Risks associated with such acquisitions include the disruption of our existing operations, loss of key personnel in the acquired companies, dilution through the issuance of additional securities, assumptions of existing liabilities and commitment to further operating expenses. If any or all of these problems actually occur, acquisitions could negatively impact our financial performance and future stock value. We are controlled by a small group of majority shareholders, and our minority shareholders will be unable to effect changes in our governance structure or implement actions that require shareholder approval, such as a sale of the company. George Hatsopoulos and John Hatsopoulos, who are brothers, beneficially own a majority of our outstanding shares of common stock. These stockholders have the ability to control various corporate decisions, including our direction and policies, the election of directors, the content of our charter and bylaws, and the outcome of any other matter requiring shareholder approval, including a merger, consolidation, and sale of substantially all of our assets or other change of control transaction. The concurrence of our minority shareholders will not be required for any of these decisions. We may be exposed to substantial liability claims if we fail to fulfill our obligations to our customers. We intend to enter into contracts with large commercial and not-for-profit customers under which we will assume responsibility for meeting a portion of the customers’ building energy demand and equipment installation. We may be exposed to substantial liability claims if we fail to fulfill our obligations to customers. There can be no assurance that we will not be vulnerable to claims by customers and by third parties that are beyond any contractual protections that we are able to negotiate. We may be unable to obtain liability and other insurance on terms and at prices that are commercially acceptable to us. As a result, liability claims could cause us significant financial harm. Investment in our common stock is subject to price fluctuations which have been significant for development stage companies like us. Historically, valuations of many companies in the development stage have been highly volatile. The securities of many of these companies have experienced significant price and trading volume fluctuations, unrelated to the operating performance or the prospects of such companies. If the conditions in the equity markets deteriorate, we may be unable to finance our additional funding needs in the private or the public markets. There can be no assurance that any future offering will be consummated or, if consummated, will be at a share price equal or superior to the price paid by our investors even if we meet our technological and marketing goals. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board which may have an unfavorable impact on our stock price and liquidity. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. The OTC Bulletin Board is a significantly more limited market than the New York Stock Exchange or NASDAQ system. The quotation of our shares on the OTC Bulletin Board may result in a less liquid market available for existing and potential stockholders to trade shares of our common stock, could depress the trading price of our common stock and could have a long-term adverse impact on our ability to raise capital in the future. Trading in stock quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board is often thin and characterized by wide fluctuations in trading prices, due to many factors that may have little to do with our operations or business prospects. Moreover, the OTC Bulletin Board is not a stock exchange, and trading of securities on the OTC Bulletin Board is often more sporadic than the trading of securities listed on a quotation system or a stock exchange. 12 Future sales of common stock by our existing stockholders may cause our stock price to fall. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by our existing stockholders of shares of common stock in the market or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate and thus inhibit our ability to raise additional capital when it is needed. We have never paid dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have paid no cash dividends on our capital stock to date and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. In addition, the terms of any future debt or credit facility may preclude us from paying these dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. Because we do not intend to pay cash dividends, our stockholders will receive no current income from holding our stock. We have never paid or declared any cash dividends. We currently expect to retain earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business, and therefore do not anticipate paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. Trading of our common stock is restricted by the SEC’S “penny stock” regulations which may limit a stockholder’s ability to buy and sell our stock. The Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) has adopted regulations which generally define “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Our securities are covered by the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document in a form prepared by the Securities and Exchange Commission that provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and other quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statement showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. The bid and offer quotations, and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information, must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer’s confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure and suitability requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for a stock that is subject to these penny stock rules. Consequently, these penny stock rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to trade our securities. We believe that the penny stock rules discourage investor interest in and limit the marketability of our capital stock. Trading of our capital stock is restricted by the SEC’S “penny stock” regulations which may limit a stockholder’s ability to buy and sell our stock. There has been a material weakness in our financial controls and procedures, which could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. As of the end of the period covered by this report, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have performed an evaluation of controls and procedures and concluded that our controls are effective to give reasonable assurance that the information required to be disclosed by our company in reports that we file under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) is recorded, processed, summarized and reported as when required. However, there is a lack of segregation of duties at the company due to the small number of employees dealing with general administrative and financial matters. Furthermore, the company did not have personnel with an appropriate level of accounting knowledge, experience and training in the selection, application and implementation of GAAP as it relates to complex transactions and financial reporting requirements. This constitutes a material weakness in financial reporting. Any failure to implement effective internal controls could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inadequate internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock, and may require us to incur additional costs to improve our internal control system. 13 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 