Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our equity securities could decline. Investors and prospective investors should carefully consider the following risks, the risks referred to elsewhere in this Annual Report and the information contained under the heading "Warning Concerning Forward Looking Statements" before deciding whether to invest in our securities. Risks in our business Our operations have produced losses. Since we began operations on January 31, 2007, our business has produced losses in every year except 2011. Although some of our historical results were impacted by separation obligations with our former management, business reorganizations and other costs that we do not expect to continue, we believe our losses in prior periods were also the result of the general decline of the U.S. and world economies over which we have no control. We can not provide any assurance that we will be able to operate profitably in future periods. Our financial results are being affected by the current U.S. economic condition. The trucking industry is the primary customer for our goods and services. Demand for trucking services in the U.S. generally reflects the amount of commercial activity in the U.S. economy. When the U.S. economy declines, demand for our products and services declines. For example, in the recent past declines in housing construction led to less lumber and construction materials being shipped, and these reduced shipments resulted in fewer customers and lower sales volumes at our travel centers. While the U.S. economy recently has been slowly growing over the past several quarters and trucking activity measures reflect growth in that industry, recent economic activity is still below pre-recession levels and the strength and sustainability of any economic recovery is uncertain. If the U.S. economy continues to operate as it has over the past few years, or if it worsens, our financial results may not improve and may decline. Reduced consumer spending has resulted in less imported consumer goods into the U.S. and less business at our travel centers; protectionist legislation could materially reduce imports and reduce our business. During the past 20 years, increasing world trade has resulted in large increases in the importing into the U.S. of consumer goods, many of which are transported within the U.S. by truck. The recent recession and slow U.S. economic recovery has lessened the demand for consumer goods imported into the U.S. and this decline is adversely affecting our business of supplying goods and services to truckers. Increases in U.S. exports have not offset this lost business, as many U.S. exports, for example commodities and heavy equipment, generally are not shipped by truck. If the volume of imported goods into the U.S. does not increase, our financial results may not improve. Also, recent protectionist legislation such as was included in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and various proposals for laws to encourage purchasing of domestically manufactured goods rather than imported products may reduce imports and adversely affect our business. Consolidation of our competitors may negatively affect our business. Effective July 1, 2010, two of our competitors, Pilot Travel Centers LLC and Flying J Inc., completed a merger, creating a company called Pilot Flying J. That merger combined the first and second largest participants in our industry, based on diesel fuel sales volume. As a result of this combination, we may see increased competitive pressure that could negatively impact our sales volumes and profitability and could increase our level of operating and selling, general and administrative 23 Table of Contents expenses. In addition, most of our trucking customers transact business with us by use of fuel cards, which are issued by third party fuel card companies. The fuel card industry has only a few significant participants, including Comdata Network, Inc., or Comdata, the largest issuer of fuel cards, and Transportation Clearing House LLC, or TCH, a company affiliated with Pilot Flying J. We are unable to determine the full extent and effect the combined Pilot Flying J may have on our financial position, results of operations, or competitive position, although we expect the combination may significantly alter the competitive conditions in the travel center industry. Further, we are unable to determine the extent of the effect that competition, or lack thereof, between Comdata and TCH in particular, may result in future increases in our transaction fee expenses or working capital requirements, or both. In December 2010, we entered a new contract with Comdata that increased our operating expenses and our working capital requirements in 2011, as compared to 2010. Fuel price increases and fuel price volatility negatively affect our business. High fuel prices and the inability to project future prices have several adverse impacts upon our business. First, high fuel prices result in higher truck shipping costs. This causes shippers to consider alternative means for transporting freight, which reduces trucking business and, in turn, reduces our business. Second, high fuel prices cause our trucking customers to seek cost savings throughout their businesses. This has resulted in many customer measures to conserve fuel, such as lower maximum driving speeds and reduced truck engine idling reducing total fuel consumption and our fuel sales. Third, higher fuel prices may result in less disposable income for our customers to purchase our nonfuel goods and services. Fourth, higher and more volatile fuel commodity prices increase the working capital needed to maintain our fuel inventories and receivables, and this increases our costs of doing business. If fuel commodity prices or fuel price volatility increase, our financial results may not improve and may worsen. Our labor costs are difficult to control. During 2008 and 2009 we implemented labor cost savings initiatives in our salaried and hourly workforce in an effort to match the declines in our business volumes. These initiatives generally remained in effect in 2011. However, to maintain and manage our operations requires certain minimum staffing levels to operate our travel centers 24 hours per day, 365 days per year. We believe it will be increasingly difficult for us to make additional staff reductions without adversely affecting our business prospects. Also, certain opportunities for sales may be lost when labor is reduced. For these reasons, our labor costs are difficult to control and we may suffer losses. Our travel centers require regular and expensive maintenance and capital investments. Our travel centers are open for business 24 hours per day, 365 days per year. Also, many of our travel centers were originally constructed more than 25 years ago. Because of the age of many of our travel centers and because of the nature and intensity of our uses of our travel centers, our travel centers require regular expenditures for maintenance and capital investments to remain functional and attractive to customers. If we can not access capital necessary to maintain our properties, our business may decline and our profits may decline or we may incur losses. Also, deferring certain capital expenditures in the near term may require us to make larger amounts of capital expenditures in the future. Although we may request that HPT purchase future renovations, improvements and equipment at the travel centers that we lease from HPT, HPT is not obligated to purchase any amounts and any amounts it purchases will result in an increase in our rent payable to HPT. 24 Table of Contents Our operating margins are narrow. Our total operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011, were $7.9 billion, while the sum of our cost of goods sold (excluding depreciation) and site level operating expenses for the same period totaled $7.5 billion. Fuel sales in particular generate low gross margins. Our fuel sales for the year ended December 31, 2011, were $6.6 billion and our gross margin on fuel sales was $301 million, or approximately 4.6% of fuel sales. A small percentage decline in our future revenues or increase in our future expenses, especially revenues and expenses related to fuel, may cause our profits to decline or us to incur losses. An interruption in our fuel supplies would materially adversely affect our business. To mitigate the risks arising from fuel price volatility, we generally maintain limited fuel inventories. Accordingly, an interruption in our fuel supplies would materially adversely affect our business. Interruptions in fuel supplies may be caused by local conditions, such as a malfunction in a particular pipeline or terminal, by weather related events, such as hurricanes in the areas where petroleum is extracted or refined, or by national or international conditions, such as government rationing, acts of terrorism, wars and the like. Any limitation in available fuel supplies or on the fuel we can offer for sale may cause our profits to decline or us to experience losses. We are involved in litigation which is expensive and may have adverse impacts upon our business. We are currently involved in litigation which is expensive and which may have adverse consequences to us. If these litigation matters or new litigation matters continue for extended periods or if they result in judgments adverse to us, our profits may decline or we may experience losses. In addition, in our experience, the risk of litigation is greater in certain jurisdictions, such as the State of California. We have significant operations in the State of California and have in the past been, are currently and may in the future be, party to employee and other litigation in that state or elsewhere. Although to date our litigation matters in the State of California have not resulted in settlements or judgments against us which have had, or which we expect would reasonably be likely to have, a material adverse effect on our business, there can be no assurance that they will not have such an effect or that litigation elsewhere would not have such an effect on us. See below Item 3, "Legal Proceedings." We rely upon trade creditors for a significant amount of our working capital and the availability of alternative sources of financing may be limited. Our fuel purchases are our largest operating cost. Historically, we have paid for our fuel purchases after delivery. In the past, as our fuel costs increased with the increase in commodity market prices, some of our fuel suppliers were unwilling to adjust the amounts of our available trade credit to accommodate the increased costs of the fuel volumes that we purchase; for example, a $10 million amount of trade credit will allow us to purchase 5 million gallons of fuel at $2.00 per gallon, but only 3.33 million gallons at $3.00 per gallon. Also, our historical financial results and general U.S. economic conditions have caused some fuel suppliers to request letters of credit or other forms of security for our purchases. We cannot predict how high or low fuel prices may be in the future, and fuel commodity prices significantly impact our working capital requirements. In light of the recent and current economic, industry and global credit market conditions and our historical operating losses, the availability and terms of any credit we may be able to obtain are uncertain. Although we maintain a credit facility permitting borrowings of up to $200 million, we typically utilize a large portion of that facility for issuances of letters of credit to our fuel suppliers to secure our fuel purchases and to taxing authorities (or bonding companies) for fuel taxes. In addition, our qualified collateral historically has been frequently below the amount required to permit the entire $200 million under the credit facility to be available to us for borrowings. Any increased investment in 25 Table of Contents working capital decreases our financial flexibility to use our capital for other business purposes or to fund our operations and may cause us to suffer losses. Our credit facility is secured by substantially all of our cash, accounts receivable, inventory, equipment and intangible assets and imposes restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness or to grant security interests in our assets. Further, under the HPT Leases, subject to certain exceptions, our tenant subsidiaries may not incur debt secured by any of their assets used in the operation of the leased travel centers without HPT's consent. Because security interests in a significant amount of our assets have already been granted and we are contractually limited in our ability to incur additional debt or grant security interests, our ability to obtain additional financing may be limited. Our customers may become unable to pay us when we extend credit. We sell some of our products on credit. Customers purchasing fuel or other goods or services on credit from us may default on their obligations to pay, or they may extend the payment periods, for products sold to them on credit. In light of the recessionary economic conditions that have existed recently in the U.S. generally and the trucking industry specifically and the slow growth rate in the U.S. economy since the recession, the risk that some of our customers may not pay us is greater at present than it has been historically. Also, to the extent that we are unable to collect receivables owed to us in a timely fashion, we may be required to increase amounts invested in our working capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our storage and dispensing of petroleum products create the potential for environmental damages, and compliance with environmental laws is often expensive. Our business is subject to laws relating to the protection of the environment. The travel centers we operate include fueling areas, truck repair and maintenance facilities and tanks for the storage of petroleum products and other hazardous substances, all of which create the potential for environmental damage. As a result, we regularly incur environmental clean up costs. Our balance sheet as of December 31, 2011, included an accrued liability of $8.9 million for environmental remediation and related costs. Because of the uncertainties associated with environmental expenditures, it is possible that future expenditures could be substantially higher than this amount. Environmental laws expose us to the possibility that we may become liable to reimburse governments or others for damages and costs they incur in connection with environmental hazards or liable for fines and penalties for failure to comply with environmental laws. We cannot predict what environmental legislation or regulations may be enacted or how existing laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted with respect to our products or activities in the future; more stringent laws, more vigorous enforcement policies or stricter interpretation of existing laws in the future could cause us to expend significant amounts or experience losses. In our experience, the risk of being subject to regulatory review and proceedings for environmental related matters is greater in certain jurisdictions, such as the State of California. We have significant operations in the State of California and are currently and have in the past been subject to regulatory review and proceedings for environmental related matters and may in the future be subject to similar reviews and proceedings in that state or elsewhere. Although to date our environmental regulatory matters in the State of California have not resulted in settlements or judgments against us, or otherwise resulted in our paying or agreeing to pay amounts, which have had, or which we expect would reasonably be likely to have, a material adverse effect on our business, there can be no assurance that they will not have such an effect or that environmental regulatory reviews or proceedings elsewhere would not have such an effect on us. Under the leases between us and HPT, we have agreed to indemnify HPT from environmental liabilities it may incur arising at any of our leased travel centers. Although we maintain insurance 26 Table of Contents policies which cover our environmental liabilities, that coverage may not adequately cover liabilities we may incur. To the extent we incur material amounts for environmental matters for which we do not receive insurance or other third party reimbursement or for which we have not set aside a reserve in prior years, our operating results may be materially adversely affected. In addition, to the extent we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations, or we become subject to costs and requirements not similarly experienced by our competitors, our competitive position may be harmed. Also, to the extent we are or become obligated to fund any such liabilities, such funding obligation could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial position. Our franchisees may become unable to pay our rents, franchise royalties and other fees and we have limited control of our franchisees. Ten travel centers which we lease from HPT are subleased to franchisees. A failure by our franchisees to pay rents to us would not affect our minimum rent payable to HPT. As of December 31, 2011, an additional 33 travel centers not owned by us or HPT are operated by franchisees. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the rent, franchise royalty and other fee revenue generated from these franchisee relationships was $14.4 million. We believe the difficult business conditions which have recently affected the locations which we operate, including the effects of recent U.S. economic conditions and high and volatile fuel commodity prices, have also adversely affected our franchisees and may make it difficult for our franchisees to pay the rent, franchise royalties and other fees due to us. In addition, our sublease and franchise agreements with our franchisees are subject to periodic renewal by us or the franchisee. For example, the current term of each of the franchise and sublease agreements we have with each of the 10 franchisees to whom we sublease the travel center terminate in the second half of 2012, and we do not now know how many, if any, of those agreements may be renewed or on what terms. Also, various laws and our existing franchise agreements limit the control we may exercise over our franchisees' business activities. A failure by our franchisees to pay rent, franchise royalties and other fees to us, or the termination or non-renewal of a significant number of our franchise agreements, may cause our profits to decline or us to experience losses. We may experience losses from our business dealings with AIC. We have invested approximately $5.2 million in Affiliates Insurance Company, or AIC, we have purchased substantially all of our property insurance in a program designed and reinsured in part by AIC and we are currently investigating the possibilities to expand our relationship with AIC to other types of insurance. We, RMR, HPT and four other companies to which RMR provides management services, each own approximately 14.29% of AIC and we and those other AIC shareholders participate in a combined insurance program designed and reinsured in part by AIC. Our principal reason for investing in AIC and for purchasing insurance in these programs is to seek to improve our financial results by obtaining improved insurance coverages at lower costs than may be otherwise available to us or by participating in any profits which we may realize as an owner of AIC. These beneficial financial results may not occur and we may need to invest additional capital in order to continue to pursue these results. AIC's business involves the risks typical of an insurance business, including the risk that it may be insufficiently capitalized. Accordingly, our anticipated financial benefits from our business dealings with AIC may be delayed or not achieved and we may experience losses from these dealings. We rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of information technology could harm our business. We rely on information technology networks and systems including the Internet, or IT systems, to process, transmit and store electronic information, including financial records and personal identifying information such as employee and payroll data and workforce scheduling information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes, including our supply chain, retail sales, credit card payments 27 Table of Contents and authorizations, financial transactions, banking and numerous other processes and transactions. We purchase some of the IT systems we use from vendors on whom our IT systems materially depend. We rely on commercially available and proprietary IT systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential customer information, such as payment card and credit information. In addition, the IT systems we use for transmission and approval of payment card transactions, and the technology utilized in payment cards themselves, may put payment card data at risk; and some of these IT systems are determined and controlled by the payment card suppliers and not by us. Although we have taken steps to protect and maintain the security of the IT systems we use and the data maintained in them, it is possible that our security measures will not prevent the improper functioning of or damage to the IT systems we use, or the improper access to such IT systems or disclosure of personally identifiable information, such as in the event of a cyber attack. Security breaches, including physical or electronic breakins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers and similar breaches, can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Any compromise or breach of our IT systems could cause material interruptions in our operations, damage our reputation, subject us to material liability claims or regulatory penalties, reduce our customers' willingness to conduct business with us and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, the failure of the IT systems we use to operate effectively, or problems we may experience with maintaining the IT systems we currently use or transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, could significantly harm our business and operations and cause us to incur significant costs to remediate such problems. Privatization of toll roads or of rest areas may negatively affect our business. Some states have privatized their toll roads which are part of the interstate highway system. We believe it is likely that tolls will increase on privatized highways. In addition, some states may increase tolls for their own account. If tolls are introduced or increased on highways in the proximity of our travel centers, our business at those travel centers may decline because truckers may seek alternative routes. Similarly, some states have privatized or are considering privatizing their publicly owned highway rest areas. If publicly owned rest areas along highways are privatized and converted to travel centers in the proximity of some of our travel centers, our business at those travel centers may decline and we may experience losses. Our sales could be harmed if our suppliers, franchisors or licensors become associated with negative publicity. We sell branded gasoline at some of our travel centers and most of our travel centers have QSRs. If the companies or brands associated with these products and offerings become associated with negative publicity, our customers may avoid purchasing these products and offerings, including at our travel centers, and may avoid visiting our travel centers because of our association with the particular company or brand, which could harm our sales and results of operations. We may have to expend significant amounts to comply with climate change and other environmental legislation and regulation; and the market reaction to such legislation and regulation and climate change concerns generally may require us to make significant capital or other expenditures and may adversely affect our business. Future climate change legislation and regulation, including those addressing greenhouse gas emissions, may require us to expend significant amounts. In addition, the market reaction to any such legislation or regulation or to climate change concerns generally may cause us to incur increased costs and capital expenditures. Increased costs incurred by our suppliers as a result of climate change or other environmental legislation or regulation may be passed on to us in the prices we pay for our fuel supplies, but we may not be able to pass on those increased costs to our customers. Increased fuel costs 28 Table of Contents resulting from these reasons would likely have similar effects on our business, operations and liquidity as discussed elsewhere regarding high fuel costs, including decreased demand for our fuel at our travel centers, increased working capital needs and decreased fuel gross margins. Further, legislation and regulations that limit carbon emissions may cause our energy costs at our travel centers to increase. Moreover, technological changes developed or changes in customer transportation or fueling preferences, including as a result of or in response to any such legislation, regulation or market reaction, may require us to make significant capital or other expenditures to adopt those technologies or to address those changed preferences and may decrease the demand for products and services sold at our travel centers. For example, federal and state governmental requirements addressing emissions from trucks and other motor vehicles, such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's gasoline and diesel sulfur control requirements that limit the concentration of sulfur in motor gasoline and diesel fuel, could negatively impact our business by making the fuel more expensive and causing our customers to buy less. We may be unable to utilize our net operating loss carry forwards. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, imposes limitations on the ability of a company taxable as a corporation that undergoes an "ownership change", as defined by the Code, to use its net operating loss carry forwards to reduce its tax liability. As a result of certain trading in our shares during 2007, we experienced an ownership change. Consequently, we are unable to use our net operating loss generated in 2007 to offset any future taxable income we may generate. If we experience additional ownership changes, our net operating losses generated after 2007 could also be subject to limitations on usage. Since the ownership change in 2007, we experienced a substantial amount of trading in our shares. In 2009, our bylaws were amended to impose certain restrictions on the transfer of our shares in order to help us preserve the tax treatment of our net operating losses and other tax benefits (see below for a discussion of the risks related to our ownership limitations under the heading "Risks arising from certain relationships of ours and our organization and structure"). The issuance of 10,000,000 of our shares in a public offering in May 2011 will count towards the trigger of an ownership change, but we do not expect that this issuance alone will result in an ownership change, as defined in the Code. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common shares in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common shares, and we currently do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Our shares have experienced significant price and trading volume volatility and may continue to do so. Since we became a publicly traded company in January 2007, our shares have experienced significant share price and trading volatility, which may continue. The market price of our common shares has fluctuated and could fluctuate significantly in the future in response to various factors and events, including, but not limited to, the risks set out in this Annual Report, as well as: •the liquidity of the market for our common shares; •changes in our operating results; •changes in analysts' expectations; and •general economic and industry trends and conditions. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources. 29 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting our financial reporting could be inaccurate. Internal control systems are intended to provide reasonable assurance regarding the preparation and fair presentation of published financial statements. We concluded that our internal controls over financial reporting were not effective as of December 31, 2011. As described in Item 9A of this Annual Report, during 2011 we identified certain deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting with respect to our historical methodology for impairment analysis of our property and equipment, our assigning of depreciable lives to leasehold assets and our amortization of our sale/leaseback financing obligation. We believe we have recorded appropriate adjustments so that the Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in Item 15 of this Annual Report present fairly, in all material respects, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the periods presented, and that we are taking appropriate actions to remediate the identified deficiencies in order to improve our internal control over financial reporting for future financial reporting; however, we cannot assure you that our actions will be completely effective or that we will not discover other material weaknesses in our controls. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting may be adversely affected, our business and financial condition could be harmed, investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and the market price of our common shares or other securities may decline. Risks arising from certain relationships of ours and our organization and structure We are obligated to pay material amounts of rent to HPT. The terms of our leases with HPT require us to pay all of our operating costs and generally fixed amounts of rent. During periods of business decline, like the one we experienced during the recent recession, our revenues and gross margins may decrease but our minimum rents due to HPT do not decline. A decline in our revenues or an increase in our expenses may make it difficult or impossible for us to meet all of our obligations and, if we default under our HPT leases, we may be unable to continue our business. Our business is subject to possible conflicts of interest with HPT and RMR. Our creation was, and our continuing business is, subject to possible conflicts of interest, as follows: •Two of our Directors were trustees of HPT at the time we were created. •We have five Directors: one of whom, Barry M. Portnoy, also is a managing trustee of HPT, Chairman, the majority owner and an employee of RMR; one of whom, Arthur G. Koumantzelis, is a former trustee of HPT; and one of whom, Thomas M. O'Brien, is a former executive officer of HPT. Further, Mr. Portnoy and all of our Independent Directors are members of the boards of trustees or boards of directors of other companies to which RMR provides management services. •Mr. O'Brien, who serves as our President and Chief Executive Officer, Andrew J. Rebholz, our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, and Mark R. Young, our Executive Vice President and General Counsel, are also officers of RMR. •We lease a large majority of our travel centers from HPT. •RMR provides us business and property management and shared services pursuant to a business management and shared services agreement and a property management agreement, and RMR provides business and property management services to HPT. 30 Table of Contents •In the event of conflicts between us and RMR, any affiliate of RMR or any publicly owned entity with which RMR has a relationship, including HPT, our business management and shared services agreement allows RMR to act on its own behalf and on behalf of HPT or such other entity rather than on our behalf. •RMR's simultaneous contractual obligations to us and HPT create potential conflicts of interest, or the appearance of such conflicts. In connection with the agreement we entered as part of the HPT Transaction, we granted HPT a right of first refusal to purchase, lease, mortgage or otherwise finance any interest we own in a travel center before we sell, lease, mortgage or otherwise finance that travel center with another party, and we granted HPT and other entities to which RMR provides management services a right of first refusal to acquire or finance any real estate of the types in which they invest before we do, which could limit our ability to purchase or finance our properties or properties we may wish to invest in or acquire in the future. Also, under this agreement we agreed not to take any action that might reasonably be expected to have a material adverse impact on HPT's ability to qualify as a real estate investment trust, or REIT. We believe that our historical and ongoing business dealings with HPT and RMR have benefited us and that, despite the foregoing possible conflicts of interest, the transactions we have entered with HPT and RMR since the HPT Transaction have been commercially reasonable and not less favorable than otherwise available to us. Nonetheless, in the past, in particular following periods of volatility in the overall market or declines in the market price of a company's securities, shareholder litigation, dissident director nominations and dissident proposals have often been instituted against companies alleging conflicts of interest in business dealings with affiliated persons and entities. Our relationship with Mr. Portnoy and with other companies to which RMR provides management services may precipitate such activities. These activities, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources even if the claims asserted are meritless. Territorial restrictions placed on us by our leases with HPT and our franchise agreements with our franchisees could impair our ability to grow our business. Under our leases with HPT, without the consent of HPT, we generally cannot own, franchise, finance, operate, lease or manage any travel center or similar property within 75 miles in either direction along the primary interstate on which a travel center owned by HPT is located. Under the terms of our franchise agreements for TA travel centers, generally we have agreed not to operate, or allow another person to operate, a travel center or travel center business that uses the TravelCenters of America or TA brand in a specified territory for that TA branded franchise location. Under the terms of our franchise agreements for Petro travel centers, generally we have agreed not to operate, or allow another person to operate, a travel center or travel center business that uses the Petro brand in a specified territory for that Petro branded franchise location. As a result of these restrictions, we may be unable to develop, acquire or franchise a travel center in an area in which an additional travel center may be profitable, thereby losing an opportunity for future growth of our business. We have significant commercial arrangements with RMR and HPT and we are dependent on those arrangements in operating our business. We are party to a business management and shared services agreement with RMR, whereby RMR assists us with various aspects of our business, and a property management agreement with RMR, whereby RMR manages our headquarters office building. One of our Directors is the majority owner and Chairman of RMR. One of our other Directors, President and Chief Executive Officer, our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer and our Executive Vice President and General Counsel are also officers of RMR. Most of the travel centers that we operate are leased by us, 31 Table of Contents principally from HPT. As a result of these factors, we are dependent on our arrangements with RMR and HPT in operating our business and any adverse developments in those arrangements could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to conduct our operations. Ownership limitations, anti-takeover and other provisions may prevent us from experiencing a change of control, our shareholders from effecting changes in our governance or related matters, and our shareholders from receiving a takeover premium. Our limited liability company agreement, or our LLC agreement, and bylaws include various provisions which may make it difficult for anyone to cause a change of control of us by means of a tender offer, open market share purchases, a proxy contest or otherwise, without the approval of our Board of Directors. Among others, these provisions include the following: •separate prohibitions on the ownership of 5% or more of our shares or in excess of 9.8% of any class or type of our equity securities by any person or group; •staggered terms for members of our Board of Directors; •qualifications to serve on our Board of Directors and a requirement that certain of our Directors be Managing Directors and Independent Directors; •the power of our Board of Directors, without shareholders' approval, to authorize and issue additional shares of any class or type on terms that it determines; •limitations on the ability of, and various requirements that must be satisfied in order for, our shareholders to propose nominees for election as Directors and propose other business to be considered at a meeting of shareholders; •a requirement that an individual Director may only be removed for cause and then only by unanimous vote of the other Directors; and a 75% shareholders' vote and cause requirements for removal of our entire Board of Directors; •a 75% shareholders' vote requirement for shareholder nominations and other proposals which are not approved by our Board of Directors; •the authority of our Board of Directors, and not our shareholders, to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws; •limitations on the ability of shareholders to cause a special meeting of shareholders to be held and a prohibition on shareholders acting by written consent unless the consent is a unanimous consent of all our shareholders entitled to vote on the matter; •because of our ownership of AIC, we are an insurance holding company under applicable state law; accordingly, anyone who intends to solicit proxies for a person to serve as one of our Directors or for another proposal of business not approved by our Board of Directors may be required to receive pre-clearance from the concerned insurance regulators; •requirements that shareholders comply with regulatory requirements (including Nevada and Louisiana gaming and Indiana insurance licensing requirements) affecting us which could effectively limit share ownership of us, including in some cases, to 5% of our outstanding shares; and •requirements that any person nominated to be a Director comply with clearance and pre-clearance requirements of state laws applicable to our business including clearance and pre-clearance by Nevada and Louisiana gambling authorities and Indiana insurance regulators. In addition, the HPT Leases, our shareholders agreement with respect to AIC, our business management and shared services agreement with RMR and our credit facility each provide that our 32 Table of Contents rights and benefits under those agreements may be terminated in the event that anyone acquires more than 9.8% of our shares or we experience some other change in control, as defined in those agreements, without the consent of HPT, RMR or the lenders under the credit facility, respectively, and that AIC and the other shareholders of AIC may have rights to acquire our interests in AIC if such an acquisition occurs or if we experience some other change of control. In addition, our obligation to repay deferred rent then outstanding under our amended leases with HPT may be accelerated if, among other things, a Director not nominated or appointed by the then members of our Board of Directors is elected to our Board of Directors or if our shareholders adopt a proposal (other than a precatory proposal) not recommended for adoption by the then members of our Board of Directors. For these reasons, among others, we may not experience a change of control, our shareholders may be unable to effect changes to our governance or related matters and our shareholders may be unable to realize a takeover premium for their shares. Our rights and the rights of our shareholders to take action against our Directors, officers, HPT and RMR are limited. Our LLC agreement eliminates the personal liability of each of our Directors to us and our shareholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as our Director, except for a breach of the Director's duty of loyalty to us or our shareholders as modified by our LLC agreement, for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involved intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, or for any transaction from which the Director derived an improper personal benefit. Our LLC agreement also provides that our Directors and officers, HPT, RMR, and the respective directors and officers of HPT and RMR shall not be liable for monetary damages to us or our shareholders for losses sustained or liabilities incurred as a result of any act or omission by any of them unless there has been a final, nonappealable judgment entered by a court determining that such person or entity acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud, willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that his, her or its conduct was unlawful. Our LLC agreement also generally requires us to indemnify, to the fullest extent permitted by law, our present and former Directors and officers, HPT, RMR, and the respective directors and officers of HPT and RMR for losses that may occur arising from claims or actions in which any of them may be involved in connection with any act or omission by such person or entity in good faith on behalf of or with respect to us. We also have similar obligations to our Directors and officers under individual indemnification agreements with such persons. In addition, we may be obligated to pay or reimburse the expenses incurred by our present and former Directors and officers, HPT, RMR, and the respective directors and officers of HPT and RMR without requiring a preliminary determination of their ultimate entitlement to indemnification. As a result, we and our shareholders may have more limited rights against our present and former Directors and officers, HPT, RMR, and the respective directors and officers of HPT and RMR than might otherwise exist absent the provisions in our LLC agreement or that might exist with other companies, which could limit our shareholders' recourse in the event of actions not in our shareholders' best interest. Disputes with HPT and RMR and shareholder litigation against us or our Directors and officers may be referred to arbitration proceedings. Our contracts with HPT and RMR provide that any dispute arising under those contracts may be referred to binding arbitration. Similarly, our LLC agreement and bylaws provide that actions by our shareholders against us or against our Directors and officers, including derivative and class actions, may be referred to binding arbitration. As a result, we and our shareholders would not be able to pursue litigation for these disputes in courts against HPT, RMR or our Directors or officers. In addition, the ability to collect attorneys' fees or other damages may be limited in the arbitration, which may discourage attorneys from agreeing to represent parties wishing to commence such a proceeding. 33 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 