Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our substantial indebtedness could affect our ability to meet our obligations and may otherwise restrict our activities. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of the end of 2012 fiscal year, we had total indebtedness (including current portion) of $4,471 with cash and cash equivalents totaling $87. We would have been able to borrow a further $426 under the revolving portion of our senior secured credit facilities, subject to the solvency of our lenders to fund their obligations and our borrowing base calculations. We are permitted by the terms of our debt instruments to incur substantial additional indebtedness, subject to the restrictions therein. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: · limit our ability to borrow money for our working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other corporate purposes; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the amount of cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development and other corporate requirements; -8- · increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and · limit our ability to respond to business opportunities, including growing our business through acquisitions. In addition, the credit agreements and indentures governing our current indebtedness contain, and any future debt instruments would likely contain, financial and other restrictive covenants, which will impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to, among other things: · incur or guarantee additional debt; · pay dividends and make other restricted payments; · create or incur certain liens; · make certain investments; · engage in sales of assets and subsidiary stock; · enter into transactions with affiliates; · transfer all or substantially all of our assets or enter into merger or consolidation transactions; and · make capital expenditures. As a result of these covenants, we will be limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. Furthermore, a failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Increases in resin prices or a shortage of available resin could harm our financial condition and results of operations. To produce our products, we use large quantities of plastic resins. Plastic resins are subject to price fluctuations, including those arising from supply shortages and changes in the prices of natural gas, crude oil and other petrochemical intermediates from which resins are produced. Over the past several years, we have at times experienced rapidly increasing resin prices. If rapid increases in resin prices continue, our revenue and profitability may be materially and adversely affected, both in the short term as we attempt to pass through changes in the price of resin to customers under current agreements and in the long term as we negotiate new agreements or if our customers seek product substitution. We source plastic resin primarily from major industry suppliers. We have long-standing relationships with certain of these suppliers but have not entered into a firm supply contract with any of them. We may not be able to arrange for other sources of resin in the event of an industry-wide general shortage of resins used by us, or a shortage or discontinuation of certain types of grades of resin purchased from one or more of our suppliers. In addition, the largest supplier of the Company’s total resin material requirements represented approximately 20% of purchases during fiscal 2012. Any such shortage may materially negatively impact our competitive position versus companies that are able to better or more cheaply source resin. We may not be able to compete successfully and our customers may not continue to purchase our products. We face intense competition in the sale of our products and compete with multiple companies in each of our product lines. We compete on the basis of a number of considerations, including price, service, quality, product characteristics and the ability to supply products to customers in a timely manner. Our products also compete with metal, glass, paper and other packaging materials as well as plastic packaging materials made through different manufacturing processes. Some of these competitive products are not subject to the impact of changes in resin prices which may have a significant and negative impact on our competitive position versus substitute products. Our competitors may have financial and other resources that are substantially greater than ours and may be better able than us to withstand higher costs. In addition, our success may depend on our ability to adapt to technological changes, and if we fail to enhance existing products and develop and introduce new products and new production technologies in a timely fashion in response to changing market conditions and customer demands, our competitive position could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, some of our customers do and could in the future choose to manufacture the products they require for themselves. Each of our product lines faces a different competitive landscape. Competition could result in our products losing market share or our having to reduce our prices, either of which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and financial condition. In addition, since we do not have long-term arrangements with many of our customers, these competitive factors could cause our customers to shift suppliers and/or packaging material quickly. We may pursue and execute acquisitions, which could adversely affect our business. As part of our growth strategy, we plan to consider the acquisition of other companies, assets and product lines that either complement or expand our existing business and create economic value. We cannot assure you that we will be able to consummate any such transactions or that any future acquisitions will be consummated at acceptable prices and terms. -9- We continually evaluate potential acquisition opportunities in the ordinary course of business, including those that could be material in size and scope. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks, including: · the diversion of management’s attention and resources to the assimilation of the acquired companies and their employees and to the management of expanding operations; · the incorporation of acquired products into our product line; · problems associated with maintaining relationships with employees and customers of acquired businesses; · the increasing demands on our operational systems; · ability to integrate and implement effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls for financial reporting within the allowable time frame as permitted by Sarbanes-Oxley Act; · possible adverse effects on our reported operating results, particularly during the first several reporting periods after such acquisitions are completed; and · the loss of key employees and the difficulty of presenting a unified corporate image. We may become responsible for unexpected liabilities that we failed or were unable to discover in the course of performing due diligence in connection with historical acquisitions and any future acquisitions. We have typically required selling stockholders to indemnify us against certain undisclosed liabilities. However, we cannot assure you that indemnification rights we have obtained, or will in the future obtain, will be enforceable, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset the possible liabilities associated with the business or property acquired. Any of these liabilities, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to successfully integrate future acquisitions without substantial costs, delays or other problems. The costs of such integration could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Although we conduct what we believe to be a prudent level of investigation regarding the businesses we purchase, in light of the circumstances of each transaction, an unavoidable level of risk remains regarding the actual condition of these businesses. Until we actually assume operating control of such businesses and their assets and operations, we may not be able to ascertain the actual value or understand the potential liabilities of the acquired entities and their operations. Furthermore, we may not realize all of the cost savings and synergies we expect to achieve from our current strategic initiatives due to a variety of risks, including, but not limited to, difficulties in integrating shared services with our business, higher than expected employee severance or retention costs, higher than expected overhead expenses, delays in the anticipated timing of activities related to our cost-saving plans and other unexpected costs associated with operating our business. If we are unable to achieve the cost savings or synergies that we expect to achieve from our strategic initiatives, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property rights, including our unpatented proprietary know-how and trade secrets, or in avoiding claims that we infringed on the intellectual property rights of others. In addition to relying on patent and trademark rights, we rely on unpatented proprietary know-how and trade secrets, and employ various methods, including confidentiality agreements with employees and consultants, customers and suppliers to protect our know-how and trade secrets. However, these methods and our patents and trademarks may not afford complete protection and there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop the know-how and trade secrets or develop better production methods than us. Further, we may not be able to deter current and former employees, contractors and other parties from breaching confidentiality agreements and misappropriating proprietary information and it is possible that third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our information and proprietary technology without authorization or otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. Additionally, we have licensed, and may license in the future, patents, trademarks, trade secrets, and similar proprietary rights to third parties. While we attempt to ensure that our intellectual property and similar proprietary rights are protected when entering into business relationships, third parties may take actions that could materially and adversely affect our rights or the value of our intellectual property, similar proprietary rights or reputation. In the future, we may also rely on litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights and contractual rights, and, if not successful, we may not be able to protect the value of our intellectual property. Any litigation could be protracted and costly and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations regardless of its outcome. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain, or license from third parties, patents, trademarks, trade secrets and similar proprietary rights without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. Although we believe our intellectual property rights are sufficient to allow us to conduct our business without incurring liability to third parties, our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of such persons. Furthermore, no assurance can be given that we will not be subject to claims asserting the infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties seeking damages, the payment of royalties or licensing fees and/or injunctions against the sale of our products. Any such litigation could be protracted and costly and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. -10- Current and future environmental and other governmental requirements could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to conduct our business. Our operations are subject to federal, state, local, and foreign environmental laws and regulations that impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, establish standards for the treatment, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and require cleanup of contaminated sites. While we have not been required historically to make significant capital expenditures in order to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations, we cannot predict with any certainty our future capital expenditure requirements because of continually changing compliance standards and environmental technology. Furthermore, violations or contaminated sites that we do not know about (including contamination caused by prior owners and operators of such sites or newly discovered information) could result in additional compliance or remediation costs or other liabilities, which could be material. We have limited insurance coverage for potential environmental liabilities associated with historic and current operations and we do not anticipate increasing such coverage in the future. We may also assume significant environmental liabilities in acquisitions. In addition, federal, state, local, and foreign governments could enact laws or regulations concerning environmental matters that increase the cost of producing, or otherwise adversely affect the demand for, plastic products. Legislation that would prohibit, tax or restrict the sale or use of certain types of plastic and other containers, and would require diversion of solid wastes such as packaging materials from disposal in landfills, has been or may be introduced in the U.S. Congress, state legislatures, and other legislative bodies. While container legislation has been adopted in a few jurisdictions, similar legislation has been defeated in public referenda in several states, local elections and many state and local legislative sessions. Although we believe that the laws promulgated to date have not had a material adverse effect on us, there can be no assurance that future legislation or regulation would not have a material adverse effect on us. Furthermore, a decline in consumer preference for plastic products due to environmental considerations could have a negative effect on our business. The Food and Drug Administration, which we refer to as the FDA, regulates the material content of direct-contact food and drug packages we manufacture pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. Furthermore, some of our products are regulated by the Consumer Product Safety Commission, which we refer to as the CPSC, pursuant to various federal laws, including the Consumer Product Safety Act and the Poison Prevention Packaging Act. Both the FDA and the CPSC can require the manufacturer of defective products to repurchase or recall these products and may also impose fines or penalties on the manufacturer. Similar laws exist in some states, cities and other countries in which we sell products. In addition, laws exist in certain states restricting the sale of packaging with certain levels of heavy metals and imposing fines and penalties for noncompliance. Although we use FDA-approved resins and pigments in our products that directly contact food and drug products and we believe our products are in material compliance with all applicable requirements, we remain subject to the risk that our products could be found not to be in compliance with these and other requirements. A recall of any of our products or any fines and penalties imposed in connection with noncompliance could have a materially adverse effect on us. See “Business—Environmental Matters and Government Regulation.” In the event of a catastrophic loss of one of our key manufacturing facilities, our business would be adversely affected. While we manufacture our products in a large number of diversified facilities and maintain insurance covering our facilities, including business interruption insurance, a catastrophic loss of the use of all or a portion of one of our key manufacturing facilities due to accident, labor issues, weather conditions, natural disaster or otherwise, whether short or long-term, could have a material adverse effect on us. Goodwill and other intangibles represent a significant amount of our net worth, and a future write-off could result in lower reported net income and a reduction of our net worth. As of the of our 2012 fiscal year, the net value of our goodwill and other intangibles was $2,636. We are no longer required or permitted to amortize goodwill reflected on our balance sheet. We are, however, required to evaluate goodwill reflected on our balance sheet when circumstances indicate a potential impairment, or at least annually, under the impairment testing guidelines outlined in the standard. Future changes in the cost of capital, expected cash flows, or other factors may cause our goodwill to be impaired, resulting in a non-cash charge against results of operations to write off goodwill for the amount of impairment. If a future write-off is required, the charge could have a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations and net worth in the period of any such write-off. Disruptions in the overall economy and the financial markets may adversely impact our business. Our industry is affected by current economic factors, including the deterioration of national, regional, and local economic conditions, declines in employment levels, and shifts in consumer spending patterns. Disruptions in the overall economy and volatility in the financial markets could reduce consumer confidence in the economy, negatively affecting consumer spending, which could be harmful to our financial position and results of operations. As a result, decreased cash flow generated from our business may adversely affect our financial position and our ability to fund our operations. In addition, macroeconomic disruptions, as well as the restructuring of various commercial and investment banking organizations, could adversely affect our ability to access the credit markets. The disruption in the credit markets may also adversely affect the availability of financing for our operations. There can be no assurance that government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets will restore consumer confidence, stabilize the markets, or increase liquidity and the availability of credit. -11- We had net losses in recent years and we may not be profitable in the future. We generated net income in only two of our last five fiscal years, and during the remaining three fiscal years, we incurred net losses of over $100 per year. We may not generate net income from operations in the future, and continuing net losses may limit our ability to execute our strategy. Factors contributing to our financial performance include non-cash impairment charges, depreciation/amortization on our long lived tangible and intangible assets, interest expense on our debt obligations as well as other factors more fully disclosed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” We are a holding company and rely on dividends and other payments, advances and transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations and pay dividends. Berry Plastics Group, Inc. has no direct operations and no significant assets other than ownership of 100% of the stock of Berry Plastics Corporation. Because Berry Plastics Group, Inc. conducts its operations through its subsidiaries, it depends on those entities for dividends and other payments to generate the funds necessary to meet its financial obligations, and to pay any dividends with respect to our common stock. Legal and contractual restrictions in the agreements governing current and future indebtedness of Berry Plastics Group, Inc.’s subsidiaries, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of Berry Plastics Group, Inc.’s subsidiaries, may limit Berry Plastics Group, Inc.’s ability to obtain cash from its subsidiaries. The earnings from, or other available assets of, Berry Plastics Group, Inc.’s subsidiaries may not be sufficient to pay dividends or make distributions or loans to enable Berry Plastics Group, Inc. to pay dividends going forward. Apollo controls us, and its interests may conflict with or differ from your interests. Funds affiliated with our equity sponsor, Apollo Global Management, LLC (“Apollo”) indirectly beneficially own approximately 54% of our common stock. As a result, Apollo has the power to elect all of our directors. Further, under the amended and restated stockholders agreement that we entered into in connection with our initial public offering, so long as Apollo and its affiliates continue to indirectly own a significant amount of our equity, even if such amount is less than 50%, they will continue to be able to strongly influence or control our business decisions, including through the designation of up to that number of director nominees that would constitute a majority of our Board of Directors under certain circumstances and the requirement that certain matters, including mergers and acquisitions, issuance of equity and incurrence of debt, be approved by a majority of the directors nominated by Apollo voting on the matter so long as Apollo beneficially owns at least 25% of our outstanding common stock. Therefore, Apollo effectively has the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of our Board of Directors or our stockholders, including the approval of significant corporate transactions such as mergers and the sale of substantially all of our assets. Thus, Apollo will continue to be able to significantly influence or effectively control our decisions which could conflict with the interests of other users of this Form 10-K. We have determined that we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NYSE rules and, as a result, qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Funds affiliated with Apollo control a majority of our voting common stock. As a result, we qualify as a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NYSE corporate governance standards. Under the NYSE rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power for the election of directors is held by an individual, group or another company is a “controlled company” and may elect not to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including: · the requirement that a majority of the Board of Directors consists of independent directors; · the requirement that we have a nominating/corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; · the requirement that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; and · the requirement for an annual performance evaluation of the nominating/corporate governance and compensation committees. We currently utilize these exemptions. As a result, we do not have a majority of independent directors nor do our nominating/corporate governance and compensation committees consist entirely of independent directors, and we are not be required to have an annual performance evaluation of the nominating/corporate governance and compensation committees. Accordingly, our stockholders may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to such corporate governance requirements. -12- The additional requirements of having a class of publicly traded equity securities may strain our resources and distract management. Upon completion of our initial public offering in October 2012, we will be subject to additional reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which we refer to as the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act.” The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control for financial reporting. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our independent public accountants auditing our financial statements must attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In order to continue to maintain the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting following the consummation of this offering, significant resources and management oversight will be required. Furthermore, if we are unable to conclude that our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting are effective, or if our independent public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified report as to management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in future years, investors may lose confidence in our financial reports and our stock price may decline. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which we refer to as “Dodd-Frank” and which amended the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other federal laws, has created uncertainty for public companies, and we cannot predict with any certainty the requirements of the regulations that will ultimately be adopted under Dodd-Frank or how such regulations will affect the cost of compliance for a company with publicly traded common stock. There is likely to be continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters because the application of these laws and regulations, which are subject to varying interpretations, may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. We intend to invest resources to comply with these evolving laws and regulations, which may result in increased general and administrative expenses and divert management’s time and attention from other business concerns. Furthermore, if our compliance efforts differ from the activities that regulatory and governing bodies expect or intend due to ambiguities related to interpretation or practice, we may face legal proceedings initiated by such regulatory or governing bodies and our business may be harmed. In addition, new rules and regulations may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified directors and officers and may make it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. We are required to pay our existing owners for certain tax benefits, which amounts are expected to be material. We have entered into an income tax receivable agreement with our pre-initial public offering stockholders, option holders and holders of our stock appreciation rights that provides for the payment by us to such stockholders of 85% of the amount of cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, foreign, state and local income tax that we and our subsidiaries actually realize as a result of the utilization of our net operating losses attributable to periods prior to our initial public offering. These payment obligations are our obligations and not obligations of any of our subsidiaries. The actual utilization of net operating losses as well as the timing of any payments under the income tax receivable agreement will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the amount, character and timing of our and our subsidiaries’ taxable income in the future. We expect that the payments we make under this income tax receivable agreement will be material. Assuming no material changes in the relevant tax law, and that we and our subsidiaries earn sufficient income to realize the full tax benefits subject to the income tax receivable agreement, we expect that future payments under the income tax receivable agreement will aggregate to between $300 and $350. Upon completion of our initial public offering in October 2012, we will record a liability in excess of $300, which represents the full obligation for our recognized deferred tax assets, with an offset to Additional Paid in Capital. We expect to record a stock compensation charge in connection with our initial public offering related to the income tax receivable agreement for the payments to option holders and holders of our stock appreciation rights. Any future changes in the realizability of our net operating loss carry forwards that were generated prior to our initial public offering will impact the amount of the liability that will be paid to our pre-initial public offering shareholders, option holders or holders of our stock appreciation rights. Changes in the realizability of these tax assets are recorded in income tax expense (benefit) and any changes in the obligation under the income tax receivable agreement is recorded in other income (expense). Based on our current taxable income estimates, we expect to repay the majority of this obligation by the end of our 2016 fiscal year. In addition, the income tax receivable agreement provides that upon certain mergers, stock and asset sales, other forms of business combinations or other changes of control, the income tax receivable agreement will terminate and we will be required to make a payment equal to the present value of future payments under the income tax receivable agreement, which payment would be based on certain assumptions, including those relating to our and our subsidiaries’ future taxable income. In these situations, our obligations under the income tax receivable agreement could have a substantial negative impact on our liquidity and could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing certain mergers, asset sales, other forms of business combinations or other changes of control. -13- For tax reasons, special timing rules will apply to payments associated with stock options and stock appreciation rights. Such payments will generally be deemed invested in a notional account rather than made on the scheduled payment dates, and the account will be distributed on the fifth anniversary of the initial public offering. Our counterparties under this agreement will not reimburse us for any payments previously made under the income tax receivable agreement if such benefits are subsequently disallowed (although future payments would be adjusted to the extent possible to reflect the result of such disallowance). As a result, in certain circumstances, payments could be made under the income tax receivable agreement in excess of our cash tax savings. Our operating subsidiary Berry Plastics Corporation identified a prior deficiency in its disclosure controls and procedures. Under applicable SEC regulations, management of a reporting company, with the participation of the principal executive officer and principal financial officer, must periodically evaluate the Company’s “disclosure controls and procedures,” which are defined generally as controls and other procedures of a reporting company designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the reporting company in its periodic reports filed with the SEC is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported on a timely basis. In conjunction with a review of the SEC of our wholly owned subsidiary Berry Plastics Corporation’s fiscal 2011 annual report, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the design and operation of Berry Plastics Corporation’s disclosure controls and procedures were not effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed was reported at the acceptable level of detail for the period covered by the fiscal 2011 annual report. We identified deficient disclosure in the section “Critical Accounting Policy and Estimates: Goodwill and Other Indefinite Lived Intangible Assets.” In that disclosure, we did not provide readers with sufficient information explaining the factors that led to the recognition of the goodwill impairment charge, along with the future implications to our business. We also identified deficient disclosure in the section “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” In that disclosure, we did not provide readers with sufficient informative narrative explanations of our financial statements. In addition, we identified deficient disclosure in our condensed consolidating financial statements, in which we did not provide appropriate disclosure and presentation of certain intercompany activity. To remediate these deficiencies, in addition to our historical disclosure controls and procedures, we have begun a more comprehensive review and approval procedure of disclosures related to our “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” to ensure the level of information we disclose provides readers with a sufficient level of detail to understand these policies and estimates. We believe that these actions remediated the weakness in our disclosure controls and procedures; however, we cannot assure you that additional deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures will not occur in the future. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 