D. Risk Factors Our business involves a high degree of risk. Please carefully consider the risks we describe below in addition to the other information set forth elsewhere in this annual report and in our other filings with the SEC. These material risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business and Operations Economic conditions may make it difficult to maintain or increase occupancy rates and rents and a deterioration in economic conditions in one or more of our key regions could adversely impact our results of operations. In 2013, our rental income (assuming full consolidation of jointly-controlled entities) was derived 33.1% from Canada, 20.9% from the United States, 22.2% from Northern and Western Europe, 20.2% from Central and Eastern Europe, 3.1% from Israel, and 0.5% from Brazil. During the recent economic downturn, general market conditions deteriorated in many of our markets, particularly the United States and Central and Eastern Europe, and a lack of financing and a decrease in consumer spending prevented retailers from expanding their activities. As a consequence, occupancy rates declined in some of the regions in which we operate, most significantly in the United States where the occupancy rates for our shopping centers decreased from 93.2% as of December 31, 2007 to 92.4% as of December 31, 2013. In addition, we granted rent concessions to some tenants during this period. The economic downturn adversely affected our net operating income and the value of our assets in all of the regions in which we operate. In addition, currencies in many of our markets were devalued during that period. Although general market conditions have improved and currencies have strengthened in those markets since 2010, our ability to maintain or increase our occupancy rates and rent levels depends on continued improvements in global and local economic conditions. While the economy in many of our markets has continued to gradually improve, particularly in the United States and Canada, macro-economic challenges, such as low consumer confidence, high unemployment and reduced consumer spending, have adversely affected many retailers and continue to adversely affect the retail sales of many regional and local tenants in some of our markets and our ability to re-lease vacated space at higher rents. Moreover, companies in some of our markets shifted to a more cautionary mode with respect to leasing as a result of the prevailing economic climate and demand for retail space has declined generally, reducing the market rental rates for our properties. As a result, in these markets we may not be able to re-lease vacated space and, if we are able to re-lease vacated space, there is no assurance that rental rates will be equal to or in excess of current rental rates. In addition, we may incur substantial costs in obtaining new tenants, including brokerage commissions paid by us in connection with new leases or lease renewals, and the cost of making leasehold improvements. These events and factors could adversely affect our rental income and overall results of operations. 5 Table of Contents While most of our shopping centers are anchored by supermarkets, drugstores or other necessity-oriented retailers, which are less susceptible to economic cycles, other tenants of our public subsidiaries, have been vulnerable to declining sales and reduced access to capital. As a result, some tenants have requested rent adjustments and abatements, while other tenants have not been able to continue in business at all. Our ability to renew or replace these tenants at comparable rents could adversely impact occupancy rates and overall results of operations. Revenue from our properties depends on the success of our tenants. Revenue from our properties depends primarily on the ability of our tenants to pay the full amount of rent and other charges due under their leases on a timely basis. Any reduction in the tenants’ abilities to pay rent or other charges on a timely basis, including the filing by the tenants for bankruptcy protection, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In the event of default by tenants, our subsidiaries and affiliates may experience delays and unexpected costs in enforcing their rights as landlords under the leases, which may also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The economic performance and value of our shopping centers depend on many factors, each of which could have an adverse impact on our cash flows and operating results. The economic performance and value of our properties can be affected by many factors, including the following: • Economic uncertainty or downturns in general, or in the areas where our properties are located; • Local conditions, such as an oversupply of space, a reduction in demand for retail space or a change in local demographics; • The attractiveness of our properties to tenants and competition from other available space; • The adverse financial condition of some large retail companies and ongoing consolidation within the retail sector; • The growth of super-centers and warehouse club retailers and their adverse effect on traditional grocery chains; • Changes in the perception of retailers or shoppers regarding the safety, convenience and attractiveness of our shopping centers and changes in the overall climate of the retail industry; • The ability of our subsidiaries and affiliates to provide adequate management services and to maintain our properties; • Increased operating costs, if these costs cannot be passed through to tenants; • The expense of periodically renovating, repairing and re-letting spaces; • The impact of increased energy costs and/or extreme weather conditions on consumers and its consequential effect on the number of shopping visits to our properties; and • The consequences of any armed conflicts or terrorist attacks. To the extent that any of these conditions occur or accelerate, they are likely to impact market rents for retail space, portfolio occupancy, our ability to sell, acquire or develop properties, and cash available for distribution to stockholders. We seek to expand through acquisitions of additional real estate assets, including other businesses; such expansion may not yield the returns expected, may result in disruptions to our business, may strain management resources and may result in dilution to our shareholders or dilution of our interests in our subsidiaries and affiliates. 6 Table of Contents Our investing strategy and our market selection process may not ultimately be successful, may not provide positive returns on our investments and may result in losses. The acquisition of properties, groups of properties or other businesses entails risks that include the following, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition: • we may not be able to identify suitable properties to acquire or may be unable to complete the acquisition of the properties we identify; • we may not be able to integrate any acquisitions into our existing operations successfully; • properties we acquire may fail to achieve the occupancy or rental rates we project at the time we make the decision to acquire; and • our pre-acquisition evaluation of the physical condition of each new investment may not detect certain defects or identify necessary repairs or may fail to properly evaluate the costs involved in implementing our plans with respect to such investment. Together with our acquisition of individual properties and groups of properties, we have been an active business acquirer and, as part of our growth strategy, we expect to seek to acquire real estate-related businesses in the future. The acquisition and integration of each business involves a number of risks and may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures in assimilating or integrating the businesses, properties, personnel or operations of the acquired business. Our due diligence prior to our acquisition of a business may not uncover certain legal or regulatory issues that could affect such business. Furthermore, future acquisitions may involve difficulties in retaining the tenants or customers of the acquired business, and disrupt our ongoing business, divert our resources and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing operation and development of our current business. Moreover, we can make no assurances that the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, such as operating improvements or anticipated cost savings, would be realized or that we would not be exposed to unexpected liabilities in connection with any acquisition. To complete a future acquisition, we may determine that it is necessary to use a substantial amount of our available liquidity sources or cash or engage in equity or debt financing. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing shareholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we or our subsidiaries or affiliates issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our ordinary shares. If our subsidiaries or affiliates raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, Gazit-Globe, as the holder of equity securities of our subsidiaries and affiliates, could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities our subsidiaries or affiliates issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those held by Gazit-Globe. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all, which could limit our ability to engage in acquisitions. We are particularly dependent upon large tenants that serve as anchors in our shopping centers and decisions made by these tenants or adverse developments in their businesses could have a negative impact on our financial condition. We own shopping centers that are anchored by large tenants. Because of their reputation or other factors, these large tenants are particularly important in attracting shoppers and other tenants to our centers. Our rental income depends upon the ability of the tenants of our properties and, in particular, these anchor tenants, to generate enough income to make their lease payments to us. Certain of our anchor tenants may make up a significant percentage of our rental income in certain markets. For example, Kesko accounted for 16.1% of Citycon’s rental income in 2013, Publix accounted for 3.8% of Equity One’s total annual minimum rent as of December 31, 2013 and Sobey’s accounted for 7.1% of First Capital’s total annual minimum rent as of December 31, 2013. In addition, supermarkets and other grocery stores, many of which are anchor tenants, accounted for approximately 18% of our total rental income in 2013, assuming full consolidation of equity-accounted jointly-controlled entities. We generally develop or redevelop our shopping centers based on an agreement with an anchor tenant. Changes beyond our control may adversely affect the tenants’ ability to make lease payments or could result in them terminating their leases. These changes include, among others: • downturns in national or regional economic conditions where our properties are located, which generally will negatively impact the rental rates; • changes in the buying habits of consumers in the regions surrounding those shopping centers including a shift to preference for online shopping and e-commerce; • changes in local market conditions such as an oversupply of properties, including space available by sublease or new construction, or a reduction in demand for our properties; 7 Table of Contents • competition from other available properties; and • changes in federal, state or local regulations and controls affecting rents, prices of goods, interest rates, fuel and energy consumption. As a result, tenants may determine not to renew leases, delay lease commencement or adjust their square footage needs downward. In addition, anchor tenants often have more favorable lease provisions and significant negotiating power. In some instances, we may need to seek their permission to lease to other, smaller tenants. Anchor tenants, particularly retail chains, may also change their operating policies for their stores (such as the size of their stores) and the regions in which they operate. As a result, anchor tenants may determine not to renew leases or delay lease commencement. An anchor tenant may decide that a particular store is unprofitable and close its operations in our center, and, while the tenant may continue to make rental payments, such a failure to occupy its premises could have an adverse effect on the property. A lease termination by an anchor tenant or a failure by that anchor tenant to occupy the premises could result in lease terminations or reductions in rent by other tenants in the same shopping center. In addition, we are subject to the risk of defaults by tenants or the failure of any lease guarantors to fulfill their obligations, tenant bankruptcies and other early termination of leases or non-renewal of leases. Any of these developments could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Commencement of operations in new geographic markets and asset classes involves risks and may result in us investing significant resources without realizing a return and may adversely impact our future growth. The commencement of operations in new geographic markets or asset classes in which we have little or no prior experience involves costs and risks. In the past, we expanded into new regions, including Central and Eastern Europe and Brazil, and into other asset classes, such as medical office buildings and senior care facilities. While we currently have no specific plans to commence operations in new geographic markets or asset classes, we may decide to enter into new markets or asset classes in the future when an opportunity presents itself. When commencing such operations, we need to learn and become familiar with the various aspects of operating in these new geographic markets or asset classes, including regulatory aspects, the business and macro-economic environment, new currency exposure, as well as the necessity of establishing new systems and administrative headquarters at substantial costs. Additionally, it may take many years for an acquisition to achieve desired results as factors such as obtaining regulatory permits, construction, signing the right mix of tenants and assembling the right management team take time to implement. In some cases, we may commence such operations by means of a joint venture which often offers the advantage of a partner with superior experience, but also has the risks associated with any activity conducted jointly with a non-controlled third party. In addition, entry into new geographic markets may also lead to difficulty managing geographically separated organizations and assets, difficulty integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures and compliance with foreign regulatory requirements applicable to acquisitions. Our failure to successfully expand into new geographies and asset classes may result in us investing significant resources without realizing a return and may adversely impact our future growth. If we or our public subsidiaries are unable to obtain adequate capital, we may have to limit our operations substantially. Our acquisition and development of properties and our acquisition of other businesses and equity interests in real estate companies are financed in part by loans received from banks, insurance companies and other financing sources, as well as from the sale of shares, notes, debentures and convertible debentures in public and private offerings. Our public subsidiaries satisfy their capital requirements through debt and equity financings in their respective local markets. The practices in these markets vary significantly, for example, with some of the markets based entirely on bank lending and others depending significantly on accessing the capital markets. Our ability to obtain, or obtain on economically desirable terms, financing could be affected by unavailability or a shortage of external financing sources, changes in existing financing terms, changes in our financial condition and results of operations, legislative changes, changes in the public or private markets in our operating regions and deterioration of the economic situation in our operating regions. Should our ability to obtain financing be impaired, our operations could be limited significantly. Our business results are dependent on our ability to obtain loans or capital in the future in order to repay our loans, notes, debentures and convertible debentures. 8 Table of Contents Internet sales can have an impact on our tenants and our business. The use of the internet by consumers continues to gain in popularity and growth in internet sales is likely to continue in the future. The increase in internet sales could result in a downturn in the business of some of our current tenants and could affect the way other current and future tenants lease space. For example, the migration towards internet sales has led many retailers to reduce the number and size of their traditional “bricks and mortar” locations in order to increasingly rely on e-commerce and alternative distribution channels. Many tenants also permit merchandise purchased on their websites to be picked up at, or returned to, their physical store locations, which may have the effect of decreasing the reported amount of their in-store sales and the amount of rent we are able to collect from them (particularly with respect to those tenants who pay rent based on a percentage of their in-store sales). We cannot predict with certainty how growth in internet sales will impact the demand for space at our properties or how much revenue will be generated at traditional store locations in the future. If we are unable to anticipate and respond promptly to trends in retailer and consumer behavior, our occupancy levels and financial results could be negatively impacted. Future terrorist acts and shooting incidents could harm the demand for, and the value of, our properties. Over the past few years, a number of terrorist acts and shootings have occurred at retail properties throughout the world, including highly publicized incidents in Arizona, New Jersey, Maryland, Oregon and Kenya. In the event concerns regarding safety were to alter shopping habits or deter customers from visiting shopping centers, our tenants would be adversely affected as would the general demand for retail space. Additionally, if such incidents were to continue, insurance for such acts may become limited or subject to substantial cost increases. Many of our real estate costs are fixed, even if income from our properties decreases. Our financial results depend in part on leasing space in the properties to tenants on favorable financial terms. Costs associated with real estate investment, such as real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance costs, generally are not reduced even when a property is not fully occupied, rental rates decrease, or other circumstances cause a reduction in income from the property. As a result, cash flow from the operations of the properties may be reduced if a tenant does not pay its rent or we are unable to fully lease the properties on favorable terms. Additionally, properties that we develop or redevelop may not produce any significant revenue immediately, and the cash flow from existing operations may be insufficient to pay the operating expenses and debt service associated with such projects until they are fully occupied. We have substantial debt obligations which may negatively affect our results of operations and financial position and put us at a competitive disadvantage. Our organizational documents do not limit the amount of debt that we may incur and we do not have a policy that limits our debt to any particular level. As of December 31, 2013, we and our private subsidiaries had outstanding interest-bearing debt in the aggregate amount of NIS 14,590 million (U.S.$ 4,204 million) and other liabilities outstanding in the aggregate amount of NIS 736 million (U.S.$ 212 million), of which approximately 8% matures during 2014. On a consolidated basis, we had debt and other liabilities outstanding as of December 31, 2013 in the aggregate amount of NIS 45,269 million (U.S.$ 13,042 million), of which 12.7% matures during 2014. We are subject to covenant compliance obligations and each of our public subsidiaries is subject to its own covenant compliance obligations. Furthermore, the indebtedness of each of our public subsidiaries is independent of each other public subsidiary and is not subject to any guaranty by Gazit-Globe or its wholly-owned subsidiaries. The amount of debt outstanding from time to time could have important consequences to us and our public subsidiaries. For example, it could • require that we dedicate a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to payments on debt, thereby reducing funds available for operations, property acquisitions, redevelopments and other business opportunities that may arise in the future; • limit the ability to make distributions on equity securities, including the payment of dividends; • make it difficult to satisfy debt service requirements; 9 Table of Contents • limit flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in business and the factors that affect profitability, which may place us at a disadvantage compared to competitors with less debt or debt with less restrictive terms; • adversely affect financial ratios and debt and operational coverage levels monitored by rating agencies and adversely affect the ratings assigned to our or our public subsidiaries’ debt, which could increase the cost of capital; and • limit our or our public subsidiaries’ ability to obtain any additional debt or equity financing that may be needed in the future for working capital, debt refinancing, capital expenditures, acquisitions, redevelopment or other general corporate purposes or to obtain such financing on favorable terms. If our or our public subsidiaries’ internally generated cash is inadequate to repay indebtedness upon an event of default or upon maturity, then we or our public subsidiaries will be required to repay or refinance the debt. If we or our public subsidiaries are unable to refinance our indebtedness on acceptable terms or if the amount of refinancing proceeds is insufficient to fully repay the existing debt, we or our public subsidiaries might be forced to dispose of properties, potentially upon disadvantageous terms, which might result in losses and might adversely affect our cash available for distribution. If prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates on refinancing, our interest expense would increase without a corresponding increase in our rental rates, which would adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, our debt financing agreements and the debt financing agreements of our public subsidiaries contain representations, warranties and covenants, including financial covenants that, among other things, require the maintenance of certain financial ratios. Certain of the covenants that apply to Gazit-Globe depend upon the performance of our public subsidiaries and we therefore have less control over our compliance with those covenants. For example, covenants that apply to Gazit-Globe require Citycon to maintain a minimum ratio of equity to total assets less advances received and a minimum ratio of EBITDA to net finance expenses. Another covenant requires First Capital to maintain a minimum ratio of EBITDA to finance expenses. Should we or our public subsidiaries breach any such representations, warranties or covenants contained in any such loan or other financing agreement, or otherwise be unable to service interest payments or principal repayments, we or our public subsidiaries may be required immediately to repay such borrowings in whole or in part, together with any related costs and a default under the terms of certain of our other indebtedness may result from such breach. For example, a decline in the property market or a wide scale tenant default may result in a failure to meet any loan to value or debt service coverage ratios, thereby causing an event of default and we or our public subsidiaries, as the case may be, may be required to prepay the relevant loan. A significant portion of Gazit-Globe’s equity interests in its subsidiaries are pledged as collateral for Gazit-Globe’s revolving credit facilities and other indebtedness incurred by Gazit-Globe directly and by its private subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2013, the principal amount of such indebtedness was NIS 1,664 million (U.S.$ 479 million), which constituted 3.7% of our consolidated indebtedness as of such date. In the event that Gazit-Globe is required to prepay its loans, the lenders under such loans may determine to pursue remedies against and cause the sale of those equity interests. In addition, since certain of our properties were mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness with a principal amount of NIS 8,749 million (U.S.$ 2,521 million) as of December 31, 2013, which constituted 19.3% of our consolidated indebtedness as of such date, in the event we are unable to refinance or repay our borrowing, we may be unable to meet mortgage payments, or we may default under the related mortgage, deed of trust or other pledge and such property could be transferred to the mortgagee or pledgee, or the mortgagee or pledgee could foreclose upon the property, appoint a receiver and receive an assignment of rents and leases or pursue other remedies, all with a consequent loss of income and asset value. Moreover, any restrictions on cash distributions as a result of breaching financial ratios, failure to repay such borrowings or, in certain circumstances, other breaches of covenants, representations and warranties under our debt financing agreements could result in us being prevented from paying dividends to our investors and have an adverse effect on our liquidity. 10 Table of Contents Volatility in the credit markets may affect our ability to obtain or re-finance our indebtedness at a reasonable cost. At times during the last decade, global credit markets have experienced significant price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions, which at times caused the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. If a downturn or dislocation in credit markets were to occur or if interest rates were to dramatically increase from their current low levels, we may experience difficulty refinancing our upcoming debt maturities at a reasonable cost or with desired financing alternatives. For example, it may be hard to raise new unsecured financing in the form of additional bank debt or corporate bonds at interest rates that are appropriate for our long term objectives. Any change in our credit ratings could further impact our access to capital and our cost of capital, including the cost of borrowings under our revolving lines of credit. To the extent we are unable to efficiently access the credit markets, we may need to repay maturing debt with proceeds from the issuance of equity or the sale of assets. In addition, lenders may impose more restrictive covenants, events of default and other conditions. The inability of any of our public subsidiaries to satisfy their liquidity requirements may materially and adversely impact our results of operations. Even though we present the assets and liabilities of our public subsidiaries on a consolidated basis and of an affiliate, they satisfy their short-term liquidity and long-term capital requirements through cash generated from their respective operations and through debt and equity financings in their respective local markets. Our liquidity and available borrowings presented on a consolidated basis may not therefore be reflective of the position of any one of our public subsidiaries since the liquidity and available borrowings of each of our public subsidiaries are not available to support the others’ operations. Although we have from time to time purchased equity or convertible debt securities of our public subsidiaries, we have not generally made shareholder loans to them and may have insufficient resources to do so even if our overall financial position on a consolidated basis is positive. Each public subsidiary is subject to its own covenant compliance obligations and the failure of any public subsidiary to comply with its obligations could result in the acceleration of its indebtedness which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates and we may not have adequately hedged against them. Because we own and operate assets in many regions throughout the world, our results of operations are affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. For the year ended December 31, 2013, 33.1% of our rental income (assuming full consolidation of jointly-controlled entities) was earned in Canadian dollars, 30.0% in Euros, 21.7% in U.S. dollars, 7.7% in Swedish Krona, and 3.1% in NIS. Our income from development and construction of residential projects activity is primarily generated in NIS (NIS 127 million of gross profit during 2013). In addition, our reporting currency is the New Israeli Shekel, or NIS, and the functional currency is separately determined for each of our subsidiaries. When a subsidiary’s functional currency differs from our reporting currency, the financial statements of such subsidiary are translated to NIS so that they can be included in our financial statements. As a result, fluctuations of the currencies in which we conduct business relative to the NIS impact our results of operations and the impact may be material. For example, the average annual rate in NIS of the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar weakened 6.4% and 9.1%, respectively, for 2013 compared to 2012, which resulted in our net operating income decreasing by a total amount of NIS 194 million, or 5.6%. We continually monitor our exposure to currency risk and pursue a company-wide foreign exchange risk management policy, which includes seeking to hold our equity in the currencies of the various markets in which we operate in the same proportions as the assets in each such currency bear to our total assets. We have in the past and expect to continue in the future to at least partly hedge such risks with certain financial instruments. Future currency exchange rate fluctuations that we have not adequately hedged could adversely affect our profitability. We also face risks arising from the imposition of exchange controls and currency devaluations. Exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into NIS or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or businesses located in or conducted within a country imposing controls. Currency devaluations result in a diminished value of funds denominated in the currency of the country instituting the devaluation. We are subject to a disproportionate impact on our properties due to concentration in certain areas. As of December 31, 2013, approximately 11.5%, 9.6%, 6.8% and 4.3% of our total GLA was located in Florida (U.S.), the greater Toronto area (Canada), the greater Montreal area (Canada) and metropolitan Helsinki (Finland), respectively. A regional recession or other major, localized economic disruption or a natural disaster, such as an earthquake or hurricane, in any of these areas could adversely affect our ability to generate or increase operating revenues from our properties, attract new tenants to our properties or dispose of unproductive properties. Any reduction in the revenues from our properties would effectively reduce the income we generate from them, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Conversely, strong economic conditions in a region could lead to increased building activity and increased competition for tenants. 11 Table of Contents Certain emerging markets in which we have properties are subject to greater risks than more developed markets, including significant legal, economic and political risks. Some of our current and planned investments are located in emerging markets, primarily within Central and Eastern Europe and Brazil, which as of December 31, 2013 comprised 19.0% and 0.5% of our total GLA, respectively, and in India, where we have an investment commitment in Hiref International LLC, a real estate fund, for U.S.$ 110 million (of which we had invested U.S.$ 95.2 million through December 31, 2013) and, as such, are subject to greater risks than those in markets in Northern and Western Europe and North America, including greater legal, economic and political risks. Our performance could be adversely affected by events beyond our control in these markets, such as a general downturn in the economy of countries in which these markets are located, conflicts between states, changes in regulatory requirements and applicable laws (including in relation to taxation and planning), adverse conditions in local financial markets and interest and inflation rate fluctuations. In addition, adverse political or economic developments in these or in neighboring countries could have a significant negative impact on, among other things, individual countries’ gross domestic products, foreign trade or economies in general. Recent examples of potentially detrimental developments in emerging markets include the economic downturn in Brazil and the geopolitical tension between Russia and its neighbors. While we currently have no plans to enter new emerging markets, some emerging economies in which we currently operate have historically experienced substantial rates of inflation, an unstable currency, high government debt relative to gross domestic products, a weak banking system providing limited liquidity to domestic enterprises, high levels of loss-making enterprises that continue to operate due to the lack of effective bankruptcy proceedings, significant increases in unemployment and underemployment and the impoverishment of a large portion of the population. This may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our reported financial condition and results of operations under IFRS are impacted by changes in value of our real estate assets, which is inherently subjective and subject to conditions outside of our control. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS. There are significant differences between IFRS and U.S. GAAP which lead to different results under the two systems of accounting. Currently, one of the most significant differences between IFRS and U.S. GAAP is an option under IFRS to record the fair market value of our real estate assets in our financial statements on a quarterly basis, which we have adopted. Accordingly, our financial statements have been significantly impacted in the past by fluctuations due to changes in fair market value of our assets even though no actual disposition of assets took place. For example, in 2013 and 2012, we increased the fair value of our properties on a consolidated basis by NIS 933 million and NIS 1,913 million, respectively. The valuation of property is inherently subjective due to the individual nature of each property. As a result, valuations are subject to uncertainty. Fair value of investment property including development and land was determined by accredited independent appraisers with respect to 60% of such investment properties during the year ended December 31, 2013 (48% of which were performed at December 31, 2013). A significant proportion of the valuations of our properties were not performed by appraisers at the balance sheet date, based on materiality thresholds and other considerations that we have applied across our properties. As a result of these factors, there is no assurance that the valuations of our interests in the properties reflected in our financial statements would reflect actual sale prices even where any such sales occur shortly after the financial statements are prepared. Other real estate companies that are publicly traded in the United States use U.S. GAAP to report their financial statements and are therefore not currently required to record the fair market value of their real estate assets on a quarterly basis. As a result, significant declines or fluctuations in the value of real estate assets could impact us disproportionately compared to these other companies. In addition, in recent years several amendments have been made to IFRS standards, including those that affect us, and we have had to revise our accounting policies in order to comply with such amended standards. Commonly, the transition provisions of these amendments require us to implement the amendments on comparative figures as well. Figures with respect to prior periods that are not required to be included in our financial statements are therefore not adjusted retrospectively. As a result, the utility of the comparative figures for certain years may be limited. 12 Table of Contents Real estate is generally an illiquid investment. Real estate is generally an illiquid investment as compared to investments in securities. While we do not currently anticipate a need to dispose of a significant number of real estate assets in the short-term, such illiquidity may affect our ability to dispose of or liquidate real estate assets in a timely manner and at satisfactory prices in response to changes in economic, real estate market or other conditions. We may be obliged to dispose of our interest in a property or properties at a time, for a price or on terms not of our choosing. In addition, some of our anchor tenants have rights of first refusal or rights of first offer to purchase the properties in which they lease space in the event that we seek to dispose of such properties. The presence of these rights of first refusal and rights of first offer could make it more difficult for us to sell these properties in response to market conditions. These limitations on our ability to sell our properties could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our competitive position and future prospects depend on our senior management and the senior management of our subsidiaries and affiliates. The success of our property development and investment activities depend, among other things, on the expertise of our board of directors, our executive team and other key personnel in identifying appropriate opportunities and managing such activities, as well as the executive teams of our subsidiaries and affiliates. The employment agreements pursuant to which Messrs. Katzman and Segal provide such services to Gazit-Globe have expired. Even though their employment agreements have expired, Messrs. Katzman and Segal are continuing to serve as our executive chairman and executive vice chairman, respectively. Mr. Katzman currently also serves as the chairman of the board of Equity One, First Capital, Citycon, Atrium, and Norstar and Mr. Segal currently also serves as the vice chairman of the board, president and chief executive officer of First Capital, the vice chairman of the board of Equity One and Norstar, and as a board member of Dori Group. With respect to some of these positions, Messrs. Katzman and Segal have written engagement and remuneration agreements with such public subsidiaries and affiliates which remain in effect. In addition, recent legislation in Israel, specifically Amendment 20 to the Israeli Companies Law, requires that the Company’s compensation plan for officers as well as the employment agreement of its president be approved by a special majority shareholder vote. The loss of some or all of these individuals or an inability to attract, retain and maintain additional personnel, including due to the possible failure to attain special majority shareholder approval mentioned above, could prevent us from implementing our business strategy and could adversely affect our business and our future financial condition or results of operations. We do not carry key man insurance with respect to any of these individuals. We cannot guaranty that we will be able to retain all of our existing senior management personnel or to attract additional qualified personnel when needed. We face significant competition for the acquisition of real estate assets, which may impede our ability to make future acquisitions or may increase the cost of these acquisitions. We compete with many other entities for acquisitions of necessity-driven real estate, including institutional pension funds, real estate investment trusts and other owner-operators of shopping centers. This competition may affect us in various ways, including: • reducing properties available for acquisition; • increasing the cost of properties available for acquisition; • reducing the rate of return on these properties; • reducing rents payable to us; • interfering with our ability to attract and retain tenants; • increasing vacancy rates at our properties; and • adversely affecting our ability to minimize expenses of operation. 13 Table of Contents The number of entities and the amount of funds competing for suitable properties and companies may increase. Such competition may reduce the number of suitable properties and companies available for purchase and increase the bargaining position of their owners. We may lose acquisition opportunities in the future if we do not match prices, structures and terms offered by competitors and if we match our competitors, we may experience decreased rates of return and increased risks of loss. If we must pay higher prices, our profitability may be reduced. Our competitors may enjoy significant competitive advantages that result from, among other things, a lower cost of capital and enhanced operating efficiencies. Some of these competitors may also have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of acquisitions. Furthermore, companies that are potential acquisition targets may find competitors to be more attractive because they may have greater resources, may be willing to pay more or may have a more compatible operating philosophy. These factors may create competitive disadvantages for us with respect to acquisition opportunities. Our investments in development and redevelopment projects may not yield anticipated returns, and we are subject to general construction risks which may increase costs and delay or prevent the construction of our projects. An important component of our growth strategy is the redevelopment of properties we own and the development of new projects. Some of our assets, representing 2.3% and 4.6% of the value of our properties (including of our equity-accounted joint ventures) as of December 31, 2013, are at various stages of development and redevelopment (including expansions), respectively. These developments and redevelopments may not be as successful as currently expected. Expansion, renovation and development projects and the related construction entail the following considerable risks: • significant time lag between commencement and completion subjects us to risks of fluctuations in the general economy; • failure or inability to obtain construction or permanent financing on favorable terms; • inability to achieve projected rental rates or anticipated pace of lease-up; • delay of completion of projects, which may require payment of penalties under lease agreements and subject us to claims for breach of contract; • incurrence of construction costs for a development project in excess of original estimates; • expenditure of time and resources on projects that may never be completed; • acts of nature, such as harsh climate conditions in the winter, earthquakes and floods, that may damage or delay construction of properties; and • delays and costs relating to required zoning or other regulatory approvals. The inability to complete the construction of a property on schedule or at all for any of the above reasons could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Insurance on real estate may not cover all losses. We currently carry insurance on all of our properties. Certain of our policies contain coverage limitations, including exclusions for certain catastrophic perils and certain aggregate loss limits. For example, we have a portfolio of properties, representing 3.4% of our total GLA, located in California, including several properties in the San Francisco Bay and Los Angeles areas. These properties may be subject to the risk that an earthquake or other similar peril would affect the operation of these properties. We currently do not have comprehensive insurance covering losses from these perils due to the properties being uninsurable, not justifiable and/or commercially reasonable to insure, or for which any insurance that may be available would be insufficient to repair or replace a damaged or destroyed property. In addition, we have a number of properties in Florida and the northeastern U.S. states representing 15.5% of our total GLA, that are susceptible to hurricanes and tropical storms. While we generally carry windstorm coverage with respect to these properties, the policies contain per occurrence deductibles and aggregate loss limits that limit the amount of proceeds that we may be able to recover. In addition, our properties in Central and Eastern Europe are generally not subject to flood insurance. Further, due to inflation, changes in codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors, it may not be feasible to use insurance proceeds to replace a building after it has been damaged or destroyed. 14 Table of Contents The availability of insurance coverage may decrease and the prices for insurance may increase as a consequence of significant losses incurred by the insurance industry. In the event of future industry losses, we may be unable to renew or duplicate our current insurance coverage in adequate amounts or at reasonable prices. In addition, insurance companies may no longer offer coverage against certain types of losses, or, if offered, the expense of obtaining these types of insurance may not be justified. We therefore may cease to have insurance coverage against certain types of losses and/or there may be decreases in the limits of insurance available. Should an uninsured loss, a loss over insured limits or a loss with respect to which insurance proceeds would be insufficient to repair or replace the property occur, we may lose capital invested in the affected property as well as anticipated income and capital appreciation from that property, while we may remain liable for any debt or other financial obligation related to that property. A failure by Equity One to be treated as a REIT could have an adverse effect on our investment in Equity One. As of December 31, 2013, Equity One has been treated as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Subject to certain exceptions, a REIT generally is able to avoid entity-level tax on income it distributes to its shareholders, provided certain requirements are met, including certain income, asset, and distribution requirements. If Equity One ceases to be treated as a REIT and cannot qualify for any relief provisions under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, Equity One would generally be subject to an entity-level tax on its income at the graduated rates applicable to corporations. Such tax would reduce Equity One’s profitability and would have an adverse effect on our investment in Equity One. If we or third-party managers fail to efficiently manage our properties, tenants may not renew their leases or we may become subject to unforeseen liabilities. If we fail to efficiently manage a property or properties, increased costs could result with respect to maintenance and improvement of properties, loss of opportunities to improve income and yield and a decline in the value of the properties. In addition, we sometimes engage third parties to provide management services for our properties. We may not be able to locate and enter into agreements with qualified management service providers. If any third parties providing us with management services do not comply with their agreements or otherwise do not provide services at the level that we expect, our tenant relationships and rental rates for such properties and, therefore, their condition and value, could be negatively affected. We rely on third-party management companies to manage certain of our properties which represented 3.6% of our total GLA as of December 31, 2013. While we are in regular contact with our third-party managers, we do not supervise them and their personnel on a day-to-day basis and we cannot guaranty that they will manage our properties in a manner that is consistent with their obligations under our agreements, that they will not be negligent in their performance or engage in other criminal or fraudulent activity, or that they will not otherwise default on their management obligations to us. If any of the foregoing occurs, the relationships with our tenants could be damaged, which may cause the tenants not to renew their leases, and we could incur liabilities resulting from loss or injury to the properties or to persons at the properties. If we are unable to lease the properties or we become subject to significant liabilities as a result of third-party management performance, our operating results and financial condition could be substantially harmed. 15 Table of Contents Properties held by us are subject to multiple permits and administrative approvals and to compliance with existing and future laws and regulations. Our operations and properties, including our construction, development and redevelopment activities, are subject to regulation by various governmental entities and agencies in connection with obtaining and renewing various licenses, permits, approvals and authorizations, as well as with ongoing compliance with existing and future laws, regulations and standards. A significant change in the regime for obtaining or renewing these licenses, permits, approvals and authorizations, or a significant change in the licenses, permits, approvals and authorizations our operations and properties are subject to, could result in us incurring substantially increased costs which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, each maintenance, construction, development and redevelopment project we undertake must generally receive administrative approvals from various governmental agencies, including fire, health and safety and environmental protection agencies, as well as technical approvals from various utility providers, including electricity, gas and sewage services. These requirements may hinder, delay or significantly increase the costs of these projects, and failure to comply with these requirements may result in fines and penalties as well as cancellation of such projects even, in certain cases, the demolition of the building already constructed. Such consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subjected to liability for environmental contamination. As an owner and operator of real estate, we may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances present at, on, under, in or released from our properties, as well as for governmental fines and damages for injuries to persons and property. We may be liable without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the environmental contamination and with respect to properties we have acquired, whether the contamination occurred before or after the acquisition. The presence of such hazardous or toxic substances, or the failure to remediate such substances properly, may also adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the real estate or to borrow using the real estate as security. Laws and regulations, as these may be amended over time, may also impose liability for the release of certain materials into the air or water from a property, including asbestos, and such release can form the basis for liability to third persons for personal injury or other damages. Other laws and regulations can limit the development of, and impose liability for, the disturbance of wetlands or the habitats of threatened or endangered species. We own several properties that will require or are currently undergoing varying levels of environmental remediation. The presence of contamination or the failure to properly remediate contamination at any of our properties may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease those properties or to borrow funds by using those properties as collateral. The costs or liabilities could exceed the value of the affected real estate. Although we have environmental insurance policies covering most of our properties, there is no assurance that these policies will cover any or all of the potential losses or damages from environmental contamination; therefore, any liability, fine or damage could directly impact our financial results. We rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions and manage our business. Disruptions in both our primary and secondary (back-up) systems or breaches of our network security could harm our ability to run our business and expose us to liability. In order to successfully operate our business, it is essential that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business-critical computer systems. Our computer systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, cyber-attacks, catastrophic events such as fires, hurricanes, earthquakes and tornadoes, and usage errors by our employees. If our computer systems cease to function properly or are damaged, we may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. Any material interruption in our computer systems may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Additionally, increased global IT security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. In the event a security breach or failure results in the disclosure of sensitive third party data or the transmission of harmful/malicious code to third parties, we could be subject to liability claims. Depending on their nature and scope, such threats also could potentially lead to improper use of our systems and networks, manipulation and destruction of data, loss of trade secrets, system downtimes and operational disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect our reputation, competitiveness and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents We have significant investments in different countries and our worldwide after-tax income as well as our ability to repatriate it might be influenced by any change in the tax law in such countries. Our effective tax rate reflected in our financial statements might increase or decrease over time as a result of changes in corporate income tax rates, or by other changes in the tax laws of the various countries in which we operate which could reduce our after-tax income or impose or increase taxes upon the repatriation of earnings from countries in which we operate. We cannot predict whether we will be subject to any further claims similar to those addressed in the derivative action by former shareholders of Meinl European Land Limited or by others, and any adverse resolution of such claims could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Although on July 28, 2011, our settlement agreement with Meinl Bank AG, related parties, and others became fully effective and the parties subsequently met their obligations to have all outstanding claims dismissed, we can provide no assurance that we or Atrium will not be subject to any further claims similar to those addressed in the derivative action by former shareholders of Meinl European Land Limited or by others. In addition, further to a criminal investigation in Austria against Julius Meinl, the controlling shareholder of Meinl Bank AG, stemming from events that occurred in or before 2007, various investors in Atrium have alleged that Atrium is liable for related wrongdoing including fraud, breach of trust, and other infringements of Austrian laws. The public prosecutor has directed Atrium to reply to the allegations and has started criminal investigation proceedings against Atrium based on the Austrian Corporate Criminal Liability Act. This legislation, which came into force in 2006, is of uncertain application. Atrium’s management believes a finding of liability on its part would be inappropriate. Accordingly, Atrium intends to actively defend the proceedings. Any adverse resolution of the various aforementioned claims, if they were to materialize, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Please see also “Item 8—Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” Risks Related to Our Structure We may face difficulties in obtaining or using information from our public subsidiaries. We rely on information that we receive from our public subsidiaries both to provide guidance in connection with the business and to comply with our reporting obligations as a public company. We receive information from our public subsidiaries on a quarterly basis in connection with the preparation of our quarterly or annual results of operations. While we believe that we have been, and will continue to be, provided with all material information from our subsidiaries that we require to manage our business and comply with our reporting obligations as a public company, we do not have formal arrangements to receive information with all of our public subsidiaries. In addition, directors in our public subsidiaries who are affiliated with us receive information at their periodic board meetings and through their discussions with management. However, the ability of these directors to use or disclose that information to others at Gazit-Globe prior to its disclosure by the public subsidiary may be subject to limitations resulting from the corporate governance and securities laws governing such subsidiaries and contractual and fiduciary obligations limiting the actions of their directors. In limited circumstances, we could face a conflict between our disclosure obligations and the disclosure obligations of our public subsidiaries. In addition, if we wish to engage in a capital markets or other transaction in which we are required to disclose certain information that our subsidiaries are not required or willing to disclose under their respective securities laws, we may need to change the timing or form of our capital raising plans. Our public subsidiaries are listed in different jurisdictions and operate in different geographic markets and do not present information regarding their operations on a uniform basis. Accordingly, we may not present certain data that is typically presented by other real estate companies in certain jurisdictions. A significant portion of our business is conducted through public subsidiaries and our failure to generate sufficient cash flow from these subsidiaries, or otherwise receive cash from these subsidiaries, could result in our inability to repay our indebtedness. We conduct the substantial majority of our operations through public subsidiaries and affiliates that operate in our key regions around the world. After satisfying their cash needs, these subsidiaries have traditionally declared dividends to their stockholders, including us. In 2013, we received dividend payments of NIS 690 million from subsidiaries and affiliates. 17 Table of Contents The ability of our subsidiaries in general, and our public subsidiaries in particular, to pay dividends and interest or make other distributions on equity to us, is subject to limitations that could change or become more stringent in the future. Applicable laws of the respective jurisdictions governing each subsidiary may place limitations on payments of dividends, interest or other distributions by each of our subsidiaries or may subject them to withholding taxes. The determination to pay a dividend is made by the boards of directors of each entity and our nominees or persons otherwise affiliated with us represent less than a majority of the members of the boards of directors of each of these entities. In addition, our subsidiaries incur debt on their own behalf and the instruments governing such debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Creditors of our subsidiaries will be entitled to payment from the assets of those subsidiaries before those assets can be distributed to us. The inability of our operating subsidiaries to make distributions to us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The control that we exert over our public subsidiaries may be subject to legal and other limitations, and a decision by us to exert that control may adversely impact perceptions of investors in those subsidiaries. Although we have a controlling interest in each of our public subsidiaries, Equity One, First Capital, Citycon, and Dori Group, and have joint control over Atrium which is an equity-accounted investee, they are publicly traded companies in which significant portions of the shares are held by public shareholders. These entities are subject to legal or regulatory requirements that are typical for public companies and we may be unable to take certain courses of action without the prior approval of a particular shareholder or a specified percentage of shareholders (either under shareholders’ agreements or by operation of law or the rules of a stock exchange). The existence of minority interests in certain of our subsidiaries may limit our ability to influence the operations of these subsidiaries, to increase our equity interests in these subsidiaries, to combine similar operations, to utilize synergies that may exist between the operations of different subsidiaries or to reorganize our structure in ways that may be beneficial to us. Under certain circumstances, the boards of directors of those entities may decide to undertake actions that they believe are beneficial to the shareholders of the subsidiary, but that are not necessarily in the best interests of Gazit-Globe. In addition, in the event that one of our subsidiaries or affiliates issues additional shares either for purposes of capital raising or in an acquisition, our holdings in such subsidiary or affiliate may be diluted or we may be forced to invest capital in such subsidiary to avoid dilution at a time that is not of our choosing and that adversely impacts our capital requirements. The market price of our ordinary shares may be adversely affected if the market prices of our publicly traded subsidiaries and affiliates decrease. A significant portion of our assets is comprised of equity securities of publicly traded companies, including Equity One, First Capital, Citycon and Atrium. The stock prices of these publicly traded companies have been volatile, and have been subject to fluctuations due to market conditions and other factors which are often unrelated to operating results and which are beyond our control. Fluctuations in the market price and valuations of our holdings in these companies may affect the market’s valuation of the price of our ordinary shares and may also thereby impact our results of operations. If the value of our assets decreases significantly as a result of a decrease in the value of our interest in our publicly traded subsidiaries, our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected and the market price of our ordinary shares may also decline. Changes in our ownership levels of our public subsidiaries and related determinations may impact the presentation of our financial statements and affect investor perception of us. The determination under IFRS as to whether we consolidate the assets, liabilities and results of operations of our public subsidiaries depends on whether we have legal or effective control over these subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2013, as required by IFRS, we determined that we had effective control over Citycon, Equity One and First Capital even though we had less than a majority ownership interest and/or potential voting rights interest in each entity. In the future, our public subsidiaries may undertake securities offerings or issue securities in connection with acquisitions which result in dilution of our ownership interest. To date, we have frequently participated in securities offerings by our subsidiaries with the result that our ownership interest has generally not been diluted or the dilution has been minimal; however, there can be no assurance that we will do so in the future. Furthermore, we may determine that it is in our best interests and the best interests of our public subsidiaries that they undertake an acquisition that results in dilution to our equity position. In the future, if we do not exercise effective control over a particular subsidiary, we will need to account for our investment in that subsidiary on an equity basis rather than on a consolidated basis. If a change in the level of control which impacts whether and how we consolidate our public subsidiaries occurs, such an event may affect investor perception of us and our business model even if there is no material economic impact on our company. 18 Table of Contents Changes in accounting standards may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. New accounting standards or pronouncements that may become applicable to us from time to time, or changes in the interpretation of existing standards and pronouncements, could have a significant adverse effect on our reported results for the affected periods. It would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our shareholders if we become subject to regulation under the U.S. Investment Company Act of 1940. We do not expect to be subject to regulation under the U.S. Investment Company Act of 1940, or the Investment Company Act, because we are not engaged in the business of investing or trading in securities. In the event we engage in business combinations which result in our holding passive investment interests in a number of entities, we could be subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act. In this event, we would be required to register as an investment company and become obligated to comply with a variety of substantive requirements under the Investment Company Act, including limitations on capital structure, restrictions on specified investments, and compliance with reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy disclosure and other rules and regulations that would significantly increase our operating expenses, which may make it impractical, if not impossible, for us to continue our business as currently conducted. Furthermore, as a non-U.S. entity, we would be unable to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, which could result in us needing to reincorporate as a U.S. entity or cease being a public company in the United States. As a result of these restrictions, any determination that we are an investment company would have material adverse consequences for our investors. Joint venture investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority, our reliance on the financial condition of co-venturers and disputes between us and our co-venturers. We enter into joint ventures, partnerships and other co-ownership arrangements for the purpose of making investments, which currently include primarily our investment in Atrium with Apollo Global Real Estate Management LP (“Apollo”) (the current owner of CPI CEE Management LLC (“CPI”), the original partner to the investment), Equity One’s joint ventures with Liberty International Holdings Limited (“LIH”), Global Retail Investors LLC (“GRI”), DRA Advisors, LLC, and the New York Common Retirement Fund, and Citycon’s recent joint investment with the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board (“CPPIB”) in the Kista Galleria Shopping Center located in Stockholm, Sweden. Under the agreements with respect to certain of our joint ventures, we may not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding the joint venture. Co-venturers may have economic or other business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. Such investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions, such as a sale, because neither we nor the co-venturer would have full control over the joint venture. Investments in joint ventures may, under certain circumstances, involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that partners or co-venturers might become bankrupt or fail to fund their required capital contributions. While we have not experienced any material disputes in the past, disputes between us and co-venturers may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and/or directors from focusing their time and effort on our business. Consequently, actions by or disputes with co-venturers might result in subjecting properties owned by the joint venture to additional risk. In addition, we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of our co-venturers. Proposed changes to enhance Israeli corporate governance laws may adversely affect our ability to expand our business and raise capital. In December 2013, the law for the promoting competition and the reducing concentration was enacted by the Israeli Knesset (the “Concentration Law”). The Concentration Law imposes limitations, in addition to other restrictions, on what it deems “pyramidal structures,” namely a corporate structure where control in a public company is held through a chain of more than one other public company. 19 Table of Contents The Concentration Law imposes a two-layer limitation on the total number of public companies in pyramidal structure. Under its provisions, the Company is considered a “second layer company” (as it is controlled by Norstar, which is itself a public Company), the Company’s subsidiary, U. Dori Group Ltd., is considered a “third layer company” and the latter’s subsidiary, U. Dori Construction Ltd., is considered a “fourth layer company.” Therefore, by the end of a transition period (four years for a fourth layer company and six years for a third layer company), we must make structural adjustments to comply with the Concentration Law since Gazit Globe, as a second layer company, will no longer be permitted to control another public company in Israel. In addition, during the transition period, the Concentration Law strengthens corporate governance rules applicable to both U. Dori Group Ltd. and to U. Dori Construction Ltd. as third and fourth layer companies, respectively, regarding the required proportion of external directors and/or independent directors out of their total board membership, while also precluding parent companies from participating in the election of external directors. If the Company fails to implement the aforementioned provisions of the Concentration Law during the transition period, it will be exposed to sanctions, including the appointment of a trustee for the sale of its controlling interest in U. Dori Group Ltd. and\or the sale of the latter’s controlling interest in U. Dori Construction. For further information, please see Note 2A to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. The Concentration Law authorizes the Israeli Minister of Finance establish limits with respect to the aggregate credit that may be provided by financial institutions to a specific corporation or a business group (defined to include an ultimate controlling shareholder and the companies under its control). Such limitations, if ultimately established, might limit our ability to refinance our debt from financial institutions. In addition, the Concentration Law imposes limitations on the holdings by non-finance companies in the financial sector and similar limitations on financial institutions with holdings in non-financial sectors. Such limitations may restrict the ability of financial institutions or their controlling shareholders to invest in the Company, or, in turn, may restrict the ability of the Company to invest in such financial institutions. Risks Related to Investment in our Ordinary Shares The price of our ordinary shares may be volatile. The market price of our ordinary shares could be highly volatile and may fluctuate substantially as a result of many factors, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations; • variance in our financial performance from the expectations of market analysts; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant business developments, changes in tenant relationships, acquisitions or expansion plans; • our involvement in litigation or regulatory proceedings; • our sale of ordinary shares or other securities in the future; • market conditions in our industry and changes in estimates of the future size and growth rate of our markets; • changes in key personnel; • the trading volume of our ordinary shares; and • general economic and market conditions. Although our ordinary shares are listed on the Tel-Aviv Stock Exchange (“TASE”), the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) and the Toronto Stock Exchange (“TSX”), an active trading market on the NYSE and the TSX for our ordinary shares may not be sustained. If an active market for our ordinary shares is not sustained, it may be difficult to sell ordinary shares in the U.S. and Canada. 20 Table of Contents In addition, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. If we were involved in any similar litigation we could incur substantial costs and our management’s attention and resources could be diverted. Future sales of our ordinary shares could reduce the market price of our ordinary shares. If we or our shareholders sell substantial amounts of our ordinary shares, either on the TASE or on the NYSE or the TSX, or if there is a public perception that these sales may occur in the future, the market price of our ordinary shares may decline. Raising additional capital by issuing securities may cause dilution to existing shareholders. In the future, we may increase our capital resources by additional offerings of equity securities. Because our decision to issue equity securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, holders of our ordinary shares bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our ordinary shares and diluting their share holdings in us. Although we have paid dividends in the past, and we expect to pay dividends in the future in accordance with our dividend policy, our ability to pay dividends may be adversely affected by our performance, the ability of our subsidiaries and affiliates to efficiently distribute cash to Gazit-Globe and, since we do not only use operating cash flows to pay our dividend, our ability to obtain financing. In the past, our policy has been, subject to legal requirements, to distribute a quarterly dividend, the minimum amount of which we set before each fiscal year. We intend to continue our policy of distributing a quarterly dividend. Any dividend will depend on our earnings, financial condition and other business and economic factors affecting us at the time as our board of directors may consider relevant. We may pay dividends in any fiscal year only out of “profits,” as defined by the Israeli Companies Law, unless otherwise authorized by an Israeli court, and provided that the distribution is not reasonably expected to impair our ability to fulfill our outstanding and expected obligations. Our ability to pay dividends is also dependent on whether our subsidiaries and affiliates distribute dividends to Gazit-Globe so that Gazit-Globe can have adequate cash for distribution to its shareholders and, since we do not only use operating cash flows to pay our dividend, on our ability to obtain financing. In the event that our subsidiaries or affiliates are restricted from distributing dividends due to their earnings, financial condition or results of operations or they determine not to distribute dividends, including as a result of taxes that may be payable with respect to such distribution, and in the event that our debt or equity financing is restricted or limited, we may not be able to pay any dividends or in the amounts otherwise anticipated. If we do not pay dividends or pay a smaller dividend, our ordinary shares may be less valuable because a return on an investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. Our controlling shareholder has the ability to take actions that may conflict with the interests of other holders of our shares. Chaim Katzman, our chairman, and certain members of his family own or control, including through private entities owned by them and trusts under which they are the beneficiaries, directly and indirectly, approximately 28.0% of Norstar’s, our controlling shareholder, outstanding shares as of April 10, 2014. In addition, Dor J. Segal, our executive vice-chairman, holds 9.4% of the outstanding shares of Norstar and Erica Ottosson (Mr. Segal’s spouse) holds 6.2% of the outstanding shares of Norstar. Norstar owned 50.6% of our outstanding ordinary shares as of April 10, 2014. First U.S. Financial, LLC, or FUF, holds 18.8% of the outstanding shares of Norstar. Mr. Katzman was granted an irrevocable proxy by FUF to vote, at his discretion, the shares of Norstar held by FUF. FUF is owned by Mr. Katzman, including through private entities owned by Mr. Katzman and members of his family, both directly and indirectly (51.4%); Erica Ottosson (22.6%); and Martin Klein (26%). In addition, Mr. Katzman was granted an irrevocable proxy by Erica Ottosson to vote her shares of FUF stock with respect to all matters at FUF shareholder meetings. On January 30, 2013, Mr. Katzman, together with related parties, including FUF (collectively, the “Katzman Group”) and Mr. Segal, Ms. Ottosson, together with related parties (collectively, the “Segal Group”), entered into a shareholders agreement with respect to their holdings in Norstar, which among other things and subject to certain conditions, required the Katzman Group to vote its voting securities in favor of two nominees to the Norstar board of directors designated by the Segal Group, and for the Segal Group to vote its voting securities in favor of nominees designated by the Katzman Group. Accordingly, Mr. Katzman will be able to exercise control over the outcome of substantially all matters required to be submitted to our shareholders for approval, including decisions relating to the election of our board of directors, except for those matters which require special majorities under Israeli law. In addition, Mr. Katzman may be able to exercise control over the outcome of any proposed merger or consolidation of the Company. The aforementioned may discourage third parties from seeking to acquire control of us which may adversely affect the market price of our shares. Please see also “Item 7—Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Related Party Transactions.” 21 Table of Contents Our ordinary shares are not included in any real estate index in the United States, which may impact demand among investors and adversely impact our share price. We do not currently qualify to be included in the real estate indexes in which the securities of many U.S. REITs are included. This may preclude certain investors that traditionally invest in real estate companies from investing in our shares and may adversely impact demand from other investors. This may adversely impact our share price and liquidity in the United States. Risks Associated with our Ordinary Shares Our ordinary shares are traded on more than one market and this may result in price variations. Our ordinary shares have been traded on the TASE since January 1983, on the NYSE since December 2011, and on the TSX since October 2013. Trading in our ordinary shares on these markets takes place in different currencies (U.S. dollars on the NYSE, NIS on the TASE, and Canadian dollars on the TSX), and at different times (resulting from different time zones, different trading days and different public holidays in the United States, Israel, and Canada). The trading prices of our ordinary shares on these three markets may differ due to these and other factors. Any decrease in the price of our ordinary shares on the TASE could cause a decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on the NYSE and/or the TSX and vice versa. As a foreign private issuer, we follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of applicable SEC and NYSE requirements, which may result in less protection than is accorded to shareholders under rules applicable to domestic issuers. As a foreign private issuer, in reliance on Section 303A.11 of the NYSE Listed Company Manual, which permits a foreign private issuer to follow the corporate governance practices of its home country, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of those otherwise required under the NYSE corporate governance standards for domestic issuers. We currently follow the NYSE corporate governance standards for domestic issuers, except with respect to private placements to directors, officers or 5% shareholders, with respect to which we follow home country practice in Israel, under which we may not be required to seek the approval of our shareholders for such private placements which would require shareholder approval under NYSE rules applicable to a U.S. company. We may in the future elect to follow home country practice in Israel with regard to formation of compensation, nominating and corporate governance committees, separate executive sessions of independent directors and non-management directors and shareholder approval for establishment and material amendments of equity compensation plans, transactions involving below market price issuances in private placements of more than 20% of outstanding shares, or issuances that result in a change in control. If we follow our home country governance practices on these matters, we may not have a compensation, nominating or corporate governance committee, we may not have mandatory executive sessions of independent directors and non-management directors, and we may not seek approval of our shareholders for material amendments of equity compensation plans and the share issuances described above. Accordingly, following our home country governance practices as opposed to the requirements that would otherwise apply to a U.S. company listed on the NYSE may provide less protection than is accorded to investors under the NYSE corporate governance standards applicable to domestic issuers. In addition, we are not currently obligated to follow additional corporate governance practices promulgated by the TSX provided that (i) no more than 25% of the trading volume in our common stock over any six-month period occurs on the TSX and (ii) another stock exchange is providing review of the action in question. Should TSX regulations change or were we to exceed the aforementioned 25% threshold, we could become obligated to comply with TSX corporate governance requirements that also differ from those of the NYSE and from home country practice in Israel. 22 Table of Contents We are a “SEC foreign issuer” under Canadian securities regulations and are exempt from certain requirements of Canadian securities laws. Although we are a reporting issuer in Canada, we are a “SEC foreign issuer” within the meaning of National Instrument 71-102—Continuous Disclosure and Other Exemptions Relating to Foreign Issuers under Canadian securities law statutes and are therefore exempt from certain Canadian securities laws relating to continuous disclosure obligations and proxy solicitation as long as we comply with certain reporting requirements applicable in the United States, provided that the relevant documents filed with the SEC are filed in Canada and sent to our shareholders in Canada to the extent and in the manner and within the time required by applicable U.S. requirements. Therefore, there may be less publicly available information in Canada about us than is regularly published by or about other reporting issuers in Canada. In the event that we cease to be a “SEC foreign issuer”, we may have to comply with additional Canadian securities laws and reporting requirements. We are incurring and will continue to incur significant additional increased costs as a result of the registration of our ordinary shares under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the recent listing of our shares on the Toronto Stock Exchange and our management has been devoting and will be required to devote substantial time to compliance and new compliance initiatives. As a public company in the United States and Canada, we are incurring and will continue to incur additional significant accounting, legal and other expenses that we did not incur before our U.S. offering and TSX listing. We are also incurring costs associated with the requirements under Section 404 and other provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Similarly, while National Instrument 52-109—Certification of Disclosure in Issuers’ Annual and Interim Filings under Canadian securities laws statutes permits us to satisfy the Canadian equivalent of the certification obligations under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act on annual basis by simply re-filing as soon as practicable the same certifications in Canada as were originally filed with the SEC in the United States, we are also now obligated to file separate interim certifications in Canada with our quarterly financial results. We expect these rules and regulations to continue to increase our legal and financial compliance costs. In addition, becoming a public company in the United States and Canada has introduced new costs, such as additional stock exchange listing fees and shareholder reporting and is likely to introduce other costs, and has and will continue to take a significant amount of management’s time. The implementation and testing of such processes and systems has required us to hire outside consultants and incur other significant costs. In addition, we remain a publicly traded company on the TASE and are subject to Israeli securities laws and disclosure requirements. Accordingly, we need to comply with U.S., Canadian, and Israeli disclosure requirements and the resolution of any conflicts between those requirements may lead to additional costs and require significant management time. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure and other matters, may be implemented in the future, which may increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more time consuming and divert management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed. Being a publicly traded company in North America and being subject to these rules and regulations has made it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and qualified executive officers. 23 Table of Contents Most of the shares held by our majority shareholder, Norstar Holdings Inc., are pledged to secure its indebtedness and foreclosure on such pledges, or other negative developments with respect to Norstar Holdings Inc., could adversely impact the market price of our ordinary shares. Our majority shareholder, Norstar, had voting power over 50.6% of our outstanding shares as of April 10, 2014. Norstar is a public company listed on the TASE. Most of our shares held by Norstar are pledged predominantly to a number of financial institutions who are lenders to Norstar and are otherwise pledged to secure a small portion of Norstar’s debentures. Based on Norstar’s most recent publicly filed reports in Israel, Norstar was in compliance as of December 31, 2013 with all of the covenants governing such indebtedness, including the requirement that the value of the pledged shares exceeds a certain percentage of the amount of outstanding indebtedness (“loan to value ratios”). In addition, Norstar may otherwise breach applicable covenants or default on required payments. Under those circumstances, if the secured parties foreclose on the pledge, they may acquire and seek to sell the pledged shares. The secured parties will not be subject to any restrictions other than those that apply under applicable U.S. and Israeli securities laws, and there can be no assurance that they would do so in an orderly manner. Furthermore, the mere foreclosure on the pledge and transfer of shares to such financial institutions would likely be perceived adversely by investors. In the event that the secured parties do not transfer the shares immediately, their interests may differ from those of our public stockholders. In addition, should Norstar incur significant losses, it may choose to sell outstanding shares of ours and/or no longer be able to acquire additional shares. Any of these events could adversely impact the market price of our ordinary shares. Our United States shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences if we are characterized as a “passive foreign investment company.” Generally, if for any taxable year 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or at least 50% of our assets are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, we would be characterized as a passive foreign investment company for United States federal income tax purposes. To determine whether at least 50% of our assets are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, we may use the market capitalization method for certain periods. Under the market capitalization method, the total asset value of a company would be considered to equal the fair market value of its outstanding shares plus outstanding indebtedness on a relevant testing date. Because the market price of our ordinary shares may fluctuate and may affect the determination of whether we will be considered a passive foreign investment company, there can be no assurance that we will not be considered a passive foreign investment company for any taxable year. If we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company, our United States shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences, including having gains realized on the sale of our ordinary shares treated as ordinary income, rather than capital gain, the loss of the preferential rate applicable to dividends received on our ordinary shares by individuals who are United States holders, and having interest charges apply to distributions by us and the proceeds of share sales. Our United States shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences if we are characterized as a “United States-owned foreign “corporation” unless such United States shareholders are eligible for the benefits of the U.S.-Israel income tax treaty and elect to apply the provisions of such treaty for U.S. tax purposes. Subject to certain exceptions, a portion of our dividends will be treated as U.S. source income for United States foreign tax credit purposes, in proportion to our U.S. source earnings and profits, if we are treated as a United States-owned foreign corporation for United States federal income tax purposes. Generally, we will be treated as a United States-owned foreign corporation if United States persons own, directly or indirectly, 50% or more of the voting power or value of our shares. To the extent any portion of our dividends is treated as U.S. source income pursuant to this rule, the ability of our United States shareholders to claim a foreign tax credit for any Israeli withholding taxes payable in respect of our dividends may be limited. We do not expect to maintain calculations of our earnings and profits under United States federal income tax principles and, therefore, if we are subject to the resourcing rule described above, United States shareholders should expect that the entire amount of our dividends will be treated as U.S. source income for United States foreign tax credit purposes. Importantly, however, United States shareholders who qualify for benefits of the U.S.-Israel income tax treaty may elect to treat any dividend income otherwise subject to the sourcing rule described above as foreign source income, though such income will be treated as a separate class of income subject to its own foreign tax credit limitations. The rules relating to the determination of the foreign tax credit are complex, and investors should consult their tax advisor to determine whether and to what extent they will be entitled to this credit, including the impact of, and any exception available to, the special sourcing rule described in this paragraph, and the availability and impact of the U.S.-Israel income tax treaty election described above. 24 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Operations in Israel We conduct our operations in Israel and therefore our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by political, economic and military instability in Israel. Our headquarters are located in central Israel and many of our key employees and officers and most of our directors are residents of Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect our business. Since the State of Israel was established in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have occurred between Israel and its Arab neighbors. Although Israel has entered into various agreements with Egypt, Jordan and the Palestinian Authority, there has been an increase in unrest and terrorist activity, which began in September 2000 and has continued with varying levels of severity through 2011 and into 2013. In mid-2006, Israel was engaged in an armed conflict with Hezbollah in Lebanon, resulting in thousands of rockets being fired from Lebanon and disrupting most day-to-day civilian activity in northern Israel. In December 2008 and again during November 2012, Israel engaged in an armed conflict with Hamas in the Gaza Strip, which involved missile strikes against civilian targets in various parts of Israel and negatively affected business conditions in Israel. Recent popular uprisings in various countries in the Middle East and North Africa are affecting the political stability of those countries Such instability may lead to a deterioration in the political and trade relationships that exist between the State of Israel and these countries. In addition, the recent increase in tension regarding the Iranian nuclear program is another source of potential instability in the region. Iran is also believed to have a strong influence among extremist groups in the region, such as Hamas and Hezbollah. The tension between Israel and Iran and/or these groups may escalate in the future and turn violent, which could affect the Israeli economy generally and us in particular. .Any armed conflicts, terrorist activities or political instability in the region could adversely affect business conditions and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, any major escalation in hostilities in the region could result in a portion of our employees, including executive officers, directors, and key personnel, being called up to perform military duty for an extended period of time or otherwise disrupt our normal operations. In response to increases in terrorist activity, there have been periods of significant call-ups of military reservists. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence of a significant number of our employees or of one or more of our key employees. Such disruption could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our commercial insurance does not cover losses that may occur as a result of events associated with the security situation in the Middle East, such as damages to our facilities resulting in disruption of our operations. Although the Israeli government currently covers the reinstatement value of direct damages that are caused by terrorist attacks or acts of war, we cannot guaranty that this government coverage will be maintained or will be adequate in the event we submit a claim. Provisions of Israeli law and our articles of association may delay, prevent or otherwise impede a merger with, or an acquisition of, our company, which could prevent a change of control, even when the terms of such a transaction are favorable to us and our shareholders. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires that acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds be conducted through special tender offers, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. Israeli tax considerations may also make potential transactions unappealing to us or to our shareholders whose country of residence does not have a tax treaty with Israel exempting such shareholders from Israeli tax or who are not exempt under the provisions of the Israeli Income Tax Ordinance from Israeli capital gains tax on the sale of our shares. For example, Israeli tax law does not recognize tax-free share exchanges to the same extent as U.S. tax law. Our articles of association provide that our board of directors is divided into three classes and one-third of the directors (other than the external directors) are elected by our shareholders for a term of three years each and shall replace the members of the class of directors whose term ended in such year. In addition, approval of amendments to the articles of association requires the approval of 60% of the ordinary shares represented at the general meeting, by person or by proxy, and voting on the resolution. These provisions of Israeli law and our articles of association could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders, and may limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for our ordinary shares. 25 Table of Contents It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our officers and directors and the Israeli experts named in this annual report in Israel or the United States, or to assert U.S. securities laws claims in Israel or serve process on our officers and directors and these experts. We are incorporated in Israel. Most of our executive officers and directors are not residents of the United States. Our independent registered public accounting firm is not a resident of the United States. The majority of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult for an investor, or any other person or entity, to enforce a U.S. court judgment based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us or any of these persons in a U.S. or Israeli court, or to effect service of process upon these persons in the United States. Additionally, it may be difficult for an investor, or any other person or entity, to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws on the grounds that Israel is not the most appropriate forum in which to bring such a claim. Even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. There is little binding case law in Israel addressing the matters described above. Shareholder responsibilities and rights will be governed by Israeli law which differs in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders of U.S. companies. Since we are incorporated under Israeli law, the rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by our articles of association and Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith and in a customary manner in exercising its rights and performing its obligations towards the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing its power in the company, including, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters, such as an amendment to the company’s articles of association, an increase of the company’s authorized share capital, a merger of the company and approval of related party transactions that require shareholder approval. In addition, a controlling shareholder or a shareholder who knows that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholders’ vote or to appoint or prevent the appointment of an office holder in the company or has another power with respect to the company, has a duty to act in fairness towards the company. However, Israeli law does not define the substance of this duty of fairness. Because Israeli corporate law underwent extensive revisions approximately fifteen years ago, the parameters and implications of the provisions that govern shareholder conduct have not been clearly determined and there is limited case law available to assist us in understanding the implications of these provisions that govern shareholders’ actions. These provisions may be interpreted to impose additional obligations and liabilities on our shareholders that are not typically imposed on shareholders of U.S. corporations. 