ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSInvestors should be aware that our business is subject to various risks, including the risks described below. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and investors may lose all or part of any investment. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors including the risks faced by us described below and included elsewhere. Risks Related to Our Liquidity and IndebtednessDue to our recent results of operations, we may not be able to continue as a going concern.We incurred a loss from operations of $53.4 million in the fiscal year ended December 28, 2013 and had negative cash flow from operations of $13.6 million as of December 28, 2013. Our results of operations, including operating revenues and operating cash flows, have been negatively impacted by a number of factors including material merchandise markdowns taken during the second half of fiscal 2013 to clear slow moving inventory resulting from our failure to anticipate our target customers' preferences and demand level, competitive industry conditions, and the state of the macro economy and more specifically, the fashion retail sector. We believe that these factors may continue to have a negative impact on our business. These conditions, and their continued negative impact on our liquidity, raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern under applicable authoritative literature. For this purpose, we assume that a business is generally considered to be a going concern if there is neither the intention nor the need to liquidate or materially curtail the scope of its business plans. Refer to Note 1, Basis of Consolidation included in the consolidated financial statements for additional disclosures.We may not be able to execute our business plans or meet our obligations.We have historically relied on cash flows from operations to meet our cash flow requirements for continued operations and capital projects. We had cash available of $16.5 million and total net working capital of $24.0 million as of December 28, 2013. We believe that our current sources of funding and cash provided by operations, combined with actions discussed in more detail below, will be sufficient to fund our current business plan and meet our obligations through fiscal 2014 if we are successful in executing our business plan; however, our ability to continue to fund operations and meet our obligations is largely dependent on our ability to gauge the fashion tastes of our customers and to provide merchandise that satisfies customer demand. Our future viability is dependent on our ability to execute these plans successfully. We plan to use our available funding, together with cash provided by our operations, to finance our current business plan; however, if we cannot meet our capital needs using cash on hand and cash from operations, in addition to the actions described in further detail below, we will have to take actions such as modifying our business plan to reduce capital investments, pursuing additional external liquidity generating events, and seeking additional financing to the extent available, and further delaying non-essential capital expenditures. Our current business plan assumes that our operating cash in-flows will improve in the second half of 2014 as a result of changes to our merchandising strategy which focuses on the allocation of product assortment and better managing inventory levels to sales trends. We do not anticipate opening any new stores in fiscal 2014, so if our future comparable store sales continue to decline or do not improve consistent with our forecasts and/or our direct business does not improve from the prior year, our cash flows could be materially adversely affected. The success of these initiatives is largely dependent on a variety of factors, one of which is fashion trends. It is critical for us to gauge the fashion tastes of our customers and to provide merchandise that satisfies customer demand. Our failure to anticipate, identify, or react to changes in customer taste and demand could adversely affect the results of operations, including our ability to generate positive cash flows from operations, and consequently, our ability to fund operations, to obtain additional financing, and to repay our financing obligations. In addition to our sales and inventory planning and management initiatives, we have taken several other actions to increase our liquidity which we believe should be adequate to finance our working capital needs through 2014, if we are successful in executing our business plan. Actions have included cost reductions such as closing underperforming stores, headcount reductions, and delaying non-essential capital projects until such time as we are able to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to fund these capital expenditures. Subsequent to the fiscal year ended December 28, 2013, our actions have included the following:•We closed twelve underperforming stores between December 29, 2013 and March 17, 2014, and we intend to close another five stores during the remainder of fiscal year 2014. 12Table of Contents•We filed a refund request for Federal income taxes paid in 2013 and filed amended returns to carryback net operating losses and recovered a portion of taxes paid in 2012 and 2011. Total income tax refunds received as of March 17, 2014 were $13.9 million.•On February 6, 2014, we entered into a new asset based credit facility agreement (the "Credit Facility Agreement") with Crystal Financial LLC, as administrative and collateral agent which provides for a $17.0 million senior secured credit facility, which includes a term loan facility of $12.0 million drawn on the closing date, drawn against eligible account receivables and inventory, and a revolving credit facility of up to $5.0 million, subject to borrowing base availability and other conditions, that was not drawn upon on the closing date. Additionally, the Credit Facility Agreement provides for an uncommitted term loan facility of up to $7.0 million. The Credit Facility Agreement will mature on February 6, 2017 and is secured by substantially all of our assets. The proceeds of the term loan facility were used to pay all amounts owed under and retire its prior $5.0 million credit facility, to pay certain related fees and expenses, to fund working capital and for other corporate purposes. The Credit Facility Agreement includes terms and conditions for cash dominion events which may be triggered by any of the following: (1) the occurrence and continuance of any event of default, (2) outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility, or (3) a failure by us to maintain unrestricted cash in an amount of at least $6.5 million for three consecutive business days or $3.5 million at any time. Refer to note 14 Subsequent Events for further disclosure regarding the new credit facility.The credit facility contains standard terms and conditions related to events of default, including a cross default to other indebtedness such as sale-leaseback and other lease financings, which are subject to specific thresholds and, in certain cases, cure periods. If an event of default occurs and is continuing under the Credit Facility Agreement, the lenders thereunder may, among other things, terminate their obligations to lend under the Credit Facility Agreement and require us to repay all amounts owed under the credit facilities. As of March 22, 2014, we had cash of $20.1 million including $12.0 million drawn against eligible account receivables and inventory in our borrowing base collateral.We are currently seeking additional financing under sale-leaseback arrangements for capital expenditures related to the new distribution center and corporate headquarters incurred during 2013 which will increase our working capital and potentially fund the completion of the new facility. Should we not obtain this financing, the project will continue to be postponed until such time that we generate positive cash flows from operations or can obtain other financing.Due to the inherent uncertainties in making estimates and assumptions in our forecast, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to execute on its strategic initiatives. Therefore, if our operations underperform to our forecasted results, our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows may be materially adversely impacted. There are additional factors which are not necessarily within our control such as competition, vendor or other payment demands, current national and regional economic conditions and weather which could negatively impact our forecast and have a material adverse effect on our cash flows. If we cannot meet our capital needs using cash on hand and cash from operations, we may have to take additional actions such as additional headcount reductions, modifying our business plan to close additional stores as lease terms end, seeking additional financing to the extent available, and further reducing and/or delaying capital expenditures. Incurring additional debt, however, will increase our capital requirements for debt service, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on terms and conditions satisfactory to us, or at all.We need significant working capital to fund our operations and capital expenditures.Payments under our store leases and the lease of our corporate headquarters and distribution center, as well as personnel costs, account for a significant portion of our operating expenses. If our performance does not generate sufficient cash flows from operations to fund our business plans, we may need to incur additional indebtedness or may need to seek additional equity or debt financing. If additional equity or debt financing is not available to us on satisfactory terms, or at all, our ability to run and potentially expand our business would be curtailed and we may need to delay the implementation of certain systems, further delay the opening of our new distribution center, or further delay the move to our new corporate headquarters. Also, we may not have enough cash on hand to fund any operating shortfalls, which could result in our inability to continue operations.Any borrowings under our line of credit and any future debt financing will require interest payments and need to be repaid or refinanced, and would create additional cash demands and financial risk for us. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our debt, we may need to refinance our debt, dispose of assets, or issue equity to obtain the necessary funds. We do not know if we would be able to take any of the actions on a timely basis, on terms satisfactory to us, 13Table of Contentsor at all. Any indebtedness we might incur in the future may contain covenants that restrict our ability to incur additional debt, invest in the long-term growth of our store base, or to otherwise impact the value of our common stock.Risks Related to Our BusinessOur success depends on our ability to anticipate, identify and respond quickly to changing fashion trends.Our core market, apparel and accessories for women in their late teens, twenties, and thirties, is subject to rapidly shifting fashion trends, customer tastes and demands. Accordingly, our success is heavily dependent on our ability to anticipate, identify and capitalize on the latest fashion trends and respond to rapidly changing customer demands, including merchandise, styles and materials that will appeal and be saleable to our customers. Our Planning and Allocation department and our merchandising team, are primarily responsible for performing this analysis and making product purchase decisions. Our failure to anticipate, identify or react swiftly to changes in styles, trends or desired image preferences, or to anticipate demand, is likely to lead to lower demand for our merchandise, which could cause, among other things, sales declines, excess inventories and a greater number of markdowns. If we do not accurately forecast fashion trends and sales levels, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected.Our business is sensitive to consumer spending and economic conditions.The United States apparel industry is subject to cyclical variations, recessions in the general economy and uncertainties regarding future economic prospects that affect consumer spending habits, all of which could negatively impact our business overall and specifically our sales, gross margins and profitability. Consumer purchases of apparel, accessories and particularly discretionary retail items, including our fashion merchandise, may be adversely affected by economic conditions such as employment levels, salary and wage levels, the availability of consumer credit, inflation, high interest rates, high tax rates, high fuel prices and consumer confidence with respect to current and future economic conditions. Consumer purchases may decline during recessionary periods or at other times when unemployment is higher or disposable income is lower. These risks may be exacerbated for retailers like us that focus significantly on selling discretionary fashion merchandise. Consumer willingness to make discretionary purchases may decline, may stall, or may be slow to increase due to national and regional economic conditions. Our financial performance is particularly susceptible to economic and other conditions in regions or states where we have a significant number of stores, such as Florida, Texas, Pennsylvania and Georgia. Future slowdowns or disruptions in the economy could adversely affect mall traffic and new mall and shopping center development and could materially and adversely affect us and our long-term growth plans. We operate in the highly competitive specialty retail apparel industry and the size and resources of some of our competitors may allow them to compete more effectively than we can.We face intense competition in the specialty retail apparel industry. We compete on the basis of a combination of factors, including price, breadth, quality and style of merchandise, as well as our brand image and ability to respond to fashion trends. While we believe that we compete primarily with specialty retailers, catalog retailers and Internet businesses that specialize in women's apparel and accessories, we also face competition from department stores and value retailers. We believe our primary competitors are specialty apparel retailers that offer their own private labels, such as Forever 21, Wet Seal, rue21 and Charlotte Russe. We also compete with a wide variety of large and small retailers for customers, vendors, suitable store locations and personnel. The competitive landscape we face, particularly among specialty retailers, is subject to rapid change as new competitors emerge and existing competitors change their offerings. We cannot be assured that we will be able to compete successfully and navigate the shifts in our market.Many of our competitors and potential competitors may be larger and have greater name recognition and access to greater financial, marketing and other resources. Therefore, these competitors may be able to adapt to changes in trends and customer desires more quickly, devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products, generate greater brand recognition or adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can. As a result, we may lose market share, which would reduce our sales and revenues and adversely affect our results of operations.Our inability to maintain or improve levels of comparable store sales or direct sales could negatively impact our profitability and financial operations.If our future comparable store sales continue to decline or do not improve consistent with our forecasts, our profitability could be negatively impacted. In addition, the comparable store sales results have fluctuated in the past and can be expected to fluctuate in the future. A variety of factors affect comparable store sales, including fashion trends, competition, current national and regional economic conditions, pricing, changes in our merchandise mix, inventory shrinkage, the success of our marketing programs, holiday timing and weather conditions. 14Table of ContentsWe have strategic initiatives which are centered on a more consistent and singular approach to branding, merchandise content and customer messaging, between our stores and direct business. If these strategies are not achieved, we could experience continued negative operating cash flows.Our ability to attract customers to our stores that are located in regional malls and other shopping centers and venues depends heavily on the success of the malls and centers in which our stores are located.Our stores are principally located in regional malls, with some in outlet, lifestyle and power centers. Net sales at our stores are derived, to a significant degree, from the volume of traffic in those malls and centers and the surrounding areas. Our stores benefit from the ability of adjacent tenants to generate consumer traffic near our stores and the continuing popularity of the regional malls and outlet, lifestyle and power centers as shopping destinations. Our sales volume and traffic may be adversely affected by, among other things, economic downturns nationally or regionally, high fuel prices, increased competition, unfavorable weather conditions, changes in consumer demographics, a decrease in popularity of malls generally or of particular malls in which our stores are located. A reduction in customer traffic as a result of these or any other factors, or our inability to obtain or maintain desirable store locations within malls, could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, store closings in malls, particularly stores that attract similar customers, or deteriorations in the financial condition of mall operators could limit their ability to finance our tenant improvements, which would have an adverse impact on our ability to open profitable stores.Our business largely depends on a strong brand image.We believe that our brand image and brand awareness has contributed significantly to the success of our business. We also believe that maintaining and enhancing our brand image particularly in new markets where we have limited brand recognition is important to maintaining and expanding our customer base. Maintaining and enhancing our brand image may require us to make substantial investments in areas such as merchandising, marketing, store operations, community relations, store graphics, catalog distribution and employee training. These investments may be substantial and may not ultimately be successful.We rely on word-of-mouth, foot traffic, catalogs, email and text message blasts to capture the interest of our customers and drive them to our stores and website. We do not use traditional advertising channels, such as newspapers, magazines, billboards, television and radio, which are used by some of our competitors. We expect to increase our use of social media, such as Facebook and Twitter, in the future. If our marketing efforts are not successful, there may be no immediately available alternative marketing channel for us to build or maintain brand awareness.Our ability to obtain merchandise quickly and at competitive prices could suffer as a result of any deterioration or change in our vendor relationships or their businesses.We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities. Instead, we purchase all of our merchandise from third-party vendors. Two of our vendors collectively accounted for approximately 19.1% of our purchases in fiscal year 2013. Our business and financial performance depend in large part on our ability to quickly evaluate merchandise for style and fit and also to test and purchase a wide array of desired merchandise from our vendors at competitive prices and in the quantities we require. We generally operate without long-term purchase contracts or other contractual guarantees. We typically have averaged up to 30 days to pay our merchandise vendors. However, our payment terms below this average subsequent to the fiscal year ended December 28, 2013. If payment terms deteriorate beyond that assumed in our 2014 forecast, and consequently our payment terms were to significantly change, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to fund operations. The benefits we currently experience from our vendor relationships could be adversely affected if a sufficient number of our vendors:•choose to stop providing merchandise samples to us or otherwise discontinue selling products to us;•raise the prices they charge to a level such that we are unable to sell merchandise at prices that make sense for us and our customers;•change pricing terms or adversely change the quality of the materials or craftsmanship utilized;•change payment terms, reduce credit limits and/or require payment in advance;•reduce our access to styles, brands and products by entering into broad exclusivity arrangements with our competitors or otherwise in the marketplace;•sell similar products to our competitors with similar or better pricing; or15Table of Contents•initiate or expand sales of apparel and accessories to retail customers directly through their own stores, catalogs or on the Internet and compete with us directly.Market and economic events that adversely impact our vendors could impair our ability to obtain merchandise in sufficient quantities and at competitive prices. For instance, the cost of cotton may increase. An increase could cause our vendors to increase their prices, which could impact the prices we charge and our results of operations. We historically have established good working relationships with many small-to-mid-size vendors that often have more limited resources, production capacities and operating histories. Many of these vendors rely on credit from third parties such as factoring companies. If the credit relationships of our vendors should change, we may be required to pay for merchandise from our vendors earlier than our historical practice. As we grow and need greater amounts of inventory, we may need to develop new relationships with larger vendors as our current vendors may be unable to supply us with needed quantities. We may not be able to find similar products on the same terms from larger vendors. If we are unable to acquire suitable merchandise in sufficient quantities and at acceptable prices due to the loss of, or a deterioration or change in our relationship with, our vendors or events harmful to our vendors occur, it may adversely affect our business and results of operations.We are planning to replace several core information technology systems, which might disrupt our operations and cause us to incur significant unexpected expenses.We have begun to replace several significant systems relating to inventory management, allocations, customer relationship management, accounting and general ledger, warehouse management, and our web site functionality. When implementing new technology systems, even an off-the-shelf solution, there is always risk that the system does not function properly or that other challenges arise that we did not anticipate. The risks associated with these systems changes could disrupt and adversely impact the promptness and accuracy of our merchandise distribution, transaction processing, financial accounting and reporting, including the implementation of our internal controls over financial reporting. Any resulting disruptions could harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. A failure in our e-commerce operations could significantly disrupt our business and lead to reduced sales and reputational damage.Our direct business operations represent an important part of our business, accounting for approximately 10.2% of our net revenues in fiscal year 2013. Expanding our direct business is an important part of our growth strategy. In addition to changing consumer preferences and buying trends in e-commerce, we are vulnerable to certain additional risks and uncertainties associated with Internet sales, including changes to state or Federal sales and use tax legislation, changes in required technology interfaces, website downtime and other technical failures, security breaches and consumer privacy concerns. Our failure to successfully respond to these risks and uncertainties could reduce Internet sales and damage our brand's reputation.System security breaches could disrupt or damage our internal operations, information technology systems or reputation.Computer programmers and hackers, or even internal users, may be able to penetrate, create systems disruptions or cause shutdowns of our network security or that of third-party companies with which we have contracted to provide payment processing services. As a result, we could incur significant expenses addressing problems created by these breaches. This risk is heightened because we collect and store customer information for marketing purposes. Any compromise of customer information could subject us to customer or government litigation and harm our reputation, which could adversely affect our business and growth. Moreover, we could incur significant expenses or disruptions of our operations in connection with system disruptions or data breaches.Many states have adopted breach of data security statutes or regulations that require notification to consumers if the security of their personal information is breached. Governmental focus on data security may lead to additional legislative action, and the increased emphasis on information security may lead customers to request that we take additional measures to enhance security. As a result, we may have to modify our business with the goal of further improving data security, which would result in increased expenses and operating complexity. Lastly, our reputation may be damaged by any compromise of security, accidental loss or theft of customer data in our possession, which would negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations.To support our current long-term growth strategy, we will need to place increasing reliance on our information technology and distribution systems. Any failure, inadequacy or interruption of our systems could harm our ability to effectively operate our business.As our operations grow, greater demands will be placed on our information technology, distribution, sales order and inventory management systems. Our ability to effectively manage and maintain controls and procedures related to financial reporting, to manage and maintain our inventory and to ship products to our stores and our customers on a timely basis depends to a significant extent on our in-store systems, including our point-of-sale software and inventory management systems, as well 16Table of Contentsas our systems that enable our direct business through our catalog and website. To manage the growth of our operations, personnel and real estate portfolio, we will need to continually improve and expand our operational resources, including our operational and financial systems, transaction processing and internal controls and business processes. In doing so, we would expect to encounter transitional issues that could cause us to incur substantial additional expenses. The failure of our information systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems or expanding them into new stores or a breach in security of these systems, could adversely impact the promptness and accuracy of our merchandise distribution, transaction processing, financial accounting and reporting, the efficiency of our operations and our ability to properly forecast earnings and cash requirements. We cannot anticipate all the demands that will be placed on our systems and we could be required to make significant additional expenditures to remediate any failure to upgrade, problems or breaches of our information technology systems, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and business.Our current growth plans for future years will place a strain on our existing resources and could cause us to encounter challenges we have not faced before.As our number of stores and our direct sales grow, our operations will become more complex. While we have grown substantially as a company since inception, this growth has been over a period of decades. As we move forward, we expect our growth to bring new challenges that we have not faced before. Among other strains, this growth may make it more difficult for us to adequately predict expenditures, such as real estate and construction expenses, budgeting will become more complex, and we also may place increased burdens on our vendors, as we will likely increase the size of our merchandise orders. As a result, if new order delivery times lengthen, we could see more fashions arrive after trends have passed, resulting in excess inventory and greater markdowns.In addition, our recent growth has placed increased demands on our existing operational, managerial, administrative and other resources. Specifically, our inventory management systems and personnel processes are being upgraded to keep pace with our current and long-term growth strategy. We cannot anticipate all of the demands that our expanding operations will impose on our business, and our failure to appropriately address these demands could have a material adverse effect on our business.We depend on key personnel and may not be able to retain or replace these individuals or recruit additional personnel, which could harm our business.During fiscal year 2013, we made changes and additions to our executive team whose experience and strengths we believe are key to improving the financial performance of the Company. The loss of any of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, as we may not be able to find suitable individuals to replace them on a timely basis.As our business expands, our future success will depend greatly on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. Attracting and retaining experienced and successful personnel in the retail industry is competitive. If we are not able to retain key members of senior management, our long-term growth strategy and business generally could be impaired.Our business will suffer and our growth strategy may not be successful if we are unable to find and retain store employees that reflect our brand image and embody our culture.Like most retailers, we experience significant employee turnover rates, particularly among store employees. Our success depends in part upon our ability to continually attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of store employees who understand and can represent and appreciate our brand and customers. We compete for qualified personnel with a variety of companies looking to hire for retail positions. If we are unable to attract, train, assimilate or retain employees in the future, we may not be able to service our customers effectively, thus reducing our ability to operate our existing stores as profitably as we have in the past.We are subject to risks associated with leasing substantial amounts of space, including future increases in occupancy costs.We do not own any real estate. Instead, we lease all of our store locations, as well as our corporate headquarters and distribution facility in Jacksonville, Florida. Although our leases range from month-to-month to approximately ten years, we typically occupy our stores under operating leases with terms of six to ten years. Most of our leases have early termination provisions if we do not achieve specified sales targets after an initial term, which is typically four years. We believe that we have been able to negotiate favorable rental rates over the last few years due in part to the state of the economy and higher than usual vacancy rates in a number of regional malls. These trends may not continue and there is no guarantee that we will be able to continue to negotiate such favorable terms. In addition to future minimum lease payments, most of our leases provide for additional rental payments based upon our achieving specified net sales, and many provide for additional payments associated with common area maintenance, real estate taxes and insurance. Further, many of our lease agreements have escalating rent provisions over the initial term. Our substantial occupancy costs could have significant negative consequences, which include:17Table of Contents•requiring that a substantial portion of our available cash be applied to pay our rental obligations, thus reducing cash available for other purposes;•increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and•limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, our business or in the industry in which we compete.We depend on cash flow from operations to pay our lease expenses and to fulfill our other cash needs. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities to fund these expenses and needs and sufficient funds are not otherwise available to us, we may not be able to service our lease expenses, grow our business, respond to competitive challenges or fund our other liquidity and capital needs, which would harm our business. If an existing or future store is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may nonetheless be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying rent for the balance of the lease term. In addition, if we are not able to enter into new leases or renew existing leases on terms acceptable to us, this could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.We have one active facility which is both our corporate headquarters and distribution facility. If we encounter difficulties associated with this facility, we could face inventory shortages that would have a material adverse effect on our business operations.Both our corporate headquarters and our only distribution facility are located in the same facility in Jacksonville, Florida. Our distribution facility supports both our retail stores and our direct business. All of our merchandise is shipped from our merchandise consolidators to the distribution facility and then packaged and shipped from our distribution facility to our stores and our direct customers. Our stores and our direct customers must receive merchandise in a timely manner in order to stay current with the fashion preferences of our customers.In January 2013, we signed a lease to occupy a larger, more modern distribution facility. The facility will provide greater functionality to support enhanced inventory management capabilities and sales growth. We intend to transition to the new distribution center and corporate headquarters over the next 24 months, or at such time as we are able to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or obtain additional equity or debt financing on satisfactory terms. While we believe the size and scale of our distribution center is sufficient to service our growth plans for the foreseeable future, the efficient flow of our merchandise requires that we have adequate capacity in our distribution facility to support our current level of operations and our long-term growth plans. Our planned transition to the new distribution center is a complex transition involving the installation and implementation of complex systems and equipment. We cannot be assured such transition will occur without unanticipated complications. If we encounter such difficulties associated with our new distribution facility or if it were to shut down for any reason, including by fire or other natural disaster, we could face inventory shortages resulting in "out-of-stock" conditions in our stores, and delays in shipments to our direct customers, resulting in significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing our merchandise.Hurricanes or other unanticipated catastrophes that result in a disruption of our operations could negatively impact our business.A substantial number of our stores are located in the southeastern U.S. which is prone to severe weather conditions. For example, hurricanes have passed through Florida and other states along the Gulf Coast causing extensive damage to the region. Such a catastrophe could have an adverse impact on our operations, whether it was to occur at our distribution center or in an area where our retail locations are more densely located. In addition, to the extent that the predictions of some climate change models prove accurate, there may be significant national and regional physical effects from climate change such as increases in storm intensity and frequency, including hurricanes. An increase in adverse weather conditions impacting the southeastern U.S. generally could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In fact, all of our locations expose us to diverse risks, given that natural disasters or other unanticipated catastrophes, such as telecommunications failures, cyber-attacks, fires or terrorist attacks, can occur anywhere and could cause disruptions in our operations. Extensive or multiple disruptions in our operations, whether at our stores or our corporate headquarters and distribution center, due to natural disasters or other unanticipated catastrophes could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.In 2012, we implemented a disaster recovery plan that included the relocation of our data center to a third-party site. While we have taken steps to mitigate the risk related to unanticipated catastrophes, we cannot be assured that these actions have adequately limited our exposure to business interruptions.Our net revenues and merchandise fluctuate on a seasonal basis, leaving our operating results particularly susceptible to changes in seasonal shopping patterns, weather and related risks.Due to the seasonal nature of the retail industry, we have historically experienced and expect to continue to experience some fluctuations in our net revenues and net income period over period. As such, quarterly net revenues cannot be used as an 18Table of Contentsaccurate indicator of annual results. In addition, net revenues in a period can fluctuate due to shifts in the timing of the holidays. For instance, the Easter holiday will occur during different fiscal quarters from year to year. If for any reason our net revenues were below seasonal norms or expectations during these quarters, our annual results of operations could be adversely affected. In order to prepare for these fluctuations, we must order and keep in stock more merchandise than we carry at other times during the year. This inventory build-up may require us to expend cash faster than is generated by our operations during such periods.Our net revenues also fluctuate based on weather patterns. Any unanticipated decrease in demand for our products during these peak shopping periods could require us to sell excess inventory at a substantial markdown, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, profitability and brand image. In addition, we may experience variability in net revenues as a result of a variety of other factors, including the timing of new store openings and catalog mailings, store events, other marketing activities, sales tax holidays and the back-to-school selling season and other holidays, which may cause our results of operations to fluctuate on a quarterly basis and relative to corresponding periods in prior years.Increases in costs of catalog mailing, paper and printing will affect the cost of our direct business, which will reduce our profitability.Postal rate increases and paper and printing costs increase our catalog distribution costs and affect the financial results of our direct business. We rely on discounts from the basic postal rate structure, such as discounts for bulk mailings and sorting by zip code and carrier routes. We are not a party to any long-term contracts for the supply of paper. Our cost of paper has fluctuated significantly, and our future paper costs are subject to supply and demand forces that we cannot control. Future additional increases in postal rates or in paper or printing costs could reduce our profitability to the extent that we are unable to pass those increases directly to customers or offset those increases by raising selling prices.We may suffer risks if our vendors fail to comply with applicable laws, including a failure to use acceptable labor practices, or if our vendors suffer disruptions in their businesses.Our vendors source the merchandise sold in our stores from manufacturers both inside and outside of the U.S. Although each of our purchase orders is subject to our vendor manual and requires adherence to accepted labor practices and compliance with labor, immigration, manufacturing safety and other laws, we do not supervise, control or audit our vendors or the manufacturers that produce the merchandise we sell. The violation of any labor, immigration, manufacturing safety or other laws by any of our vendors or their U.S. and non-U.S. manufacturers, such as use of child labor, could damage our brand image or subject us to boycotts by our customers or activist groups.Any event causing a sudden disruption of manufacturing or imports, including the imposition of additional import restrictions, could interrupt, or otherwise disrupt, the shipment of finished products to us by our vendors and materially harm our operations. Political and financial instability outside the U.S., strikes, adverse weather conditions or natural disasters that may occur or acts of war or terrorism in the U.S. or worldwide, may affect the production, shipment or receipt of merchandise. These factors, which are beyond our control, could materially hurt our business, financial condition and results of operations or may require us to modify our current business practices or incur increased costs.Changes in laws, including employment laws and laws related to our merchandise, could make conducting our business more expensive or otherwise cause us to change the way we do business.We are subject to numerous regulations, including labor and employment, truth-in-advertising, consumer protection and ordinances that regulate retailers generally or govern the promotion and sale of merchandise and the operation of stores and warehouse facilities. If these regulations were to change or were violated by our management, employees or vendors, the costs of certain goods could increase, or we could experience delays in shipments of our goods, be subject to fines or penalties or suffer reputational harm, which could reduce demand for our merchandise and hurt our business and results of operations.In addition to increased regulatory compliance requirements, changes in laws could make the ordinary conduct of our business more expensive or require us to change the way we do business. Laws related to employee benefits and treatment of employees, including laws related to limitations on employee hours, immigration laws, child labor laws, minimum wage laws, supervisory status, leaves of absence, mandated health benefits (such as those required under the Affordable Care Act) or overtime pay, could also negatively impact us, such as by increasing compensation and benefits costs for overtime and medical expenses. Moreover, changes in product safety or other consumer protection laws could lead to increased costs to us for some merchandise, or additional labor costs associated with readying merchandise for sale. It is often difficult for us to plan and prepare for potential changes to applicable laws, and future actions or payments related to these changes could be material to us.There are claims made against us from time to time that can result in litigation that could distract management from our business activities and result in significant liability or damage to our brand.19Table of ContentsAs a growing company with expanding operations, we increasingly face the risk of litigation and other claims against us. Litigation and other claims may arise in the ordinary course of our business and include employee claims, commercial disputes, intellectual property issues, product-oriented allegations and slip and fall claims. These claims can raise complex factual and legal issues that are subject to risks and uncertainties and could require significant management time. Litigation and other claims against us could result in unexpected expenses and liabilities, which could materially adversely affect our operations and our reputation.We may be unable to protect our trademarks or other intellectual property rights.We believe that our trademarks are integral to our store design, our direct business and our success in building brand image and loyalty. We have registered those trademarks that we believe are important to our business with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. We cannot be assured that these registrations will prevent imitation of our name, merchandising concept, store design or private label merchandise or the infringement of our other intellectual property rights by others. In most cases, the apparel and accessories we sell are purchased on a non-exclusive basis from vendors that also sell to our competitors. Our competitors may seek to replicate aspects of our business strategy and in-store experience, thereby diluting our experience and adversely affecting our brand and competitive position. Imitation of our name, concept, store design or merchandise in a manner that projects lesser quality or carries a negative connotation of our brand image could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.In some regions of the U.S., our stores are located in the same malls and shopping centers as stores operated by a company doing business under the name The Body Shop®, which operates cosmetics and beauty stores. While we are not affiliated with this company, in 1991, we granted this company a license to use our Body Shop trademark which is held by us in connection with retail store services for the sale of women's apparel and apparel accessories. This license was non-exclusive as to certain uses and our agreements with this company permit us to continue to use our "Body Shop" mark in our stores located in Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee and Texas. While we currently operate under the Body Central banner, we operate under the Body Shop banner in 5 stores in Florida and Georgia. The use by the cosmetic and beauty store of the Body Shop trademark may create confusion between our business and their business and this could affect our brand.We are not aware of any claims of infringement upon or challenges to our right to use any of our brand names or trademarks in the U.S. Nevertheless, we cannot be certain that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks or proprietary rights of others. Although we cannot currently estimate the likelihood of success of any such lawsuit or ultimate resolution of such a conflict, such a controversy could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If disputes arise in the future, we may not be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction.Because we have not registered our trademarks in any foreign countries, international protection of our brand image and the use of these marks could be limited. For instance, we are aware of a company outside the U.S. that has used our brand name and has a similar logo, image and website for its business. Also, other entities may have rights to trademarks that contain portions of our marks or may have registered similar or competing marks for apparel or accessories in foreign countries in which our vendors source our merchandise. Our inability to register our trademarks or purchase or license the right to use our trademarks or logos in these jurisdictions could limit our ability to obtain supplies from less costly markets or penetrate new markets should our business plan change to include selling our merchandise in those foreign jurisdictions.We may be subject to liability if we or our vendors infringe upon the trademarks or other intellectual property rights of third parties, including the risk that we could acquire merchandise from our vendors without the full right to sell it.While we do not manufacture and produce apparel and accessories, we may be subject to liability if our vendors infringe upon the trademarks or other intellectual property rights of third parties. We do not independently investigate whether our vendors legally hold intellectual property rights to the merchandise they manufacture and distribute. Third parties may bring legal claims, or threaten to bring legal claims, against us that their intellectual property rights are being infringed or violated by our use of intellectual property. Litigation or threatened litigation could be costly and distract our senior management from operating our business. If we were to be found liable for any such infringement, we could be required to pay substantial damages and could be subject to injunctions preventing further infringement. In addition, any payments we are required to make and any injunctions with which we are required to comply as a result of infringement claims could be costly and thereby adversely affect our financial results.If a third party claims to have licensing rights with respect to merchandise we purchased from a vendor, or if we acquire unlicensed merchandise, we may be obligated to remove this merchandise from our stores, incur costs associated with this removal if the distributor or vendor is unwilling or unable to reimburse us and be subject to liability under various civil and 20Table of Contentscriminal causes of action, including actions to recover unpaid royalties and other damages and injunctions. Additionally, we will be required to purchase new merchandise to replace any we remove.We rely upon independent third-party transportation providers for substantially all of our merchandise shipments.We currently rely upon independent third-party transportation providers for substantially all of our merchandise shipments, including shipments to all of our stores and our direct customers. Our use of outside delivery services for shipments is subject to risks, including increases in fuel prices, which would increase our shipping costs, and employee strikes and inclement weather, which may impact a shipper's ability to provide delivery services that adequately meet our shipping needs. If we change shipping companies, we could face logistical difficulties that could adversely impact deliveries and we would incur costs and expend resources in connection with such change. Moreover, we may not be able to obtain terms as favorable as those received from the independent third-party transportation providers we currently use, which would increase our costs.Our ability to source our merchandise profitably could be hurt if new trade restrictions are imposed or existing trade restrictions become more burdensome.We currently purchase our entire inventory from domestic, third-party vendors, who source our merchandise both domestically and internationally. These vendors, to the extent they obtain apparel and accessories from outside of the U.S., are subject to trade restrictions, including increased tariffs, safeguards or quotas, which could increase the cost or reduce the supply of merchandise available to us. Under the World Trade Organization Agreement, effective January 1, 2005, the U.S. and other World Trade Organization member countries removed quotas on goods from World Trade Organization members, which in certain instances we believe affords our vendors greater flexibility in importing textile and apparel products from World Trade Organization countries from which they source our merchandise. However, as the removal of quotas resulted in an import surge from China, the U.S. imposed safeguard quotas on a number of categories of goods and apparel from China and may impose additional quotas in the future. These and other trade restrictions could have a significant impact on our vendor's sourcing patterns in the future. The extent of this impact, if any, and the possible effect on our purchasing patterns and costs, cannot be determined at this time. We cannot predict whether any of the countries in which our vendors' merchandise is currently manufactured or may be manufactured in the future will be subject to additional trade restrictions imposed by the U.S. and foreign governments, nor can we predict the likelihood, type or effect of any restrictions. Trade restrictions, including increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes, safeguards and customs restrictions against apparel items, as well as U.S. or foreign labor strikes, work stoppages or boycotts, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of apparel to our vendors, and we would expect the costs to be passed along in increased prices to us, which could hurt our profitability.We may be subjected to sales and use tax in states where we operate our direct business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Under current state and federal laws, we are not required to collect and remit sales tax in states where we sell through our Internet or catalog channels. Legislation is pending in some states that may require us to collect and remit sales tax on direct sales or institute use tax reporting. If states pass sales or use tax laws, we may need to collect and remit current and past sales tax and could face greater exposure to income tax and franchise taxes in these states. Any increase in sales tax or use tax reporting on our Internet sales could discourage customers from purchasing through our catalog or Internet channels, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.Increases in the minimum wage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.From time to time, legislative proposals are made to increase the minimum wage in the U.S., as well as a number of individual states. Wage rates for many of our employees are at or slightly above the minimum wage. As federal or state minimum wage rates increase, we may need to increase not only the wage rates of our minimum wage employees, but also the wages paid to our other hourly employees as well. Any increase in the cost of our labor could have a material adverse effect on our operating costs, financial condition and results of operations.Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common StockAnti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law might discourage or delay acquisition attempts for us that might be considered favorable.Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our Board of Directors. These provisions, among other things:•establish a classified Board of Directors so that not all members of our Board of Directors are elected at one time;21Table of Contents•authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and the shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval, and which may include super-majority voting, special approval, dividend or other rights or preferences superior to the rights of the holders of common stock;•prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders;•provide that our Board of Directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws; and•establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings.These anti-takeover provisions and other provisions under Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change-in-control, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors of their choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions.If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrades our common stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our common stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.