Item 1A. Risk Factors Limited partner interests are inherently different from capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in similar businesses. You should consider carefully the following risk factors together with all of the other information included in this report. If any of the following risks were actually to occur, then our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business We may not have sufficient cash from operations following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including cost reimbursements to our general partner, to enable us to make cash distributions to holders of our common units and subordinated units at the initial distribution rate under our cash distribution policy. In order to make our cash distributions at our initial distribution rate of $0.3375 per common unit and subordinated unit per complete quarter, or $1.35 per unit per year, we will require available cash of approximately $10.6 million per quarter, or $42.5 million per year, based on common units and subordinated units outstanding at March 30, 2007. We may not have sufficient available cash from operating surplus each quarter to enable us to make cash distributions at the initial distribution rate under our cash distribution policy. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: • the fees we charge and the margins we realize for our services; • the prices of, levels of production of, and demand for, natural gas and NGL’s • the volume of natural gas we gather, treat, compress, process, transport and sell, and the volume of NGLs we process or fractionate and sell; • the relationship between natural gas and NGL prices; • cash settlements of hedging positions; • the level of competition from other midstream energy companies; 20 Table of Contents • the level of our operating and maintenance and general and administrative costs; and • prevailing economic conditions. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • the level of capital expenditures we make; • our ability to make borrowings under our credit facility to pay distributions; • the cost of acquisitions; • our debt service requirements and other liabilities; • fluctuations in our working capital needs; • general and administrative expenses, including expenses we will incur as a result of being a public company; • restrictions on distributions contained in our debt agreements; and • the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner for the proper conduct of our business. Our cash flow is affected by natural gas and NGL prices, and decreases in these prices could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to holders of our common units and subordinated units. Our operations can be affected by the level of natural gas and NGL prices and the relationship between these prices. The prices of natural gas and NGLs have been volatile and we expect this volatility to continue. Our future cash flow will be materially adversely affected if we experience significant, prolonged pricing deterioration below general price levels experienced over the past few years in our industry. The markets and prices for natural gas and NGLs depend upon factors beyond our control. These factors include demand for these commodities, which fluctuate with changes in market and economic conditions and other factors, including: • the impact of seasonality and weather; • general economic conditions; • the level of domestic crude oil and natural gas production and consumption; • the availability of imported natural gas, liquified natural gas, NGLs and crude oil; • actions taken by foreign oil and gas producing nations; • the availability of local, intrastate and interstate transportation systems; • the availability and marketing of competitive fuels; • the impact of energy conservation efforts; and • the extent of governmental regulation and taxation. Our primary natural gas gathering and processing arrangements that expose us to commodity price risk are our percent-of-proceeds arrangements. For the year ended December 31, 2006, our percent-of-proceeds arrangements accounted for approximately 96% of our gathered natural gas volume. Under percent-of-proceeds arrangements, we generally process natural gas from producers for an agreed percentage of the proceeds from the sale of residue gas and NGLs resulting from our processing activities, selling the resulting residue gas and NGLs at market prices. Under these types of arrangements, our revenues and our cash flows increase or decrease, whichever is applicable, as the price of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil fluctuates. For additional 21 Table of Contents information regarding our hedging activities, please see Item 7A. — Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk — Commodity Price Risk. Because of the natural decline in production from existing wells in our operating regions, our success depends on our ability to obtain new sources of supplies of natural gas, which depends on certain factors beyond our control. Any decrease in supplies of natural gas could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our gathering systems are connected to natural gas wells, from which the production will naturally decline over time, which means that our cash flows associated with these wells will also decline over time. To maintain or increase throughput levels on our gathering systems and the utilization rate at our processing plants and our treating and fractionation facilities, we must continually obtain new natural gas supplies. Our ability to obtain additional sources of natural gas depends in part on the level of successful drilling activity near our gathering systems. We have no control over the level of drilling activity in the areas of our operations, the amount of reserves associated with the wells or the rate at which production from a well will decline. In addition, we have no control over producers or their drilling or production decisions, which are affected by, among other things, prevailing and projected energy prices, demand for hydrocarbons, the level of reserves, geological considerations, governmental regulations, availability of drilling rigs and other production and development costs and the availability and cost of capital. We believe that rig availability in the Fort Worth Basin has been and will continue to be a limiting factor on the number of wells drilled in that area. Fluctuations in energy prices can greatly affect production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new oil and natural gas reserves. Drilling activity generally decreases as oil and natural gas prices decrease. Natural gas prices reached relatively high levels in 2005 and early 2006 but declined substantially through 2006, with NYMEX Henry Hub gas futures contracts closing at $5.84 in December 2006 compared to $11.43 in December 2005. These recent declines in natural gas prices are beginning to have a negative impact on exploration, development and production activity, and if sustained, could lead to a material decrease in such activity. Reductions in exploration or production activity or shut-ins by producers in the areas in which we operate as a result of a sustained decline in natural gas prices would lead to reduced utilization of our gathering and processing assets. Because of these factors, even if new natural gas reserves are discovered in areas served by our assets, producers may choose not to develop those reserves. If, due to reductions in drilling activity or competition, we are not able to obtain new supplies of natural gas to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing wells, throughput on our pipelines and the utilization rates of our treating, processing and fractionation facilities would decline, which could reduce our revenue and impair our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Our hedging activities may not be effective in reducing the variability of our cash flows and may, in certain circumstances, increase the variability of our cash flows. In addition, the significant contribution to our results of operations that we are currently receiving from our hedge positions will decrease substantially through 2010. We have entered into derivative transactions related to only a portion of our equity volumes. As a result, we will continue to have direct commodity price risk on the unhedged portion. Our actual future volumes may be significantly higher or lower than we estimated at the time we entered into the derivative transactions for that period. If the actual amount is higher than we estimate, we will have greater commodity price risk than we intended. If the actual amount is lower than the amount that is subject to our derivative financial instruments, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our derivative transactions without the benefit of the cash flow from our sale of the underlying physical commodity, resulting in a reduction of our liquidity. The derivative instruments we utilize for these hedges are based on posted market prices, which may be lower than the actual natural gas, NGL and condensate prices that we realize in our operations. As a result of these factors, our hedging activities may not be as effective as we intend in reducing the variability of our cash flows, and in certain circumstances may actually increase the variability of our cash flows. To the extent we 22 Table of Contents hedge our commodity price risk; we may forego the benefits we would otherwise experience if commodity prices were to change in our favor. Our results of operations are currently realizing a significant benefit from hedge positions entered into in 2006. As of March 26, 2007, we estimate that these hedges will generate approximately $17 million in operating income for the year ending December 31, 2007. If future prices remain comparable to current prices, we expect that this benefit will decline materially over the life of the hedges, which cover decreasing volumes at declining prices through 2010. For additional information regarding our hedging activities, please see Item 7A. — Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. We depend on one natural gas producer for a significant portion of our supply of natural gas. The loss of this customer or replacement of its contracts on less favorable terms could result in a decline in our volumes, revenues and cash available for distribution. Our largest natural gas supplier for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 was ConocoPhillips, who accounted for approximately 33% and 36%, respectively, of our supply. The loss of all or even a portion of the natural gas volumes supplied by this customer or the extension or replacement of these contracts on less favorable terms, if at all, as a result of competition or otherwise, could reduce our revenue or increase our cost for product purchases, impairing our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. If third-party pipelines and other facilities interconnected to our natural gas pipelines and facilities become partially or fully unavailable to transport natural gas and NGLs, our revenues and cash available for distribution could be adversely affected. We depend upon third party pipelines and other facilities that provide delivery options to and from our pipelines and facilities. Since we do not own or operate these pipelines or other facilities, their continuing operation is not within our control. If any of these third-party pipelines and other facilities become partially or fully unavailable to transport natural gas and NGLs, our revenues and cash available for distribution could be adversely affected. We depend on our Chico system for a substantial majority of our revenues and if those revenues were reduced, there would be a material adverse effect on our results of operations and ability to make distributions to unitholders. Any significant curtailment of gathering, compressing, treating, processing or fractionation of natural gas on our Chico system could result in our realizing materially lower levels of revenues and cash flow for the duration of such curtailment. For the year ended December 31, 2006, our Chico plant inlet volume accounted for over 90% of our revenues. Operations at our Chico system could be partially curtailed or completely shut down, temporarily or permanently, as a result of: • competition from other systems that may be able to meet producer needs or supply end-user markets on a more cost-effective basis; • operational problems such as catastrophic events at the Chico processing plant or gathering lines, labor difficulties or environmental proceedings or other litigation that compel cessation of all or a portion of the operations on our Chico system; • an inability to obtain sufficient quantities of natural gas for the Chico system at competitive terms; or • reductions in exploration or production activity, or shut-ins by producers in the areas in which we operate. The magnitude of the effect on us of any curtailment of operations will depend on the length of the curtailment and the extent of the operations affected by such curtailment. We have no control over many of the factors that may lead to a curtailment of operations. 23 Table of Contents In addition, our business interruption insurance is subject to limitations and deductibles. If a significant accident or event occurs at our Chico system that is not fully insured, it could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. We are exposed to the credit risk of Targa and any material nonperformance by Targa could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. In 2007, we entered into purchase agreements with Targa pursuant to which Targa will purchase all of our natural gas, NGLs and high-pressure condensate for a term of 15 years. We also entered into an omnibus agreement with Targa which addresses, among other things, the provision of general and administrative and operating services to us. As of January 31, 2007, Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s assigned Targa corporate credit ratings of B1 and B+, respectively, which are speculative ratings. These speculative ratings signify a higher risk that Targa will default on its obligations, including its obligations to us, than does an investment grade credit rating. Any material nonperformance under the omnibus and purchase agreements by Targa could materially and adversely impact our ability to operate and make distributions to our unitholders. Our industry is highly competitive, and increased competitive pressure could adversely affect our business and operating results. We compete with similar enterprises in our respective areas of operation. Some of our competitors are large oil, natural gas and petrochemical companies that have greater financial resources and access to supplies of natural gas and NGLs than we do. Some of these competitors may expand or construct gathering, processing and transportation systems that would create additional competition for the services we provide to our customers. In addition, our customers who are significant producers of natural gas may develop their own gathering, processing and transportation systems in lieu of using ours. Our ability to renew or replace existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of our competitors and our customers. All of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to you. Our business involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. Our operations are subject to many hazards inherent in the gathering, compressing, treating, processing and transporting of natural gas and NGLs, including: • damage to pipelines and plants, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, fires and other natural disasters, explosions and acts of terrorism; • inadvertent damage from third parties, including from construction, farm and utility equipment; • leaks of natural gas, NGLs and other hydrocarbons or losses of natural gas or NGLs as a result of the malfunction of equipment or facilities; and • other hazards that could also result in personal injury and loss of life, pollution and suspension of operations. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage and may result in curtailment or suspension of our related operations. A natural disaster or other hazard affecting the areas in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our insurance is provided under Targa’s insurance programs. We are not fully insured against all risks inherent to our business. We are not insured against all environmental accidents that might occur which may include toxic tort claims, other than those considered to be sudden and accidental. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, it could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. In addition, Targa may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. Moreover, significant claims by 24 Table of Contents Targa may limit or eliminate the amount of insurance proceeds available to us. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies have increased substantially, and could escalate further. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. Our debt levels may limit our flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities. As of March 26, 2007, we had approximately $294.5 million of borrowings outstanding under our credit facility. Our level of debt could have important consequences for us, including the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; • we need a portion of our cash flow to make interest payments on our debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders; • our debt level makes us more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and • our debt level may limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. Our ability to service our debt depends upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which is affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt, or seeking additional equity capital. We may not be able to effect any of these actions on satisfactory terms, or at all. Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our business. In addition to our exposure to commodity prices, we have significant exposure to increases in interest rates. As of March 26, 2007, we had approximately $294.5 million of debt outstanding under our credit facility at variable interest rates. An increase of 1 percentage point in the interest rates will result in an increase in annual interest expense of $2.9 million. As a result, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by significant increases in interest rates. Restrictions in our credit facility may interrupt distributions to us from our subsidiaries, which may limit our ability to make distributions to you, satisfy our obligations and capitalize on business opportunities. Our credit facility contains covenants limiting our ability to make distributions, incur indebtedness, grant liens, and engage in transactions with affiliates. Furthermore, our credit facility contains covenants requiring us to maintain a ratio of consolidated indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA initially of not more than 5.75 to 1.00 and a ratio of consolidated EBITDA to consolidated interest expense of not less than 2.25 to 1.00. If we fail to meet these tests or otherwise breach the terms of our credit facility our operating subsidiary will be prohibited from making any distribution to us and, ultimately, to you. Any interruption of distributions to us from our subsidiaries may limit our ability to satisfy our obligations and to make distributions to you. We may incur significant costs and liabilities in the future resulting from a failure to comply with new or existing environmental regulations or an accidental release of hazardous substances or hydrocarbons into the environment. Our operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These include, for example, (1) the federal Clean Air Act and comparable state laws and 25 Table of Contents regulations that impose obligations related to air emissions, (2) the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, or RCRA, and comparable state laws that impose requirements for the handling, storage, treatment or discharge of waste from our facilities and (3) the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, or CERCLA, also known as “Superfund,” and comparable state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or locations to which we have sent waste for disposal. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations or newly adopted laws or regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements, and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations or imposing additional compliance requirements on such operations. Certain environmental regulations, including CERCLA and analogous state laws and regulations, impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where hazardous substances or hydrocarbons have been disposed or otherwise released. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances, hydrocarbons or other waste products into the environment. There is inherent risk of the incurrence of environmental costs and liabilities in our business due to our handling of natural gas and other petroleum products, air emissions related to our operations, and historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. For example, an accidental release from one of our facilities could subject us to substantial liabilities arising from environmental cleanup and restoration costs, claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury and property damage and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. Moreover, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase our operational or compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. In particular, we may incur expenditures in order to maintain compliance with legal requirements governing emissions of air pollutants from our facilities. We may not be able to recover these costs from insurance. We typically do not obtain independent evaluations of natural gas reserves dedicated to our gathering pipeline systems; therefore, volumes of natural gas on our systems in the future could be less than we anticipate. We typically do not obtain independent evaluations of natural gas reserves connected to our gathering systems due to the unwillingness of producers to provide reserve information as well as the cost of such evaluations. Accordingly, we do not have independent estimates of total reserves dedicated to our gathering systems or the anticipated life of such reserves. If the total reserves or estimated life of the reserves connected to our gathering systems is less than we anticipate and we are unable to secure additional sources of natural gas, then the volumes of natural gas on our gathering systems in the future could be less than we anticipate. A decline in the volumes of natural gas on our systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to you. A change in the jurisdictional characterization of some of our assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies may result in increased regulation of our assets, which may cause our revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase. Our natural gas gathering operations are generally exempt from FERC regulation under the Natural Gas Act of 1938, or NGA, but FERC regulation still affects these businesses and the markets for products derived from these businesses. FERC’s policies and practices across the range of its natural gas regulatory activities, including, for example, its policies on open access transportation, ratemaking, capacity release and market center promotion, indirectly affect intrastate markets. In recent years, FERC has pursued pro-competitive policies in its regulation of interstate natural gas pipelines. However, we cannot assure you that FERC will continue this approach as it considers matters such as pipeline rates and rules and policies that may affect rights of access to natural gas transportation capacity. In addition, the distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services has been the subject of regular litigation; 26 Table of Contents accordingly, the classification and regulation of some of our intrastate pipelines may be subject to change based on future determinations by FERC, the courts or Congress. State regulation of natural gas gathering facilities generally includes various safety, environmental and, in some circumstances, nondiscriminatory take requirements, and complaint-based rate regulation. Natural gas gathering may receive greater regulatory scrutiny at both the state and federal levels now that FERC has taken a more light-handed approach to regulation of the gathering activities of interstate pipeline transmission companies and as a number of such companies have transferred gathering facilities to unregulated affiliates. TRRC has adopted regulations that generally allow natural gas producers and shippers to file complaints with the TRRC in an effort to resolve grievances relating to intrastate pipeline access and rate discrimination. Our natural gas gathering operations could be adversely affected in the future should they become subject to the application of state or federal regulation of rates and services. Our gathering operations also may be or become subject to safety and operational regulations relating to the design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of gathering facilities. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to these matters are considered or adopted from time to time. We cannot predict what effect, if any, such changes might have on our operations, but the industry could be required to incur additional capital expenditures and increased costs depending on future legislative and regulatory changes. Other state and local regulations also may affect our business. Our costs may increase because our credit obligations under hedging and other contractual arrangements are not guaranteed by Targa. Prior to our IPO, Targa maintained credit support for our obligations related to derivative financial instruments, such as commodity price hedging contracts. Beginning on February 14, 2007, Targa no longer provides credit support for our obligations under derivative financial instruments and other commercial contracts governing our business or operations. Consequently, we are providing our own credit support arrangements for commercial contracts, which may increase our costs. For example, it could be more costly for us to manage our commodity price risk through certain types of financial hedging arrangements unless we are able to achieve creditworthiness similar to the current creditworthiness of Targa. All of our operations are based in the Fort Worth Basin and we are dependent on drilling activities and our ability to attract and maintain customers in such region. All of our operations are located in the Fort Worth Basin in north Texas. Due to our lack of diversification in industry type and location, an adverse development in the oil and gas production from this area would have a significantly greater impact on our financial condition and results of operations than if we maintained more diverse assets and operating areas. Under the terms of our gas sales agreement, Targa manages the sales of our natural gas and pays us the amount it realizes for gas sales less certain costs; however, unexpected volume changes due to production variability or to gathering, plant, or pipeline system disruptions may increase our exposure to commodity price movements. Targa sells our processed natural gas to third parties and other Targa affiliates at our plant tailgate or at interstate pipeline pooling points. Sales made to natural gas marketers and end-users may be interrupted by disruptions to volumes anywhere along the system. Targa attempts to balance sales with volumes supplied from our processing operations, but unexpected volume variations due to production variability or to gathering, plant, or pipeline system disruptions may expose us to volume imbalances which, in conjunction with movements in commodity prices, could materially impact our income from operations, and cash flow. 27 Table of Contents We may incur significant costs and liabilities resulting from pipeline integrity programs and related repairs. Pursuant to the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002, the DOT has adopted regulations requiring pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs for pipelines located where a leak or rupture could do the most harm in “high consequence areas.” The regulations require operators to: • perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity; • identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact a high consequence area; • improve data collection, integration and analysis; • repair and remediate the pipeline as necessary; and • implement preventive and mitigating actions. We currently estimate that we will incur an aggregate cost of approximately $1 million between 2007 and 2010 to implement pipeline integrity management program testing along certain segments of our natural gas and NGL pipelines. This does not include the costs, if any, of any repair, remediation, preventative or mitigating actions that may be determined to be necessary as a result of the testing program, which costs could be substantial. Our construction of new assets may not result in revenue increases and is subject to regulatory, environmental, political, legal and economic risks, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. One of the ways we intend to grow our business is through the construction of new midstream assets. The construction of additions or modifications to our existing systems, and the construction of new midstream assets, involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties beyond our control and may require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital. If we undertake these projects, they may not be completed on schedule or at the budgeted cost, or at all. Moreover, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. For instance, if we expand a new pipeline, the construction may occur over an extended period of time, and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until the project is completed. Moreover, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which such growth does not materialize. Since we are not engaged in the exploration for and development of natural gas and oil reserves, we do not possess reserve expertise and we often do not have access to third-party estimates of potential reserves in an area prior to constructing facilities in such area. To the extent we rely on estimates of future production in our decision to construct additions to our systems, such estimates may prove to be inaccurate because there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of future production. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough throughput to achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the construction of additions to our existing gathering and transportation assets may require us to obtain new rights-of-way prior to constructing new pipelines. We may be unable to obtain such rights-of-way to connect new natural gas supplies to our existing gathering lines or capitalize on other attractive expansion opportunities. Additionally, it may become more expensive for us to obtain new rights-of-way or to renew existing rights-of-way. If the cost of renewing or obtaining new rights-of-way increases, our cash flows could be adversely affected. If we do not make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, or efficiently and effectively integrate the acquired assets with our asset base, our future growth will be limited. Our ability to grow depends, in part, on our ability to make acquisitions that result in an increase in cash generated from operations per unit. If we are unable to make these accretive acquisitions either because we are (1) unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts with them, 28 Table of Contents (2) unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, or (3) outbid by competitors, then our future growth and ability to increase distributions will be limited. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: • mistaken assumptions about volumes, revenues and costs, including synergies; • an inability to integrate successfully the businesses we acquire; • the assumption of unknown liabilities; • limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; • mistaken assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt; • the diversion of management’s and employees’ attention from other business concerns; • unforeseen difficulties operating in new product areas or new geographic areas; and • customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses. If these risks materialize, the acquired assets may inhibit our growth or fail to deliver expected benefits. Our acquisition strategy is based, in part, on our expectation of ongoing divestitures of energy assets by industry participants. A material decrease in such divestitures would limit our opportunities for future acquisitions and could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. We do not own most of the land on which our pipelines and facilities are located, which could disrupt our operations. We do not own most of the land on which our pipelines and facilities are located, and we are therefore subject to the possibility of more onerous terms and/or increased costs to retain necessary land use if we do not have valid rights of way or leases or if such rights of way or leases lapse or terminate. We sometimes obtain the rights to land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. Our loss of these rights, through our inability to renew right-of-way contracts, leases or otherwise, could cause us to cease operations on the affected land, increase costs related to continuing operations elsewhere, reduce our revenue and impair our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We do not have any officers or employees and rely solely on officers of our general partner and employees of Targa. None of the officers of our general partner are employees of our general partner. In February 2007, we entered into an omnibus agreement with Targa, pursuant to which Targa operates our assets and performs other administrative services for us such as accounting, legal, regulatory, corporate development, finance, land and engineering. Affiliates of Targa conduct businesses and activities of their own in which we have no economic interest, including businesses and activities relating to Targa. As a result, there could be material competition for the time and effort of the officers and employees who provide services to our general partner and Targa. If the officers of our general partner and the employees of Targa do not devote sufficient attention to the management and operation of our business, our financial results may suffer and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders may be reduced. If our general partner fails to develop or maintain an effective system of internal controls, then we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential unitholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our common units. Targa Resources GP LLC, our general partner, has sole responsibility for conducting our business and for managing our operations. Effective internal controls are necessary for our general partner, on our behalf, to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and operate us successfully as a public company. If our general 29 Table of Contents partner’s efforts to develop and maintain its internal controls are not successful, it is unable to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or it is unable to assist us in complying with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our operating results could be harmed or we may fail to meet our reporting obligations. Ineffective internal controls also could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common units. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to holders of our common units and subordinated units depends primarily on our cash flow and not solely on profitability. Consequently, even if we are profitable, we may not be able to make cash distributions to holders of our common units and subordinated units. You should be aware that the amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses for financial accounting purposes and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net earnings for financial accounting purposes. Terrorist attacks, and the threat of terrorist attacks, have resulted in increased costs to our business. Continued hostilities in the Middle East or other sustained military campaigns may adversely impact our results of operations. The long-term impact of terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001, and the threat of future terrorist attacks on our industry in general, and on us in particular, is not known at this time. Increased security measures taken by us as a precaution against possible terrorist attacks have resulted in increased costs to our business. Uncertainty surrounding continued hostilities in the Middle East or other sustained military campaigns may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of crude oil supplies and markets for our products, and the possibility that infrastructure facilities could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror. Changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks may make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. Moreover, the insurance that may be available to us may be significantly more expensive than our existing insurance coverage. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war could also affect our ability to raise capital. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us Targa controls our general partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations. Targa has conflicts of interest with us and may favor its own interests to your detriment. Targa owns and controls our general partner. Some of our general partner’s directors, and some of its executive officers, are directors or officers of Targa. Therefore, conflicts of interest may arise between Targa, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: • neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires Targa to pursue a business strategy that favors us. Targa’s directors and officers have a fiduciary duty to make decisions in the best interests of the owners of Targa, which may be contrary to our interests; • our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as Targa, or its owners, including Warburg Pincus, in resolving conflicts of interest; and • Targa is not limited in its ability to compete with us and is under no obligation to offer assets to us. 30 Table of Contents The credit and business risk profile of our general partner and its owners could adversely affect our credit ratings and profile. The credit and business risk profiles of the general partner and its owners may be factors in credit evaluations of a master limited partnership. This is because the general partner can exercise significant influence over the business activities of the partnership, including its cash distribution and acquisition strategy and business risk profile. Another factor that may be considered is the financial condition of the general partner and its owners, including the degree of their financial leverage and their dependence on cash flow from the partnership to service their indebtedness. Targa, the owner of our general partner, has significant indebtedness outstanding and is partially dependent on the cash distributions from their indirect general partner and limited partner equity interests in us to service such indebtedness. Any distributions by us to such entities will be made only after satisfying our then current obligations to our creditors. Our credit ratings and business risk profile could be adversely affected if the ratings and risk profiles of the entities that control our general partner were viewed as substantially lower or more risky than ours. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s fiduciary duties to holders of our units and restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. The directors and officers of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to its owner, Targa. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty laws. For example, our partnership agreement: • permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any limited partner; • provides that our general partner does not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as it acted in good faith, meaning it believed the decision was in the best interests of our partnership; • generally provides that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner acting in good faith and not involving a vote of unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or must be “fair and reasonable” to us, as determined by our general partner in good faith and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” our general partner may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us; • provides that our general partner and its officers and directors are not liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that the general partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and • provides that in resolving conflicts of interest, it is presumed that in making its decision the general partner acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or us, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. 31 Table of Contents Targa is not limited in its ability to compete with us, which could limit our ability to acquire additional assets or businesses. Neither our partnership agreement nor the omnibus agreement between us and Targa prohibits Targa from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. In addition, Targa may acquire, construct or dispose of additional midstream or other assets in the future, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase or construct any of those assets. Targa is a large, established participant in the midstream energy business, and has significantly greater resources and experience than we have, which factors may make it more difficult for us to compete with Targa with respect to commercial activities as well as for acquisition candidates. As a result, competition from Targa could adversely impact our results of operations and cash available for distribution. Cost reimbursements due our general partner and its affiliates for services provided, which will be determined by our general partner, will be substantial and will reduce our cash available for distribution to you. Pursuant to the omnibus agreement we entered into with Targa and Targa Resources GP LLC, our general partner, Targa will receive reimbursement for the payment of operating expenses related to our operations and for the provision of various general and administrative services for our benefit. Payments for these services will be substantial and will reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders. In addition, under Delaware partnership law, our general partner has unlimited liability for our obligations, such as our debts and environmental liabilities, except for our contractual obligations that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner. To the extent our general partner incurs obligations on our behalf, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify our general partner. If we are unable or unwilling to reimburse or indemnify our general partner, our general partner may take actions to cause us to make payments of these obligations and liabilities. Any such payments could reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders. Holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders will not elect our general partner or our general partner’s board of directors, and will have no right to elect our general partner or our general partner’s board of directors on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner is chosen by Targa. Furthermore, if the unitholders were dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they have little ability to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Even if holders of our common units are dissatisfied, they cannot initially remove our general partner without its consent. Our unitholders are unable to remove our general partner without its consent because our general partner and its affiliates own sufficient units to be able to prevent its removal. The vote of the holders of at least 662/3% of all outstanding units voting together as a single class is required to remove the general partner. Our general partner and its affiliates own 37.4% of our aggregate outstanding common and subordinated units. Also, if our general partner is removed without cause during the subordination period and units held by our general partner and its affiliates are not voted in favor of that removal, all remaining subordinated units will automatically convert into common units and any existing arrearages on our common units will be extinguished. A removal of our general partner under these circumstances would adversely affect our common units by prematurely eliminating their distribution and liquidation preference over our subordinated units, which would otherwise have continued until we had met certain distribution and performance tests. Cause is narrowly defined to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding the general partner liable for actual fraud or willful or wanton misconduct in its capacity as our 32 Table of Contents general partner. Cause does not include most cases of charges of poor management of the business, so the removal of the general partner because of the unitholder’s dissatisfaction with our general partner’s performance in managing our partnership will most likely result in the termination of the subordination period and conversion of all subordinated units to common units. We may issue additional units without your approval, which would dilute your existing ownership interests. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional limited partner interests that we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: • our unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; • because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase; • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and • the market price of the common units may decline. Affiliates of our general partner may sell common units in the public markets, which sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units. Management of our general partner and Targa beneficially hold 85,700 common units and 11,528,231 subordinated units. All of the subordinated units will convert into common units at the end of the subordination period and may convert earlier. The sale of these units in the public markets could have an adverse impact on the price of the common units or on any trading market that may develop. Our general partner may elect to cause us to issue Class B units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our general partner’s incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of our general partner or holders of our common units. This ability may result in lower distributions to holders of our common units in certain situations. Our general partner has the right, at a time when there are no subordinated units outstanding and it has received incentive distributions at the highest level to which it is entitled (48%) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters, to reset the initial cash target distribution levels at higher levels based on the distribution at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election by our general partner, the minimum quarterly distribution amount will be reset to an amount equal to the average cash distribution amount per common unit for the two fiscal quarters immediately preceding the reset election (such amount is referred to as the “reset minimum quarterly distribution”) and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution amount. In connection with resetting these target distribution levels, our general partner will be entitled to receive Class B units. The Class B units will be entitled to the same cash distributions per unit as our common units and will be convertible into an equal number of common units. The number of Class B units to be issued will be equal to that number of common units whose aggregate quarterly cash distributions equaled the average of the distributions to our general partner on the incentive distribution rights in the prior two quarters. We anticipate that our general partner would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion; however, it is possible that our general partner could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or may be expected to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its 33 Table of Contents incentive distribution rights and may therefore desire to be issued our Class B units, which are entitled to receive cash distributions from us on the same priority as our common units, rather than retain the right to receive incentive distributions based on the initial target distribution levels. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience dilution in the amount of cash distributions that they would have otherwise received had we not issued new Class B units to our general partner in connection with resetting the target distribution levels related to our general partner’s incentive distribution rights. Increases in interest rates could adversely impact our unit price and our ability to issue additional equity to make acquisitions, for expansion capital expenditures or for other purposes. As with other yield-oriented securities, our unit price is impacted by the level of our cash distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank related yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our unit price and our ability to issue additional equity to make acquisitions, for expansion capital expenditures or for other purposes. We will incur increased costs as a result of being a publicly-traded company. We have a limited history operating as a publicly-traded company. As a publicly-traded company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, have required changes in corporate governance practices of publicly-traded companies. We expect these new rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, as a result of becoming a publicly-traded company, we are required to have at least three independent directors, create additional board committees and adopt policies regarding internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures, including the preparation of reports on internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, we will incur additional costs associated with our publicly-traded company reporting requirements. We also expect these new rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for our general partner to obtain director and officer liability insurance and it may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for our general partner to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on its board of directors or as executive officers. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units. Unitholders’ voting rights are further restricted by the partnership agreement provision providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of the owners of our general partner from transferring all or a portion of their respective ownership interest in our general partner to a third party. The new owners of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner with its own choices and thereby influence the decisions taken by the board of directors and officers. 34 Table of Contents Our general partner has a limited call right that may require you to sell your units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. As a result, you may be required to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on your investment. You may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of your units. At the end of the subordination period, assuming no additional issuances of common units, our general partner and its affiliates will own approximately 37.4% of our aggregate outstanding common units. Your liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law and we conduct business in Texas. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. You could be liable for any and all of our obligations as if you were a general partner if: • a court or government agency determined that we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state’s partnership statute; or • your right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace the general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitute “control” of our business. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution to you if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Substituted limited partners are liable for the obligations of the assignor to make contributions to the partnership that are known to the substituted limited partner at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from the partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, were to treat us as a corporation or if we were to become subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in the common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter affecting us. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35% and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to you would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to you. Because a tax would be imposed upon us 35 Table of Contents as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to the unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Current law may change so as to cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation. In addition, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, margin, franchise and other forms of taxation. For example, beginning in 2008, we will be subject to a new entity level tax on the portion of our income that is generated in Texas. Imposition of such a tax on us by Texas, or any other state, will reduce the cash available for distribution to you. The partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts will be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely affected, and the cost of any contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to you. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the conclusions of our counsel expressed in this annual report or from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. You may be required to pay taxes on your share of our income even if you do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders are treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, you may be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on your share of our taxable income even if you receive no cash distributions from us. You may not receive cash distributions from us equal to your share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. Tax gain or loss on disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If you sell your common units, you will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and your tax basis in those common units. Prior distributions to you in excess of the total net taxable income you were allocated for a common unit, which decreased your tax basis in that common unit, will, in effect, become taxable income to you if the common unit is sold at a price greater than your tax basis in that common unit, even if the price you receive is less than your original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income. In addition, if you sell your units, you may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash you receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and foreign persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), other retirement plans and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file United States federal tax returns and pay tax on their share of our 36 Table of Contents taxable income. If you are a tax-exempt entity or a foreign person, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our common units. We treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to you. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to your tax returns. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated our partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. You may be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states where you do not live as a result of investing in our common units. In addition to federal income taxes, you might be subject to return filing requirements and other taxes, including foreign, state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property, now or in the future, even if you do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Further, you may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We initially own assets and conduct business in the State of Texas. Currently, Texas does not impose a personal income tax on individuals. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or do business in states that impose a personal income tax. It is your responsibility to file all United States federal, state and local tax returns. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion on the foreign, state or local tax consequences of an investment in our common units. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 