Risk Factors Limited partner interests are inherently different from capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in similar businesses. The nature of our business activities subject us to certain hazards and risks. You should consider carefully the following risk factors together with all of the other information contained in this report. Additional risks not presently known to us or which we consider immaterial based on information currently available to us may also materially adversely affect us. If any of the following risks were actually to occur, then our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business We may not be able to obtain funding or obtain funding on acceptable terms because of the deterioration of the credit and capital markets. This may hinder or prevent us from meeting our future capital needs. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been and continue to be, disrupted and volatile. The debt and equity capital markets have been exceedingly distressed. These issues, along with significant write-offs in the financial services sector, the re-pricing of credit risk and the current weak economic conditions have made and will likely continue to make, it difficult to obtain funding. In particular, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially while the availability of funds from those markets generally has diminished significantly. Also, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining funds from the credit markets generally has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at maturity at all or on terms similar to our current debt and reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. In addition, in October 2008, Lehman Brothers Commercial Bank (“Lehman Bank”) defaulted on a borrowing request under our senior secured revolving credit facility (“credit facility”) which effectively reduced our total commitments under our credit facility by approximately $10.0 million. We can provide no assurance that other lending counterparties will be willing or able to meet their existing funding obligations under our credit facility. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that funding will be available, if needed and to the extent required, on acceptable terms. If funding is not available when needed or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our business funding requirements, grow our existing business, complete acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Our substantial amount of indebtedness could adversely affect our financial position. We currently have a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2008 we had approximately $696.8 million of total indebtedness outstanding, approximately $9.7 million of letters of credit outstanding and $342.5 million of additional borrowing capacity under our credit facility. In October 2008, one of the lenders under our credit facility, Lehman Bank, defaulted on a borrowing request. As a result, we believe the total commitments under the credit facility have been effectively reduced by approximately $10.0 million. Our credit facility allows us to request increases in the commitments under the credit facility of up to $150 million. We may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our substantial indebtedness may: · make it difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, including making scheduled principal and interest payments on our indebtedness; · limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS · limit our ability to use our cash flow or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; · require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments; · limit our flexibility to plan for or react to, changes in our business and industry; · place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; and · increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions. We require a significant amount of cash to service our indebtedness. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to service our debt depends upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions; reducing or delaying our business activities, investments, acquisitions or capital expenditures; selling assets; restructuring or refinancing our debt; or seeking additional equity capital. We may not be able to affect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations —Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Our cash flow is affected by supply and demand for natural gas and NGL products and by natural gas and NGL prices and decreases in these prices could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to holders of our common units and subordinated units. Our operations can be affected by the level of natural gas and NGL prices and the relationship between these prices. The prices of natural gas and NGLs have been volatile and we expect this volatility to continue. Our future cash flow may be materially adversely affected if we experience significant, prolonged pricing deterioration and we may be unable to maintain our current level of distributions. The markets and prices for natural gas and NGLs depend upon factors beyond our control. These factors include demand for these commodities, which fluctuate with changes in market and economic conditions and other factors, including: · the impact of seasonality and weather; · general economic conditions and the economic conditions impacting our primary markets; · the economic conditions of our customers; · the level of domestic crude oil and natural gas production and consumption; · the availability of imported natural gas, liquefied natural gas, NGLs and crude oil; · actions taken by foreign oil and gas producing nations; · the availability of local, intrastate and interstate transportation systems and storage for residue natural gas and NGLs; · the availability and marketing of competitive fuels and/or feedstocks; · the impact of energy conservation efforts; and · the extent of governmental regulation and taxation. 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our primary natural gas gathering and processing arrangements that expose us to commodity price risk are our percent-of-proceeds arrangements. For the year ended December 31, 2008, our percent-of-proceeds arrangements accounted for approximately 77% of our gathered natural gas volume. Under percent-of-proceeds arrangements, we generally process natural gas from producers and remit to the producers an agreed percentage of the proceeds from the sale of residue gas and NGL products at market prices or a percentage of residue gas and NGL products at the tailgate of our processing facilities. In some percent-of-proceeds arrangements, we remit to the producer a percentage of an index or index-based price for residue gas and NGL products, less agreed adjustments, rather than remitting a portion of the actual sales proceeds. Under these types of arrangements, our revenues and our cash flows increase or decrease, whichever is applicable, as the prices of natural gas, NGL and crude oil fluctuate. For additional information regarding our hedging activities, see “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk —Commodity Price Risk.” Because of the natural decline in production from existing wells in our operating regions, our success depends on our ability to obtain new sources of supplies of natural gas and NGLs, which depends on certain factors beyond our control. Any decrease in supplies of natural gas or NGLs could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our gathering systems are connected to natural gas wells from which production will naturally decline over time, which means that our cash flows associated with these wells will likely also decline over time. To maintain or increase throughput levels on our gathering systems and the utilization rate at our processing plants and our treating and fractionation facilities, we must continually obtain new natural gas and NGL supplies. A material decrease in natural gas production from producing areas on which we rely, as a result of depressed commodity prices or otherwise, could result in a decline in the volume of natural gas that we process and NGL products delivered to our fractionation facilities. Our ability to obtain additional sources of natural gas and NGL depends, in part, on the level of successful drilling and production activity near our gathering systems. We have no control over the level of such activity in the areas of our operations, the amount of reserves associated with the wells or the rate at which production from a well will decline. In addition, we have no control over producers or their drilling or production decisions, which are affected by, among other things, prevailing and projected energy prices, demand for hydrocarbons, the level of reserves, geological considerations, governmental regulations, availability of drilling rigs, other production and development costs and the availability and cost of capital. Fluctuations in energy prices can greatly affect production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new oil and natural gas reserves. Drilling and production activity generally decreases as oil and natural gas prices decrease. Prices of oil and natural gas have been extremely volatile and we expect this volatility to continue. Energy commodity prices and demand have recently declined substantially, leading many exploration and production companies, including several in our areas of operation, to announce reduced capital expenditure levels for 2009 and could lead producers in our areas of operation to shut-in wells during the coming year. Consequently, even if new natural gas reserves are discovered in areas served by our assets, producers may choose not to develop those reserves. Reductions in exploration and production activity, competitor actions or shut-ins by producers in the areas in which we operate may prevent us from obtaining new supplies of natural gas to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing wells, which could result in reduced volumes through our facilities and reduced utilization of our gathering, treating, processing and fractionation assets. Should reductions negatively impact our results of operations, they may impair our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. If we fail to balance our purchases of natural gas and our sales of residue gas and NGLs, our exposure to commodity price risk will increase. We may not be successful in balancing our purchases of natural gas and our sales of residue gas and NGLs. In addition, a producer could fail to deliver promised volumes to us or deliver in excess of contracted volumes or a purchaser could purchase less than contracted volumes. Any of these actions could cause an imbalance between our purchases and sales. If our purchases and sales are not balanced, we will face increased exposure to commodity price risks and could have increased volatility in our operating income. 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our hedging activities may not be effective in reducing the variability of our cash flows and may, in certain circumstances, increase the variability of our cash flows. Moreover, our hedges may not fully protect us against volatility in basis differentials. Finally, the percentage of our expected equity commodity volumes that are hedged decreases substantially over time. We have entered into derivative transactions related to only a portion of our equity volumes. As a result, we will continue to have direct commodity price risk to the unhedged portion. Our actual future volumes may be significantly higher or lower than we estimated at the time we entered into the derivative transactions for that period. If the actual amount is higher than we estimated, we will have greater commodity price risk than we intended. If the actual amount is lower than the amount that is subject to our hedges, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our derivative transactions without the benefit of the cash flow from our sale of the underlying physical commodity, resulting in a reduction of our liquidity. The percentages of our expected equity volumes that are covered by our hedges decrease over time. To the extent we hedge our commodity price risk, we may forego the benefits we would otherwise experience if commodity prices were to change in our favor. The derivative instruments we utilize for these hedges are based on posted market prices, which may be higher or lower than the actual natural gas, NGLs and condensate prices that we realize in our operations. These pricing differentials may be substantial and could materially impact the prices we ultimately realize. In addition, current market and economic conditions may adversely affect our hedge counterparties’ ability to meet their obligations. Given the current volatility in the financial and commodity markets, we may experience defaults by our hedge counterparties in the future. As a result of these and other factors, our hedging activities may not be as effective as we intend in reducing the variability of our cash flows and in certain circumstances may actually increase the variability of our cash flows. For additional information regarding our hedging activities, see “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Commodity Price Risk.” We depend on two natural gas producers for a significant portion of our supply of natural gas. The loss of these customers or the replacement of their contracts on less favorable terms could result in a decline in our volumes, revenues and cash available for distribution. Our largest natural gas supplier for 2008 was Crosstex, a gas gatherer who accounted for approximately 12% of our supply, which sells gas to us on a spot basis. In addition, purchases from ConocoPhillips accounted for approximately 11% of our combined gathering volumes in 2008. The loss of all or even a portion of the natural gas volumes supplied by these customers or the extension or replacement of these contracts on less favorable terms, if at all, as a result of competition or otherwise, could reduce our revenue or increase our cost for product purchases, impairing our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. If third party pipelines and other facilities interconnected to our natural gas pipelines and processing facilities become partially or fully unavailable to transport natural gas and NGLs, our revenues could be adversely affected. We depend upon third party pipelines, storage and other facilities that provide delivery options to and from our pipelines and processing facilities. Since we do not own or operate these pipelines or other facilities, their continuing operation in their current manner is not within our control. If any of these third party facilities become partially or fully unavailable or if the quality specifications for their pipelines or facilities change so as to restrict our ability to use them, our revenues and cash available for distribution could be adversely affected. If future acquisitions do not perform as expected, our future financial performance may be negatively impacted. Acquisitions may significantly increase our size and diversify the geographic areas in which we operate. We can not assure you that we will achieve the desired affect from acquisitions we may complete in the future. In addition, failure to assimilate future acquisitions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: · operating a significantly larger combined organization and adding operations; · difficulties in the assimilation of the assets and operations of the acquired businesses, especially if the assets acquired are in a new business segment or geographic area; 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS · the risk that natural gas reserves expected to support the acquired assets may not be of the anticipated magnitude or may not be developed as anticipated; · the failure to realize expected profitability or growth; · the failure to realize any expected synergies and cost savings; and · coordinating geographically disparate organizations, systems and facilities. Further unexpected costs and challenges may arise whenever businesses with different operations or management are combined and we may experience unanticipated delays in realizing the benefits of an acquisition. If we consummate any future acquisition, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly and you may not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in evaluating future acquisitions. We are exposed to the credit risk of Targa and any material nonperformance by Targa could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We have entered into purchase agreements with Targa pursuant to which Targa will purchase (i) all of the North Texas System’s natural gas, NGLs and high-pressure condensate for a term of 15 years and (ii) substantially all of the SAOU and LOU Systems’ natural gas for a term of 15 years and NGLs for a term of one year. Targa also manages the SAOU and LOU Systems’ natural gas sales to third parties under contracts that remain in the name of the SAOU and LOU Systems. We are also party to an amended and restated Omnibus Agreement with Targa which addresses, among other things, the provision of general and administrative and operating services to us. Targa’s corporate credit ratings as assigned by Moody’s and Standard & Poors as of February 25, 2009 are B1 and B, which are speculative ratings. These speculative ratings signify a higher risk that Targa will default on its obligations, including its obligations to us, than does an investment grade credit rating. Any material nonperformance under the omnibus and purchase agreements by Targa could materially and adversely impact our ability to operate and make distributions to our unitholders. Our general partner is an obligor under and subject to a pledge related to, Targa’s credit facility; in the event Targa is unable to meet its obligations under that facility or is declared bankrupt, Targa’s lenders may gain control of our general partner or, in the case of bankruptcy, our partnership may be dissolved. Targa Resources GP LLC, our general partner, is an obligor under and all of its assets and Targa’s ownership interest in it are subject to a lien related to, Targa’s credit facility. In the event Targa is unable to satisfy its obligations under its credit facility and the lenders foreclose on their collateral, the lenders will own our general partner and all of its assets, which include the general partner interest in us and our incentive distribution rights. In such event, the lenders would control our management and operation. Moreover, in the event Targa becomes insolvent or is declared bankrupt, our general partner may be deemed insolvent or declared bankrupt as well. Under the terms of our partnership agreement, the bankruptcy or insolvency of our general partner will cause a dissolution of our partnership. Our industry is highly competitive and increased competitive pressure could adversely affect our business and operating results. We compete with similar enterprises in our respective areas of operation. Some of our competitors are large oil, natural gas and NGL companies that have greater financial resources and access to supplies of natural gas and NGLs than we do. Some of these competitors may expand or construct gathering, processing and transportation systems that would create additional competition for the services we provide to our customers. In addition, our customers who are significant producers of natural gas may develop their own gathering, processing and transportation systems in lieu of using ours. Our ability to renew or replace existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of our competitors and our customers. All of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions. 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS Typically do not obtain independent evaluations of natural gas reserves dedicated to our gathering pipeline systems; therefore, volumes of natural gas on our systems in the future could be less than we anticipate. We typically do not obtain independent evaluations of natural gas reserves connected to our gathering systems due to the unwillingness of producers to provide reserve information as well as the cost of such evaluations. Accordingly, we do not have independent estimates of total reserves dedicated to our gathering systems or the anticipated life of such reserves. If the total reserves or estimated life of the reserves connected to our gathering systems is less than we anticipate and we are unable to secure additional sources of natural gas, then the volumes of natural gas transported on our gathering systems in the future could be less than we anticipate. A decline in the volumes of natural gas on our systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. A reduction in demand for NGL products by the petrochemical, refining or other industries or by the fuel markets could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The NGL products we produce have a variety of applications, including petrochemical feedstocks and refining blend stocks. A reduction in demand for NGL products, whether because of general or industry-specific economic conditions, new government regulations, global competition, reduced demand by consumers for products made with NGL products (for example, reduced petrochemical demand recently observed due to lower activity in the automobile and construction industries), increased competition from petroleum-based feedstocks due to pricing differences, mild winter weather for some NGL applications or other reasons, could result in a decline in the volume of NGL products we handle or reduce the fees we charge for our services. Our NGL products and their demand are affected as follows: Ethane. Ethane is typically supplied as purity ethane and as part of ethane-propane mix. Ethane is primarily used in the petrochemical industry as feedstock for ethylene, one of the basic building blocks for a wide range of plastics and other chemical products. Although ethane is typically extracted as part of the mixed NGL stream at gas processing plants, if natural gas prices increase significantly in relation to NGL product prices or if the demand for ethylene falls, it may be more profitable for natural gas processors to leave the ethane in the natural gas stream thereby reducing the volume of NGLs delivered for fractionation and marketing. Propane. Propane is used as a petrochemical feedstock in the production of ethylene and propylene, as a heating, engine and industrial fuel and in agricultural applications such as crop drying. Changes in demand for ethylene and propylene could adversely affect demand for propane. The demand for propane as a heating fuel is significantly affected by weather conditions. The volume of propane sold is at its highest during the six-month peak heating season of October through March. Demand for our propane may be reduced during periods of warmer-than-normal weather. Normal Butane. Normal butane is used in the production of isobutane, as a refined product blending component, as a fuel gas, either alone or in a mixture with propane and in the production of ethylene and propylene. Changes in the composition of refined products resulting from governmental regulation, changes in feedstocks, products and economics, demand for heating fuel and for ethylene and propylene, could adversely affect demand for normal butane. Isobutane. Isobutane is predominantly used in refineries to produce alkylates to enhance octane levels. Accordingly, any action that reduces demand for motor gasoline or demand for isobutane to produce alkylates for octane enhancement might reduce demand for isobutane. Natural Gasoline. Natural gasoline is used as a blending component for certain refined products and as a feedstock used in the production of ethylene and propylene. Changes in the composition of motor gasoline resulting from governmental regulation and in demand for ethylene and propylene could adversely affect demand for natural gasoline. NGLs and products produced from NGLs also compete with products from global markets. Any reduced demand for ethane, propane, normal butane, isobutane or natural gasoline at the markets we access for any of the reasons stated above could adversely affect demand for the services we provide as well as NGL prices, which would negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. 24 TABLE OF CONTENTS We do not own most of the land on which our pipelines and compression facilities are located, which could disrupt our operations. We do not own most of the land on which our pipelines and compression facilities are located and we are therefore subject to the possibility of more onerous terms and/or increased costs to retain necessary land use if we do not have valid rights of way or leases or if such rights of way or leases lapse or terminate. We sometimes obtain the rights to land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. Our loss of these rights, through our inability to renew right-of-way contracts, leases or otherwise, could cause us to cease operations on the affected land, increase costs related to continuing operations elsewhere, reduce our revenue and impair our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Weather may limit our ability to operate our business and could adversely affect our operating results. The weather in the areas in which we operate can cause disruptions and in some cases suspension of our operations. Examples include unseasonably wet weather, extended periods of below-freezing weather and hurricanes. Disruptions or suspension of our operations caused by weather could adversely affect our operating results. Our business involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. Our operations are subject to many hazards inherent in the gathering, compressing, treating, processing and transporting of natural gas and NGLs, including: · damage to pipelines and plants, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, fires and other natural disasters, explosions and acts of terrorism; · inadvertent damage from third parties, including from construction, farm and utility equipment; · leaks of natural gas, NGLs and other hydrocarbons or losses of natural gas or NGLs as a result of the malfunction of equipment or facilities; and · other hazards that could also result in personal injury and loss of life, pollution and suspension of operations. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury, loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage and may result in curtailment or suspension of our related operations. A natural disaster or other hazard affecting the areas in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our operations. For example, Hurricanes Katrina and Rita damaged gathering systems, processing facilities, NGL fractionators and pipelines along the Gulf Coast, including certain of our facilities. These hurricanes disrupted the operations of our customers in August and September 2005, which curtailed or suspended the operations of various energy companies with assets in the region. The Louisiana and Texas Gulf Coast was similarly impacted in September 2008 as a result of Hurricanes Gustav and Ike. We are not fully insured against all risks inherent to our business. We are not insured against all environmental accidents that might occur which may include toxic tort claims, other than incidents considered to be sudden and accidental. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, if we fail to recover all anticipated insurance proceeds for significant accidents or events for which we are insured or if we fail to rebuild facilities damaged by such accidents or events, our operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies have increased substantially and could escalate further. For example, following Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, insurance premiums, deductibles and co-insurance requirements increased substantially and terms generally are less favorable than terms that could be obtained prior to such hurricanes. The insurance market conditions have worsened as a result of the losses sustained from Hurricanes Gustav and Ike in September 2008. As a result, we expect to experience further increases in deductibles and premiums and further reductions in coverage and limits, with some coverages unavailable at any cost. 25 TABLE OF CONTENTS Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our business. In addition to our exposure to commodity prices, we have significant exposure to increases in interest rates. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $487.8 million of debt outstanding under our credit facility at variable interest rates. Our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by significant increases in interest rates. See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk —Interest Rate Risk.” Restrictions in our credit facility may interrupt distributions to us from our subsidiaries, which may limit our ability to make distributions to you, satisfy our obligations and capitalize on business opportunities. We are a holding company with no business operations. As such, we depend on the earnings and cash flow of our subsidiaries and the distribution of that cash to us in order to meet our obligations and to allow us to make distributions to our unitholders. Our credit facility contains covenants limiting our ability to make distributions, incur indebtedness, grant liens and engage in transactions with affiliates. Furthermore, our credit facility contains covenants requiring us to maintain a ratio of consolidated indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA of not more than 5.50 to 1.00 and a ratio of consolidated EBITDA to consolidated interest expense of not less than 2.25 to 1.00. If we fail to meet these tests or otherwise breach the terms of our credit facility our operating subsidiary will be prohibited from making any distribution to us and, ultimately, to you. Any interruption of distributions to us from our subsidiaries may limit our ability to satisfy our obligations and to make distributions to you. For more information regarding our credit facility, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations —Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Our acquisition strategy requires access to new capital. Tightened capital markets or increased competition for investment opportunities could impair our ability to grow through acquisitions. We continuously consider and enter into discussions regarding potential acquisitions. Any limitations on our access to capital will impair our ability to execute this strategy. If the cost of such capital becomes too expensive, our ability to develop or acquire strategic and accretive assets will be limited. We may not be able to raise the necessary funds on satisfactory terms, if at all. The primary factors that influence our initial cost of equity include market conditions, fees we pay to underwriters and other offering costs, which include amounts we pay for legal and accounting services. The primary factors influencing our cost of borrowing include interest rates, credit spreads, covenants, underwriting or loan origination fees and similar charges we pay to lenders. Current weak economic conditions and the volatility and disruption in the weak financial markets have increased the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets substantially while diminishing the availability of funds from those markets. Also, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets generally has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at maturity at all or on terms similar to our current debt and reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. These factors may impair our ability to execute our acquisition strategy. In addition, we typically experience competitive bidding for the types of assets we contemplate purchasing. The weak economic conditions and competition for asset purchases could limit our ability to fully execute our growth strategy. Our inability to execute our growth strategy could materially adversely affect our ability to maintain or pay higher distributions in the future. 26 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may incur significant costs and liabilities in the future resulting from a failure to comply with new or existing environmental laws or regulations or an accidental release of hazardous substances, hydrocarbons or wastes into the environment. Our operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. For more information on our operations, see “Item 1. Business—Our Systems” for additional information on our operations. These laws include, for example, (1) the federal Clean Air Act and comparable state laws that impose obligations related to air emissions, (2) the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”) and comparable state laws that impose requirements for the handling, storage, treatment or disposal of solid and hazardous waste from our facilities, (3) the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (“CERCLA”) also known as “Superfund,” and comparable state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or at locations to which our hazardous substances have been transported for disposal and (4) the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (the “Clean Water Act”) and comparable state laws that regulate discharges of wastewater from our facilities to state and federal waters. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations or newly adopted laws or regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations or imposing additional compliance requirements on such operations. Certain environmental laws, including CERCLA and analogous state laws, impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where hazardous substances or hydrocarbons have been disposed or otherwise released. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances, hydrocarbons or waste products into the environment. There is inherent risk of incurring environmental costs and liabilities in connection with our operations due to our handling of natural gas and other petroleum products, air emissions and water discharges related to our operations and historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. For example, an accidental release from one of our facilities could subject us to substantial liabilities arising from environmental cleanup and restoration costs, claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury, natural resource and property damages and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. Moreover, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase our operational or compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. In particular, we may incur expenditures in order to attain or maintain compliance with legal requirements governing emissions of air pollutants from our facilities. We may not be able to recover all or any of these costs from insurance. For further information on environmental matters, see “Item 1. Business— Environmental, Health and Safety Matters” for additional information on environmental matters. A change in the jurisdictional characterization of some of our assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies may result in increased regulation of our assets, which may cause our revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase. The NGA exempts natural gas gathering facilities from regulation by FERC as a natural gas company under the NGA. We believe that the natural gas pipelines in our gathering systems meet the traditional tests FERC has used to establish a pipeline’s status as a gatherer not subject to regulation as a natural gas company. However, the distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is the subject of substantial, on-going litigation, so the classification and regulation of our gathering facilities are subject to change based on future determinations by FERC, the courts or Congress. While our natural gas gathering operations are generally exempt from FERC regulation under the NGA, our gas gathering operations may be subject to certain FERC reporting and posting requirements in a given year. FERC has recently issued a final rule (as amended by orders on rehearing, “Order 704”) requiring certain participants in the natural gas market, including intrastate pipelines, natural gas gatherers, natural gas marketers and natural gas processors, that engage in a minimum level of natural gas sales or purchases to submit annual reports regarding those transactions to FERC. In addition, FERC has issued a final rule (“Order 720”) requiring major non-interstate pipelines, defined as certain non-interstate pipelines delivering, on an annual basis, more than an average of 50 million MMBtus of gas over the previous three calendar years, to post daily certain information regarding the pipeline’s capacity and scheduled flows for each receipt and delivery point that has design capacity equal to or greater than 15,000 MMBtu per day. 27 TABLE OF CONTENTS Other FERC regulations may indirectly impact our businesses and the markets for products derived from these businesses. FERC’s policies and practices across the range of its natural gas regulatory activities, including, for example, its policies on open access transportation, gas quality, ratemaking, capacity release and market center promotion, may indirectly affect the intrastate natural gas market. In recent years, FERC has pursued pro-competitive policies in its regulation of interstate natural gas pipelines. However, we cannot assure you that FERC will continue this approach as it considers matters such as pipeline rates and rules and policies that may affect rights of access to transportation capacity. For more information regarding the regulation of Targa’s operations, see “Item 1. Business—Regulation of Operations”. Should we fail to comply with all applicable FERC administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines. Under the EP Act 2005, FERC has civil penalty authority under the NGA to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1 million per day for each violation and disgorgement of profits associated with any violation. While our systems have not been regulated by FERC as a natural gas companies under the NGA, FERC has adopted regulations that may subject certain of our otherwise non-FERC jurisdictional facilities to FERC annual reporting and daily scheduled flow and capacity posting requirements. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to those and other matters may be considered or adopted by FERC from time to time. Failure to comply with those regulations in the future could subject Targa to civil penalty liability. For more information regarding regulation of Targa’s operations, see “Item 1. Business— Regulation of Operations”. Unexpected volume changes due to production variability or to gathering, plant or pipeline system disruptions may increase our exposure to commodity price movements. Targa sells our processed natural gas to third parties and other Targa affiliates at our plant tailgates or at pipeline pooling points. Targa also manages the SAOU and LOU Systems’ natural gas sales to third parties under contracts that remain in the name of the SAOU and LOU Systems. Sales made to natural gas marketers and end-users may be interrupted by disruptions to volumes anywhere along the system. Targa will attempt to balance sales with volumes supplied from our processing operations, but unexpected volume variations due to production variability or to gathering, plant or pipeline system disruptions may expose us to volume imbalances which, in conjunction with movements in commodity prices, could materially impact our income from operations and cash flow. We may incur significant costs and liabilities resulting from pipeline integrity programs and related repairs. Pursuant to the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002, as reauthorized and amended by the Pipeline Inspections, Protection, Enforcement and Safety Act of 2006, DOT, through the PHMSA, has adopted regulations requiring pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs for transmission pipelines located where a leak or rupture could do the most harm in “high consequence areas,” including high population areas, areas that are sources of drinking water, ecological resource areas that are unusually sensitive to environmental damage from a pipeline release and commercially navigable waterways, unless the operator effectively demonstrates by risk assessment that the pipeline could not affect the area. The regulations require operators of covered pipelines to: · perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity; · identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact a high consequence area; · improve data collection, integration and analysis; · repair and remediate the pipeline as necessary; and · implement preventive and mitigating actions. 28 TABLE OF CONTENTS In addition, states have adopted regulations similar to existing U.S. DOT regulations for intrastate gathering and transmission lines. We currently estimate that we will incur an aggregate cost of approximately $1.2 million between 2009 and 2011 to implement pipeline integrity management program testing along certain segments of our natural gas and NGL pipelines. This estimate does not include the costs, if any, of any repair, remediation, preventative or mitigating actions that may be determined to be necessary as a result of the testing program, which costs could be substantial. At this time, we cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with this regulation, as the cost will vary significantly depending on the number and extent of any repairs found to be necessary as a result of the pipeline integrity testing. Following the initial round of testing and repairs, we will continue our pipeline integrity testing programs to assess and maintain the integrity or our pipelines. The results of these tests could cause us to incur significant and unanticipated capital and operating expenditures for repairs or upgrades deemed necessary to ensure the continued safe and reliable operations of our pipelines. Our construction of new assets may not result in revenue increases and is subject to regulatory, environmental, political, legal and economic risks, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. One of the ways we intend to grow our business is through the construction of new midstream assets. The construction of additions or modifications to our existing systems and the construction of new midstream assets, involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties beyond our control and may require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital. If we undertake these projects, they may not be completed on schedule or at the budgeted cost or at all. Moreover, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. For instance, if we expand a new pipeline, the construction may occur over an extended period of time and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until the project is completed. Moreover, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which such growth does not materialize. Since we are not engaged in the exploration for and development of natural gas and oil reserves, we do not possess reserve expertise and we often do not have access to third party estimates of potential reserves in an area prior to constructing facilities in such area. To the extent we rely on estimates of future production in our decision to construct additions to our systems, such estimates may prove to be inaccurate because there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of future production. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough throughput to achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the construction of additions to our existing gathering and transportation assets may require us to obtain new rights-of-way prior to constructing new pipelines. We may be unable to obtain such rights-of-way to connect new natural gas supplies to our existing gathering lines or capitalize on other attractive expansion opportunities. Additionally, it may become more expensive for us to obtain new rights-of-way or to renew existing rights-of-way. If the cost of renewing or obtaining new rights-of-way increases, our cash flows could be adversely affected. If we do not make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms or efficiently and effectively integrate the acquired assets with our asset base, our future growth will be limited. Our ability to grow depends, in part, on our ability to make acquisitions that result in an increase in cash generated from operations per unit. If we are unable to make these accretive acquisitions either because we are (1) unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts with them, (2) unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms or (3) outbid by competitors, then our future growth and ability to increase distributions will be limited. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: · inaccurate assumptions about volumes, revenues and costs, including synergies; · an inability to integrate successfully the businesses we acquire; · the assumption of unknown liabilities; · limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; · inaccurate assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt; · the diversion of management’s and employees’ attention from other business concerns; 29 TABLE OF CONTENTS · unforeseen difficulties operating in new product areas or new geographic areas; and · customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses. If these risks materialize, the acquired assets may inhibit our growth or fail to deliver expected benefits. Our acquisition strategy is based, in part, on our expectation of ongoing divestitures of energy assets by industry participants. A material decrease in such divestitures would limit our opportunities for future acquisitions and could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. We do not have any officers or employees and rely solely on officers of our general partner and employees of Targa. None of the officers of our general partner are employees of our general partner. We have entered into an Omnibus Agreement with Targa, pursuant to which Targa operates our assets and performs other administrative services for us such as accounting, legal, regulatory, corporate development, finance, land and engineering. Affiliates of Targa conduct businesses and activities of their own in which we have no economic interest, including businesses and activities relating to Targa. As a result, there could be material competition for the time and effort of the officers and employees who provide services to our general partner and Targa. If the officers of our general partner and the employees of Targa do not devote sufficient attention to the management and operation of our business, our financial results may suffer and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders may be reduced. If our general partner fails to maintain an effective system of internal controls, then we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential unitholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our common units. Targa Resources GP LLC, our general partner, has sole responsibility for conducting our business and for managing our operations. Effective internal controls are necessary for our general partner, on our behalf, to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and operate us successfully as a public company. If our general partner’s efforts to develop and maintain its internal controls are not successful, it is unable to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or it is unable to assist us in complying with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our operating results could be harmed or we may fail to meet our reporting obligations. Ineffective internal controls also could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common units. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to holders of our common units and subordinated units depends primarily on our cash flow and not solely on profitability. Consequently, even if we are profitable, we may not be able to make cash distributions to holders of our common units and subordinated units. You should be aware that the amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses for financial accounting purposes and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net earnings for financial accounting purposes. Terrorist attacks and the threat of terrorist attacks, have resulted in increased costs to our business. Continued hostilities in the Middle East or other sustained military campaigns may adversely impact our results of operations. The long-term impact of terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001 and the threat of future terrorist attacks on our industry in general and on us in particular, is not known at this time. However, resulting regulatory requirements and/or related business decisions associated with security are likely to increase our costs. Increased security measures taken by us as a precaution against possible terrorist attacks have resulted in increased costs to our business. Uncertainty surrounding continued hostilities in the Middle East or other sustained military campaigns may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of crude oil supplies and markets for our products and the possibility that infrastructure facilities could be direct targets of or indirect casualties of, an act of terror. 30 TABLE OF CONTENTS Changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks may make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. Moreover, the insurance that may be available to us may be significantly more expensive than our existing insurance coverage. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war could also affect our ability to raise capital. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us Cash distributions are not guaranteed and may fluctuate with our performance and the establishment of financial reserves. Because distributions on the common units are dependent on the amount of cash we generate, distributions may fluctuate based on our performance. The actual amount of cash that is available to be distributed each quarter will depend on numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control and the control of the general partner. Cash distributions are dependent primarily on cash flow, including cash flow from financial reserves and working capital borrowings and not solely on profitability, which is affected by non-cash items. Therefore, cash distributions might be made during periods when we record losses and might not be made during periods when we record profits. In order to make cash distributions at our current distribution rate of $0.5175 per common unit and subordinated unit per complete quarter or $2.07 per unit per year, we will require available cash of approximately $26.4 million per quarter or $105.4 million per year, based on common units and subordinated units outstanding as of December 31, 2008. We may not have sufficient available cash from operating surplus each quarter to enable us to make cash distributions at our current distribution rate under our cash distribution policy. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: · the fees we charge and the margins we realize for our services; · the prices of, levels of production of and demand for, natural gas and NGLs; · the volume of natural gas we gather, treat, compress, process, transport and sell and the volume of NGLs we process or fractionate and sell; · the relationship between natural gas and NGL prices; · cash settlements of hedging positions; · the level of competition from other midstream energy companies; · the level of our operating and maintenance and general and administrative costs; and · prevailing economic conditions. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: · the level of capital expenditures we make; · our ability to make borrowings under our credit facility to pay distributions; · the cost of acquisitions; · our debt service requirements and other liabilities; · fluctuations in our working capital needs; 31 TABLE OF CONTENTS · general and administrative expenses, including expenses we incur as a result of being a public company; · restrictions on distributions contained in our debt agreements; and · the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner for the proper conduct of our business. Targa controls our general partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations. Targa has conflicts of interest with us and may favor its own interests to your detriment. Targa owns and controls our general partner. Some of our general partner’s directors and some of its executive officers, are directors or officers of Targa. Therefore, conflicts of interest may arise between Targa, including our general partner, on the one hand and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: · neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires Targa to pursue a business strategy that favors us. Targa’s directors and officers have a fiduciary duty to make decisions in the best interests of the owners of Targa, which may be contrary to our interests; · our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as Targa or its owners, including Warburg Pincus, in resolving conflicts of interest; and · Targa is not limited in its ability to compete with us and is under no obligation to offer assets to us. The credit and business risk profile of our general partner and its owners could adversely affect our credit ratings and profile. The credit and business risk profiles of the general partner and its owners may be factors in credit evaluations of a master limited partnership. This is because the general partner can exercise significant influence over the business activities of the partnership, including its cash distribution and acquisition strategy and business risk profile. Another factor that may be considered is the financial condition of the general partner and its owners, including the degree of their financial leverage and their dependence on cash flow from the partnership to service their indebtedness. Targa, the owner of our general partner, has significant indebtedness outstanding and is partially dependent on the cash distributions from their indirect general partner and limited partner equity interests in us to service such indebtedness. Any distributions by us to such entities will be made only after satisfying our then current obligations to our creditors. Our credit ratings and business risk profile could be adversely affected if the ratings and risk profiles of the entities that control our general partner were viewed as substantially lower or more risky than ours. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s fiduciary duties to holders of our units and restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. The directors and officers of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to its owner, Targa. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty laws. For example, our partnership agreement: · permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any limited partner; · provides that our general partner does not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as it acted in good faith, meaning it believed the decision was in the best interests of our partnership; 32 TABLE OF CONTENTS · generally provides that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner acting in good faith and not involving a vote of unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or must be “fair and reasonable” to us, as determined by our general partner in good faith and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” our general partner may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us; · provides that our general partner and its officers and directors are not liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and nonappealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that the general partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and · provides that in resolving conflicts of interest, it is presumed that in making its decision the general partner acted in good faith and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or us, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. Targa is not limited in its ability to compete with us, which could limit our ability to acquire additional assets or businesses. Neither our partnership agreement nor the Omnibus Agreement between us and Targa prohibits Targa from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. In addition, Targa may acquire, construct or dispose of additional midstream or other assets in the future, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase or construct any of those assets. Targa is a large, established participant in the midstream energy business and has significantly greater resources and experience than we have, which factors may make it more difficult for us to compete with Targa with respect to commercial activities as well as for acquisition candidates. As a result, competition from Targa could adversely impact our results of operations and cash available for distribution. Cost reimbursements due our general partner and its affiliates for services provided, which will be determined by our general partner, will be substantial and will reduce our cash available for distribution to you. Pursuant to the Omnibus Agreement we entered into with Targa and Targa Resources GP LLC, our general partner, Targa receives reimbursement for the payment of operating expenses related to our operations and for the provision of various general and administrative services for our benefit. Payments for these services are substantial and reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders. See “Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.” In addition, under Delaware partnership law, our general partner has unlimited liability for our obligations, such as our debts and environmental liabilities, except for our contractual obligations that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner. To the extent our general partner incurs obligations on our behalf, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify our general partner. If we are unable or unwilling to reimburse or indemnify our general partner, our general partner may take actions to cause us to make payments on these obligations and liabilities. Any such payments could reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders. Holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders will not elect our general partner or our general partner’s board of directors and have no right to elect our general partner or our general partner’s board of directors on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner is chosen by Targa. Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they have little ability to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. 33 TABLE OF CONTENTS Removal of our general partner without its consent will dilute and adversely affect our common unitholders. If our general partner is removed without cause during the subordination period and units held by our general partner and its affiliates are not voted in favor of that removal, all remaining subordinated units will automatically convert into common units and any existing arrearages on our common units will be extinguished. A removal of our general partner under these circumstances would adversely affect our common units by prematurely eliminating their distribution and liquidation preference over our subordinated units, which would otherwise have continued until we had met certain distribution and performance tests. Cause is narrowly defined to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding the general partner liable for actual fraud or willful or wanton misconduct in its capacity as our general partner. Cause does not include most cases of charges of poor management of the business, so the removal of the general partner because of the unitholder’s dissatisfaction with our general partner’s performance in managing our partnership will most likely result in the termination of the subordination period and conversion of all subordinated units to common units. We may issue additional units without your approval, which would dilute your existing ownership interests. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional limited partner interests that we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: · our unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; · the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; · because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase; · the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; · the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and · the market price of the common units may decline. Affiliates of our general partner may sell common units in the public markets, which sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units. Management of our general partner and Targa beneficially hold 292,252 common units and 11,528,231 subordinated units. All of the subordinated units will convert into common units at the end of the subordination period and may convert earlier. The sale of these units in the public markets could have an adverse impact on the price of the common units or on any trading market that may develop. Our general partner may elect to cause us to issue Class B units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our general partner’s incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of our general partner or holders of our common units. This ability may result in lower distributions to holders of our common units in certain situations. Our general partner has the right, at a time when there are no subordinated units outstanding and it has received incentive distributions at the highest level to which it is entitled (48%) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters, to reset the initial cash target distribution levels at higher levels based on the distribution at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election by our general partner, the minimum quarterly distribution amount will be reset to an amount equal to the average cash distribution amount per common unit for the two fiscal quarters immediately preceding the reset election (such amount is referred to as the “reset minimum quarterly distribution”) and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution amount. 34 TABLE OF CONTENTS In connection with resetting these target distribution levels, our general partner will be entitled to receive Class B units. The Class B units will be entitled to the same cash distributions per unit as our common units and will be convertible into an equal number of common units. The number of Class B units to be issued will be equal to that number of common units whose aggregate quarterly cash distributions equaled the average of the distributions to our general partner on the incentive distribution rights in the prior two quarters. We anticipate that our general partner would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion; however, it is possible that our general partner could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing or may be expected to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may therefore desire to be issued our Class B units, which are entitled to receive cash distributions from us on the same priority as our common units, rather than retain the right to receive incentive distributions based on the initial target distribution levels. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience dilution in the amount of cash distributions that they would have otherwise received had we not issued new Class B units to our general partner in connection with resetting the target distribution levels related to our general partner’s incentive distribution rights. Increases in interest rates could adversely impact our unit price and our ability to issue additional equity to make acquisitions, for expansion capital expenditures or for other purposes. As with other yield-oriented securities, our unit price is impacted by the level of our cash distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank related yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our units and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our unit price and our ability to issue additional equity to make acquisitions, for expansion capital expenditures or for other purposes. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units. Unitholders’ voting rights are further restricted by the partnership agreement provision providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of the owners of our general partner from transferring all or a portion of their respective ownership interest in our general partner to a third party. The new owners of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner with its own choices and thereby influence the decisions taken by the board of directors and officers. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require you to sell your units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. As a result, you may be required to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on your investment. You may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of your units. At the end of the subordination period, assuming no additional issuances of common units, our general partner and its affiliates will own approximately 24.5% of our aggregate outstanding common units. 35 TABLE OF CONTENTS Your liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law and we conduct business in Louisiana and Texas. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. You could be liable for any and all of our obligations as if you were a general partner if: · a court or government agency determined that we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state’s partnership statute; · or your right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace the general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitute “control” of our business. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution to you if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Substituted limited partners are liable for the obligations of the assignor to make contributions to the partnership that are known to the substituted limited partner at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from the partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service or IRS, were to treat us as a corporation or if we were to become subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in the common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. In order to maintain our status as a partnership for United States federal income tax purposes, 90% or more of our gross income in each tax year must be qualifying income under section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code. We have not requested and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to the qualifying nature of the income earned as a result of a purchase of our debt at a discount upon which, if granted, we may rely with respect to such income. There can be no assurance that the IRS will provide such a favorable ruling. However, any income earned as a result of a purchase or our debt at a discount plus any other non-qualifying income we earned in 2008 is less than 10% of our total gross income. Although we do not believe based upon our current operations that we are treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, a change in our business (or a change in current law) could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35% and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to you would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to you. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to the unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. 36 TABLE OF CONTENTS Current law may change so as to cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation. At the federal level, members of Congress have considered substantive changes to the existing U.S. tax laws that would have affected certain publicly traded partnerships. Although the legislation considered would not have appeared to affect our tax treatment, we are unable to predict whether any such change or other proposals will ultimately be enacted. Moreover, any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. At the state level, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. For example, we are required to pay Texas franchise tax at a maximum effective rate of 0.7% of our gross income apportioned to Texas in the prior year. Imposition of any such tax on us by any other state will reduce the cash available for distribution to you. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury regulations. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely affected and the cost of any contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to you. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. You may be required to pay taxes on your share of our income even if you do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders are treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, you may be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on your share of our taxable income even if you receive no cash distributions from us. You may not receive cash distributions from us equal to your share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. 37 TABLE OF CONTENTS Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If you sell your common units, you will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and your tax basis in those common units. Prior distributions to you in excess of the total net taxable income you were allocated for a common unit, which decreased your tax basis in that common unit, will, in effect, become taxable income to you if the common unit is sold at a price greater than your tax basis in that common unit, even if the price you receive is less than your original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder’s share of our non-recourse liabilities, if you sell your units, you may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash you receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-United States persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), other retirement plans and non-United States persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-United States persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate and non-United States persons will be required to file U.S. federal tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If you are a tax-exempt entity or a non-United States person, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our common units. We treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations and may result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to you. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to your tax returns. A unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, he may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. 38 TABLE OF CONTENTS We have adopted certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and the unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our common units. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we will determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our general partner. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and the general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and certain of our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders’ sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated our partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same interest are counted only once. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and our unitholders could receive two Schedules K-1) for one fiscal year and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead, we would be treated as a new partnership for tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine in a timely manner that a termination occurred. You may be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where you do not live as a result of investing in our common units. In addition to federal income taxes, you may be subject to return filing requirements and other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property, now or in the future, even if you do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Further, you may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We own assets and conduct business in the States of Texas and Louisiana. Currently, Texas does not impose a personal income tax on individuals. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or do business in states that impose a personal income tax. It is your responsibility to file all U.S. federal, state and local tax returns. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 39 TABLE OF CONTENTS 