Item 1A. Risk Factors. As indicated above in this Annual Report under “Forward-Looking Statements,” those statements in this Annual Report that are not historical facts may be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Investing in our common stock involves a number of significant risks. The risks set out below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or not presently deemed material by us might also impair our operations and performance. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, our net asset value and the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business and Structure Our financial condition and results of operations will depend on our ability to manage and deploy capital effectively. Our ability to continue to achieve our investment objective will depend on our ability to effectively manage and deploy our capital, which will depend, in turn, on our management team’s ability to continue to identify, evaluate, invest in, and monitor companies that meet our investment criteria. We cannot assure you that we will continue to achieve our investment objective. Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis will be largely a function of our management team’s handling of the investment process, its ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient services and our access to investments offering acceptable terms. In addition to monitoring the performance of our existing investments, members of our management team and our investment professionals may also be called upon to provide managerial assistance to our portfolio companies. These demands on their time may distract them or slow the rate of investment. Even if we are able to grow and build upon our investment operations in a manner commensurate with the increased capital available to us as a result of recent offerings of our common stock, any failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The results of our operations will depend on many factors, including the availability of opportunities for investment, readily accessible short and long-term funding alternatives in the financial markets and economic conditions. Furthermore, if we cannot successfully operate our business or implement our investment policies and strategies as described in this Annual Report, it could negatively impact our ability to pay distributions and cause you to lose part or all of your investment. Recent market conditions have impacted debt and equity capital markets in the United States, and we do not know if these conditions will improve in the near future. Beginning in the third quarter of 2007, global credit and other financial markets suffered substantial stress, volatility, illiquidity and disruption. These forces reached extraordinary levels in late 2008, resulting in the bankruptcy of, the acquisition of, or government intervention in the affairs of several major domestic and international financial institutions. In particular, the financial services sector was negatively impacted by significant write-offs as the value of the assets held by financial firms declined, impairing their capital positions and abilities to lend and invest. We believe that such value declines were exacerbated by widespread forced liquidations as leveraged holders of financial assets, faced with declining prices, were compelled to sell to meet margin requirements and maintain compliance with applicable capital standards. Such forced liquidations also impaired or eliminated many investors and investment vehicles, leading to a decline in the supply of capital for investment and depressed pricing levels for many assets. These events significantly diminished overall confidence in the debt and equity markets, engendered unprecedented declines in the values of certain assets, and caused extreme economic uncertainty. Since March 2009, there have been signs that the global credit and other financial market conditions have improved as stability has increased throughout the international financial system and many public stock market indices have experienced positive total returns. Concentrated policy initiatives undertaken by central banks and 28 Table of Contents governments appear to have curtailed the incidence of large-scale failures within the global financial system. Concurrently, investor confidence, financial indicators, capital markets activity and asset prices have shown signs of marked improvement since the second quarter of 2009. However, while financial conditions have improved, domestic unemployment rates remain high, and economic activity remains subdued. In addition, there are early signs that many businesses and industries are experiencing inflationary pressures, both internationally and domestically. These conditions could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. These events could prevent us from increasing our investment originations and negatively impact our operating results. Our investment portfolio is and will continue to be recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors and, as a result, there is and will continue to be uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments. Under the 1940 Act, we are required to carry our portfolio investments at market value or, if there is no readily available market value, at fair value as determined by our Board of Directors. Typically there is not a public market for the securities of the privately held companies in which we have invested and will generally continue to invest. As a result, we value these securities quarterly at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors based on input from management, a third party independent valuation firm and our audit committee. The determination of fair value and consequently, the amount of unrealized gains and losses in our portfolio, is to a certain degree subjective and dependent on the judgment of our Board. Certain factors that may be considered in determining the fair value of our investments include the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company’s earnings and its ability to make payments on its indebtedness, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, comparison to comparable publicly-traded companies, discounted cash flows and other relevant factors. Because such valuations, and particularly valuations of private securities and private companies, are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. Due to this uncertainty, our fair value determinations may cause our net asset value on a given date to materially understate or overstate the value that we may ultimately realize upon the sale or disposition of one or more of our investments. As a result, investors purchasing our common stock based on an overstated net asset value would pay a higher price than the value of our investments might warrant. Conversely, investors selling shares during a period in which the net asset value understates the value of our investments will receive a lower price for their shares than the value of our investments might warrant. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. A large number of entities compete with us to make the types of investments that we make in target companies. We compete for investments with investment funds (including private equity funds and mezzanine funds) and other BDCs, as well as traditional financial services companies such as commercial and investment banks and other sources of funding. Moreover, alternative investment vehicles, such as hedge funds, also invest in lower middle market companies. As a result, competition for investment opportunities in lower middle market companies is intense. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of capital and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments than we have. These characteristics could allow our competitors to consider a wider variety of investments, establish more relationships and offer better pricing and more flexible structuring than we are able to do. We may lose investment opportunities if we do not match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure. If we are forced to match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure, we may not be able to achieve acceptable returns on our investments or may bear substantial risk of capital loss. A significant part of our competitive advantage stems from the fact that the market for investments in lower middle market companies is underserved by traditional commercial banks and other financing sources. A significant increase in the number and/or the size of our competitors in this target market 29 Table of Contents could force us to accept less attractive investment terms. Furthermore, many of our competitors have greater experience operating under, or are not subject to, the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a BDC. We are dependent upon our executives for our future success. We depend on the members of our senior management team, particularly executive officers Garland S. Tucker, III, Brent P.W. Burgess and Steven C. Lilly, for the final selection, structuring, closing and monitoring of our investments. These executive officers have critical industry experience and relationships that we rely on to implement our business plan. If we lose the services of these individuals, we may not be able to operate our business as we expect, and our ability to compete could be harmed, which could cause our operating results to suffer. Effective February 21, 2009, Messrs. Tucker, Burgess and Lilly are no longer employed by us pursuant to employment agreements. Rather, each is currently employed by us on an at-will basis. Our success depends on attracting and retaining qualified personnel in a competitive environment. We experience competition in attracting and retaining qualified personnel, particularly investment professionals, and we may be unable to maintain or grow our business if we cannot attract and retain such personnel. Our ability to attract and retain personnel with the requisite credentials, experience and skills depends on several factors including, but not limited to, our ability to offer competitive wages, benefits and professional growth opportunities. Many of the entities, including investment funds (such as private equity funds and mezzanine funds) and traditional financial services companies, with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have. The competitive environment for qualified personnel may require us to take certain measures to ensure that we are able to attract and retain experienced personnel. Such measures may include increasing the attractiveness of our overall compensation packages, altering the structure of our compensation packages through the use of additional forms of compensation, or other steps. The inability to attract and retain experienced personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business model depends to a significant extent upon strong referral relationships, and our inability to maintain or develop these relationships, as well as the failure of these relationships to generate investment opportunities, could adversely affect our business. We expect that members of our management team will maintain their relationships with financial institutions, private equity and other non-bank investors, investment bankers, commercial bankers, attorneys, accountants and consultants, and we will rely to a significant extent upon these relationships to provide us with potential investment opportunities. If our management team fails to maintain its existing relationships or develop new relationships with other sponsors or sources of investment opportunities, we will not be able to grow our investment portfolio. In addition, individuals with whom members of our management team have relationships are not obligated to provide us with investment opportunities, and, therefore, there is no assurance that such relationships will generate investment opportunities for us. We have limited operating history as a business development company and as a regulated investment company, which may impair your ability to assess our prospects. The 1940 Act imposes numerous constraints on the operations of BDCs. Prior to the consummation of our initial public offering in February 2007, we had not operated, and our management team had no experience operating, as a BDC under the 1940 Act or as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code. As a result, we have limited operating results under these regulatory frameworks that can demonstrate to you either their effect on our business or our ability to manage our business under these frameworks. Our management team’s limited experience in managing a portfolio of assets under such constraints may hinder our ability to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities and, as a result, achieve our investment objective. Furthermore, any failure to comply with the requirements imposed on BDCs by the 1940 Act could cause the SEC to 30 Table of Contents bring an enforcement action against us. If we do not remain a BDC, we might be regulated as a closed-end investment company under the 1940 Act, which would further decrease our operating flexibility. Regulations governing our operation as a business development company will affect our ability to, and the way in which we raise additional capital. Our business will require capital to operate and grow. We may acquire such additional capital from the following sources: Senior Securities. Currently we, through our SBIC subsidiaries, issue debt securities guaranteed by the SBA. In the future, we may issue debt securities or preferred stock and/or borrow money from banks or other financial institutions, which we refer to collectively as senior securities. As a result of issuing senior securities, we will be exposed to additional risks, including, but not limited to, the following: • Under the provisions of the 1940 Act, we are permitted, as a BDC, to issue senior securities only in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after each issuance of senior securities. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this test. If that happens, we may be required to sell a portion of our investments and, depending on the nature of our leverage, repay a portion of our debt at a time when such sales and/or repayments may be disadvantageous. • Any amounts that we use to service our debt or make payments on preferred stock will not be available for distributions to our common stockholders. • It is likely that any senior securities or other indebtedness we issue will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. Additionally, some of these securities or other indebtedness may be rated by rating agencies, and in obtaining a rating for such securities and other indebtedness, we may be required to abide by operating and investment guidelines that further restrict operating and financial flexibility. • We and, indirectly, our stockholders will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities and other indebtedness. • Preferred stock or any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock, including separate voting rights and could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control to the detriment of the holders of our common stock. Additional Common Stock. We are not generally able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below net asset value per share. We may, however, sell our common stock, warrants, options or rights to acquire our common stock, at a price below the current net asset value of the common stock if our Board of Directors determines that such sale is in the best interests of our stockholders, and our stockholders approve such sale. At our Annual Stockholders Meeting on May 5, 2010, our stockholders voted to allow us to issue common stock at a price below net asset value per share for a period of one year ending on the earlier of May 4, 2011 or the date of our 2011 annual meeting of stockholders. Our stockholders did not specify a maximum discount below net asset value at which we are able to issue our common stock; however, we do not intend to issue shares of our common stock below net asset value unless our Board of Directors determines that it would be in our stockholders’ best interests to do so. In any such case, however, the price at which our common stock are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price which, in the determination of our Board of Directors, closely approximates the market value of such securities (less any distributing commission or discount). We may also make rights offerings to our stockholders at prices per share less than the net asset value per share, subject to applicable requirements of the 1940 Act. If we raise additional funds by issuing more common stock or senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common stock, the percentage ownership of our stockholders at that time would decrease, and they may experience dilution. Moreover, we can offer no assurance that we will be able to issue and sell additional equity securities in the future, on favorable terms or at all. 31 Table of Contents Recent healthcare reform legislation may affect our revenue and financial condition. On March 23, 2010, the President of the United States signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 and on March 30, 2010, the President signed into law the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, which in part modified the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Together, the two Acts serve as the primary vehicle for comprehensive health care reform in the United States. The Acts are intended to reduce the number of individuals in the United States without health insurance and effect significant other changes to the ways in which health care is organized, delivered and reimbursed. The complexities and ramifications of the new legislation are significant, and will be implemented in a phased approach beginning in 2010 and concluding in 2018. At this time, the effects of health care reform and its impact on our operations and on the business, revenues and financial condition of our portfolio companies are not yet known. Accordingly, the reform could adversely affect the cost of providing healthcare coverage generally and could adversely affect the financial success of both the portfolio companies in which we invest and us. The impact of recent financial reform legislation on us is uncertain. In light of current conditions in the U.S. and global financial markets and the U.S. and global economy, legislators, the presidential administration and regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Reform Act became effective on July 21, 2010, although many provisions of the Dodd-Frank Reform Act have delayed effectiveness or will not become effective until the relevant federal agencies issue new rules to implement the Dodd-Frank Reform Act. Nevertheless, the Dodd-Frank Reform Act may have a material adverse impact on the financial services industry as a whole and on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Accordingly, we cannot predict the effect the Dodd-Frank Reform Act or its implementing regulations will have on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our SBIC subsidiaries are licensed by the SBA, and therefore subject to SBA regulations. Our SBIC subsidiaries are licensed to act as SBICs and are regulated by the SBA. Pursuant to the SBA regulations, an SBIC can provide financing in the form of debt and/or equity to “eligible” small businesses. The SBA also places certain limitations on the financing terms of investments by SBICs in portfolio companies and prohibits SBICs from providing funds for certain purposes or to businesses in a few prohibited industries. Compliance with SBA requirements may cause our SBIC subsidiaries, and us, as their parent, to forego attractive investment opportunities that are not permitted under SBA regulations. Further, the SBA regulations require that a licensed SBIC be periodically examined and audited by the SBA to determine its compliance with the relevant SBA regulations. The SBA prohibits, without prior SBA approval, a “change of control” of an SBIC or transfers that would result in any person (or a group of persons acting in concert) owning 10.0% or more of a class of capital stock of a licensed SBIC. If our SBIC subsidiaries fail to comply with applicable SBA regulations, the SBA could, depending on the severity of the violation, limit or prohibit our SBIC subsidiaries’ use of debentures, declare outstanding debentures immediately due and payable, and/or limit our SBIC subsidiaries from making new investments. In addition, the SBA can remove the general partner of our SBIC subsidiaries and have a receiver appointed, or revoke or suspend a license for willful or repeated violation of, or willful or repeated failure to observe, any provision of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 or any rule or regulation promulgated thereunder. Such actions by the SBA would, in turn, negatively affect us because our SBIC subsidiaries are wholly owned. Because we borrow money, the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested in us is magnified and may increase the risk of investing in us. Borrowings, also known as leverage, magnify the potential for gain or loss on invested equity capital. As we use leverage to partially finance our investments, our stockholders experience increased risks associated with investing in our common stock. Our SBIC subsidiaries issue debt securities guaranteed by the SBA and sold in the capital markets. As a result of its guarantee of the debt securities, the SBA has fixed dollar claims 32 Table of Contents on the assets of our SBIC subsidiaries that are superior to the claims of our common stockholders. We may also borrow from banks and other lenders in the future. If the value of our assets increases, then leveraging would cause the net asset value attributable to our common stock to increase more sharply than it would have had we not leveraged. Conversely, if the value of our assets decreases, leveraging would cause net asset value to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged. Similarly, any increase in our income in excess of interest payable on the borrowed funds would cause our net investment income to increase more than it would without the leverage, while any decrease in our income would cause our net investment income to decline more sharply than it would have had we not borrowed. Such a decline could negatively affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Leverage is generally considered a speculative investment technique. As a BDC, we are generally required to meet a coverage ratio of total assets to total borrowings and other senior securities, which include all of our borrowings (other than SBA leverage) and any preferred stock we may issue in the future, of at least 200%. If this ratio declines below 200%, we may not be able to incur additional debt and may need to sell a portion of our investments to repay some debt when it is disadvantageous to do so, and we may not be able to make distributions. Currently, we do not have senior securities outstanding and therefore are not limited by this ratio. On December 31, 2010, we had $202.5 million of outstanding indebtedness guaranteed by the SBA, which had a weighted average annualized interest cost of 3.95%. The calculation of this weighted average interest rate includes i) the interim rates charged on $63.4 million of SBA guaranteed debentures that have not yet been pooled and ii) the fixed rates charged on $139.1 million of pooled SBA guaranteed debentures. The unpooled SBA-guaranteed debentures have a weighted average interim interest rate of 1.00% and the pooled SBA guaranteed debentures have a weighted average interest rate of 5.29%. Our ability to achieve our investment objective may depend in part on our ability to achieve additional leverage on favorable terms by issuing debentures guaranteed by the SBA or by borrowing from banks, or insurance companies, and there can be no assurance that such additional leverage can in fact be achieved. SBA regulations limit the outstanding dollar amount of SBA-guaranteed debentures that may be issued by an SBIC or group of SBICs under common control. The SBA regulations currently limit the dollar amount of SBA-guaranteed debentures that can be issued by any one SBIC to $150.0 million or to a group of SBICs under common control to $225.0 million. Moreover, an SBIC may not borrow an amount in excess of three times its regulatory capital. As of December 31, 2010, the Fund had issued the maximum $150.0 million of SBA guaranteed debentures. As of December 31, 2010, Fund II had issued $53.4 million in face amount of SBA guaranteed debentures and has a leverage commitment from the SBA to issue the remaining $21.6 million of the $75.0 million statutory maximum of SBA guaranteed debentures. While we cannot presently predict whether or not we will borrow the maximum permitted amount, if we reach the maximum dollar amount of SBA-guaranteed debentures permitted, and thereafter require additional capital, our cost of capital may increase, and there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms. Moreover, the current status of our SBIC subsidiaries as SBICs does not automatically assure that our SBIC subsidiaries will continue to receive SBA-guaranteed debenture funding. Receipt of SBA leverage funding is dependent upon our SBIC subsidiaries continuing to be in compliance with SBA regulations and policies and available SBA funding. The amount of SBA leverage funding available to SBICs is dependent upon annual Congressional authorizations and in the future may be subject to annual Congressional appropriations. There can be no assurance that there will be sufficient debenture funding available at the times desired by our SBIC subsidiaries. The debentures guaranteed by the SBA have a maturity of ten years and require semi-annual payments of interest. Our SBIC subsidiaries will need to generate sufficient cash flow to make required interest payments on the debentures. If our SBIC subsidiaries are unable to meet their financial obligations under the debentures, the SBA, as a creditor, will have a superior claim to our SBIC subsidiaries’ assets over our stockholders in the event we liquidate our SBIC subsidiaries or the SBA exercises its remedies under such debentures as the result 33 Table of Contents of a default by us. In addition, the SBA must approve our independent directors before our SBIC subsidiaries will be permitted to issue additional debentures guaranteed by the SBA. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly results. We could experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, including our ability or inability to make investments in companies that meet our investment criteria, the interest rate payable on the debt securities we acquire, the level of our expenses, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. Our ability to enter into and exit investment transactions with our affiliates will be restricted. Except in those instances where we have received prior exemptive relief from the SEC, we will be prohibited under the 1940 Act from knowingly participating in certain transactions with our affiliates without the prior approval of our independent directors. Any person that owns, directly or indirectly, 5.0% or more of our outstanding voting securities is deemed our affiliate for purposes of the 1940 Act and we are generally prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to such affiliate, absent the prior approval of our independent directors. The 1940 Act also prohibits “joint” transactions with an affiliate, which could include investments in the same portfolio company (whether at the same or different times), without prior approval of our independent directors. If a person acquires more than 25.0% of our voting securities, we will be prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to such person, or entering into joint transactions with such person, absent the prior approval of the SEC. These restrictions could limit or prohibit us from making certain attractive investments that we might otherwise make absent such restrictions. Our Board of Directors may change our operating policies and strategies without prior notice or stockholder approval, the effects of which may be adverse. Our Board of Directors has the authority to modify or waive our current operating policies and strategies without prior notice and without stockholder approval. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current operating policies, investment criteria and strategies would have on our business, net asset value, operating results and value of our stock. However, the effects might be adverse, which could negatively impact our ability to pay you distributions and cause you to lose all or part of your investment. Moreover, we will have significant flexibility in investing the net proceeds from any future offerings of our common stock and may use the net proceeds from such offerings in ways with which investors may not agree or for purposes other than those contemplated at the time of the offering. We will be subject to corporate-level U.S. federal income tax if we are unable to maintain our status as a regulated investment company under Subchapter M of the Code, which will adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have elected to be treated as a RIC under the Code, which generally will allow us to avoid being subject to corporate-level U.S. federal income tax. To obtain and maintain RIC tax treatment under the Code, we must meet the following annual distribution, income source and asset diversification requirements: • The annual distribution requirement for a RIC will be satisfied if we distribute to our stockholders on an annual basis at least 90.0% of our net ordinary income and net short-term capital gain in excess of net long-term capital loss, if any. We will be subject to a 4.0% nondeductible U.S. federal excise tax, however, to the extent that we do not satisfy certain additional minimum distribution requirements on a calendar year basis. Because we use debt financing, we are subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act and may in the future become subject to certain financial covenants under loan and credit agreements that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to satisfy the annual distribution requirement. If we are unable to obtain cash 34 Table of Contents from other sources, we could fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment and thus become subject to corporate-level U.S. federal income tax. • The income source requirement will be satisfied if we obtain at least 90.0% of our income for each year from distributions, interest, gains from the sale of stock or securities or similar sources. • The asset diversification requirement will be satisfied if we meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each quarter of our taxable year. To satisfy this requirement, at least 50.0% of the value of our assets must consist of cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities, securities of other RICs, and other acceptable securities; and no more than 25.0% of the value of our assets can be invested in the securities, other than U.S. government securities or securities of other RICs, of one issuer, of two or more issuers that are controlled, as determined under applicable Code rules, by us and that are engaged in the same or similar or related trades or businesses or of certain “qualified publicly traded partnerships.” Failure to meet these requirements may result in our having to dispose of certain investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of RIC status. Because most of our investments will be in private companies, and therefore will be relatively illiquid, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and could result in substantial losses. If we fail to qualify for or maintain RIC tax treatment for any reason and are subject to corporate-level U.S. federal income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution and the amount of our distributions. We may also be subject to certain U.S. federal excise taxes, as well as state, local and foreign taxes. We may not be able to pay you distributions, our distributions may not grow over time, and a portion of distributions paid to you may be a return of capital. We intend to pay quarterly distributions to our stockholders out of assets legally available for distribution. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results that will allow us to make a specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. Our ability to pay distributions might be harmed by, among other things, the risk factors described in this Annual Report. In addition, the inability to satisfy the asset coverage test applicable to us as a BDC could, in the future, limit our ability to pay distributions. All distributions will be paid at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our RIC status, compliance with applicable BDC regulations, our SBIC subsidiaries’ compliance with applicable SBIC regulations and such other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant from time to time. We cannot assure you that we will pay distributions to our stockholders in the future. When we make quarterly distributions, we will be required to determine the extent to which such distributions are paid out of current or accumulated earnings and profits, recognized capital gain or capital. To the extent there is a return of capital, investors will be required to reduce their basis in our stock for federal income tax purposes. We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, we may be required to recognize taxable income in circumstances in which we do not receive a corresponding payment in cash. For example, if we hold debt obligations that are treated under applicable tax rules as having original issue discount (such as debt instruments with PIK interest or, in certain cases, increasing interest rates or debt instruments that were issued with warrants), we must include in income each year a portion of the original issue discount that accrues over the life of the obligation, regardless of whether cash representing such income is received by us in the same taxable year. We may also have to include in income other amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as deferred loan origination fees that are paid after origination of the loan or are paid in non-cash compensation such as warrants or stock. We anticipate that a portion of our income may constitute original issue discount or other income required to be included in taxable income prior to receipt of cash. Further, we may elect to amortize market discounts and include such amounts in our taxable income in the current year, instead of upon 35 Table of Contents disposition, as an election not to do so would limit our ability to deduct interest expenses for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Because any original issue discount or other amounts accrued will be included in our investment company taxable income for the year of the accrual, we may be required to make a distribution to our stockholders in order to satisfy the annual distribution requirement, even though we will not have received any corresponding cash amount. As a result, we may have difficulty meeting the annual distribution requirement necessary to obtain and maintain RIC tax treatment under the Code. We may have to sell some of our investments at times and/or at prices we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or forgo new investment opportunities for this purpose. If we are not able to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment and thus become subject to corporate-level U.S. federal income tax. For additional discussion regarding the tax implications of a RIC, see “Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations — Taxation as a RIC. You may receive shares of our common stock as distributions which could result in adverse tax consequences to you. In order to satisfy the annual distribution requirement applicable to RICs, we have the ability to declare a large portion of a distribution in shares of our common stock instead of in cash. As long as a portion of such distribution is paid in cash (which portion can be as low as 10% for our taxable years ending on or before December 31, 2011) and certain requirements are met, the entire distribution to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits would be a dividend for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result, a stockholder would be taxed on the entire distribution in the same manner as a cash distribution, even though a portion of the distribution was paid in shares of our common stock. You may have current tax liability on distributions you elect to reinvest in our common stock but would not receive cash from such distributions to pay such tax liability. If you participate in our distribution reinvestment plan, you will be deemed to have received, and for U.S. federal income tax purposes will be taxed on, the amount reinvested in our common stock to the extent the amount reinvested was not a tax-free return of capital. As a result, unless you are a tax-exempt entity, you may have to use funds from other sources to pay your tax liability on the value of our common stock received from the distribution. Our SBIC subsidiaries, as SBICs, may be unable to make distributions to us that may harm our ability to meet regulated investment company requirements, which could result in the imposition of an entity-level tax. In order for us to continue to qualify as a RIC, we will be required to distribute on an annual basis substantially all of our taxable income, including income from our subsidiaries, including our SBIC subsidiaries. As the majority of our investments are generally held by our SBIC subsidiaries, we will be substantially dependent on our SBIC subsidiaries for cash distributions to enable us to meet the RIC distribution requirements. Our SBIC subsidiaries may be limited by the Small Business Investment Act of 1958, and SBA regulations governing SBICs, from making certain distributions to us that may be necessary to enable us to qualify as a RIC. We may have to request a waiver of the SBA’s restrictions for our SBIC subsidiaries to make certain distributions to maintain our status as a RIC. We cannot assure you that the SBA will grant such waiver and if our SBIC subsidiaries are unable to obtain a waiver, compliance with the SBA regulations may result in loss of RIC status and a consequent imposition of corporate-level U.S. federal income tax on us. 36 Table of Contents Because we intend to distribute substantially all of our income to our stockholders to maintain our status as a regulated investment company, we will continue to need additional capital to finance our growth, and regulations governing our operation as a business development company will affect our ability to, and the way in which we, raise additional capital. In order to satisfy the requirements applicable to a RIC and to avoid payment of U.S. federal excise tax, we intend to distribute to our stockholders substantially all of our net ordinary income and net capital gain income except for certain net long-term capital gains recognized after we became a RIC, some or all of which we may retain, pay applicable U.S. federal income taxes with respect thereto, and elect to treat as deemed distributions to our stockholders. As a BDC, we generally are required to meet a coverage ratio of total assets to total senior securities, which includes all of our borrowings (other than SBA leverage) and any preferred stock we may issue in the future, of at least 200.0%. This requirement limits the amount that we may borrow. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this test. If that happens, we may be required to sell a portion of our investments or sell additional common stock and, depending on the nature of our leverage, to repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous. In addition, issuance of additional securities could dilute the percentage ownership of our current stockholders in us. While we expect to be able to borrow and to issue additional debt and equity securities, we cannot assure you that debt and equity financing will be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. If additional funds are not available to us, we could be forced to curtail or cease new investment activities, and our net asset value could decline. In addition, as a BDC, we generally are not permitted to issue equity securities priced below net asset value without stockholder approval. At our Annual Stockholders Meeting on May 5, 2010, our stockholders voted to allow us to issue common stock at a price below net asset value per share for a period of one year ending on the earlier of May 4, 2011 or the date of our 2011 annual meeting of stockholders. Our stockholders did not specify a maximum discount below net asset value at which we are able to issue our common stock; however, we do not intend to issue shares of our common stock below net asset value unless our Board of Directors determines that it would be in our stockholders’ best interests to do so. Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations may adversely affect our business or cause us to alter our business strategy. We, our SBIC subsidiaries and our portfolio companies will be subject to regulation at the local, state and federal level. New legislation may be enacted or new interpretations, rulings or regulations could be adopted, including those governing the types of investments we are permitted to make, any of which could harm us and our stockholders, potentially with retroactive effect. In addition, any change to the SBA’s current debenture program could have a significant impact on our ability to obtain lower-cost leverage and, therefore, our competitive advantage over other finance companies. Additionally, any changes to the laws and regulations governing our operations relating to permitted investments may cause us to alter our investment strategy in order to avail ourselves of new or different opportunities. Such changes could result in material differences to the strategies and plans set forth in this Annual Report and may result in our investment focus shifting from the areas of expertise of our management team to other types of investments in which our management team may have less expertise or little or no experience. Thus, any such changes, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of your investment. Efforts to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will involve significant expenditures, and non-compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may adversely affect us. We are subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC. Among other requirements, under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and rules and regulations of the SEC thereunder, our management is required to report on our internal controls over financial reporting. We are required to review on an annual basis our internal controls over financial reporting, and on a quarterly and annual basis to evaluate and disclose significant changes in our internal controls over financial reporting. We have and expect to continue to incur significant expenses related to compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley 37 Table of Contents Act, which will negatively impact our financial performance and our ability to make distributions. In addition, this process results in a diversion of management’s time and attention. Since we have a limited operating history as a company subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we cannot assure you that our internal controls over financial reporting will continue to be effective. In the event that we are unable to maintain compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules, we may be adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Investments Our investments in portfolio companies may be risky, and we could lose all or part of our investment. Investing in lower middle market companies involves a number of significant risks. Among other things, these companies: • may have limited financial resources to meet future capital needs and thus may be unable to grow or meet their obligations under their debt instruments that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of us realizing any guarantees from subsidiaries or affiliates of our portfolio companies that we may have obtained in connection with our investment, as well as a corresponding decrease in the value of the equity components of our investments; • may have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines, smaller market shares and/or more significant customer concentration than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns; • are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our portfolio company and, in turn, on us; • generally have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position; and • generally have less publicly available information about their businesses, operations and financial condition. We rely on the ability of our management team and investment professionals to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential returns from investing in these companies. If we are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, we may not make a fully informed investment decision, and may lose all or part of our investment. In addition, in the course of providing significant managerial assistance to certain of our portfolio companies, certain of our officers and directors may serve as directors on the boards of such companies. To the extent that litigation arises out of our investments in these companies, our officers and directors may be named as defendants in such litigation, which could result in an expenditure of funds (through our indemnification of such officers and directors) and the diversion of management time and resources. The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business. We invest, and will continue to invest in companies whose securities are not publicly traded, and whose securities will be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or will otherwise be less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of these investments may make it difficult for us to sell these investments when desired. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we had previously recorded these investments. As a result, we do not expect to achieve liquidity in our investments in the near-term. Our investments are usually subject to contractual or legal restrictions on resale or are otherwise illiquid because there is usually no established trading market for such investments. The illiquidity of most of our investments may make it difficult for us to dispose of them at a favorable price, and, as a result, we may suffer losses. 38 Table of Contents We are a non-diversified investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act, and therefore we are not limited with respect to the proportion of our assets that may be invested in securities of a single issuer. We are classified as a non-diversified investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act, which means that we are not limited by the 1940 Act with respect to the proportion of our assets that we may invest in securities of a single issuer. To the extent that we assume large positions in the securities of a small number of issuers, our net asset value may fluctuate to a greater extent than that of a diversified investment company as a result of changes in the financial condition or the market’s assessment of the issuer. We may also be more susceptible to any single economic or regulatory occurrence than a diversified investment company. Beyond our RIC asset diversification requirements and certain SBA diversification requirements for our investments held by our two wholly-owned SBIC subsidiaries, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification, and our investments could be concentrated in relatively few portfolio companies. We may not have the funds or ability to make additional investments in our portfolio companies. We may not have the funds or ability to make additional investments in our portfolio companies. After our initial investment in a portfolio company, we may be called upon from time to time to provide additional funds to such company or have the opportunity to increase our investment through the exercise of a warrant to purchase common stock. There is no assurance that we will make, or will have sufficient funds to make, follow-on investments. Any decisions not to make a follow-on investment or any inability on our part to make such an investment may have a negative impact on a portfolio company in need of such an investment, may result in a missed opportunity for us to increase our participation in a successful operation or may reduce the expected yield on the investment. Our portfolio companies may incur debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies. We invest primarily in senior secured debt and subordinated notes as well as equity issued by lower middle market companies. Our portfolio companies may have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, the debt in which we invest. By their terms, such debt instruments may entitle the holders to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments with respect to the debt instruments in which we invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution. After repaying such senior creditors, such portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of debt ranking equally with debt instruments in which we invest, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. There may be circumstances where our debt investments could be subordinated to claims of other creditors or we could be subject to lender liability claims. Even though we may have structured certain of our investments as senior loans, if one of our portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, depending on the facts and circumstances and based upon principles of equitable subordination as defined by existing case law, a bankruptcy court could subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of other creditors and transfer any lien securing such subordinated claim to the bankruptcy estate. The principles of equitable subordination defined by case law have generally indicated that a claim may be subordinated only if its holder is guilty of misconduct or where the senior loan is re-characterized as an equity investment and the senior lender has actually provided significant managerial assistance to the bankrupt debtor. We may also be subject to lender liability claims for actions taken by us with respect to a borrower’s business or instances where we exercise control over the borrower. It is possible that we could become subject to a lender’s liability claim, including as a result of actions taken in rendering significant 39 Table of Contents managerial assistance or actions to compel and collect payments from the borrower outside the ordinary course of business. Second priority liens on collateral securing loans that we make to our portfolio companies may be subject to control by senior creditors with first priority liens. If there is a default, the value of the collateral may not be sufficient to repay in full both the first priority creditors and us. Certain loans that we make are secured by a second priority security interest in the same collateral pledged by a portfolio company to secure senior debt owed by the portfolio company to commercial banks or other traditional lenders. Often the senior lender has procured covenants from the portfolio company prohibiting the incurrence of additional secured debt without the senior lender’s consent. Prior to and as a condition of permitting the portfolio company to borrow money from us secured by the same collateral pledged to the senior lender, the senior lender will require assurances that it will control the disposition of any collateral in the event of bankruptcy or other default. In many such cases, the senior lender will require us to enter into an “intercreditor agreement” prior to permitting the portfolio company to borrow from us. Typically the intercreditor agreements we are requested to execute expressly subordinate our debt instruments to those held by the senior lender and further provide that the senior lender shall control: (1) the commencement of foreclosure or other proceedings to liquidate and collect on the collateral; (2) the nature, timing and conduct of foreclosure or other collection proceedings; (3) the amendment of any collateral document; (4) the release of the security interests in respect of any collateral; and (5) the waiver of defaults under any security agreement. Because of the control we may cede to senior lenders under intercreditor agreements we may enter, we may be unable to realize the proceeds of any collateral securing some of our loans. Finally, the value of the collateral securing our debt investment will ultimately depend on market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other factors. Therefore, there can be no assurance that the proceeds, if any, from the sale or sales of all of the collateral would be sufficient to satisfy the loan obligations secured by our second priority liens after payment in full of all obligations secured by the senior lender’s first priority liens on the collateral. There is also a risk that such collateral securing our investments may decrease in value over time, may be difficult to sell in a timely manner, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based upon the success of the portfolio company and market conditions. If such proceeds are not sufficient to repay amounts outstanding under the loan obligations secured by our second priority liens, then we, to the extent not repaid from the proceeds of the sale of the collateral, will only have an unsecured claim against the company’s remaining assets, if any. If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets, we could fail to qualify as a business development company or be precluded from investing according to our current business strategy. As a BDC, we may not acquire any assets other than “qualifying assets” unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such acquisition, at least 70.0% of our total assets are qualifying assets. For further detail, see “Regulation of Business Development Companies” included in Item 1 of Part I of this Annual report on Form 10-K. We believe that substantially all of our investments are qualifying assets. However, we may be precluded from investing in what we believe are attractive investments if such investments are not qualifying assets for purposes of the 1940 Act. If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets, we could lose our status as a BDC, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, these rules could prevent us from making follow-on investments in existing portfolio companies (which could result in the dilution of our position). We are a non-diversified investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act, and therefore we are not limited with respect to the proportion of our assets that may be invested in securities of a single issuer. We are classified as a non-diversified investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act, which means that we are not limited by the 1940 Act with respect to the proportion of our assets that we may invest 40 Table of Contents in securities of a single issuer. To the extent that we assume large positions in the securities of a small number of issuers, our net asset value may fluctuate to a greater extent than that of a diversified investment company as a result of changes in the financial condition or the market’s assessment of the issuer. We may also be more susceptible to any single economic or regulatory occurrence than a diversified investment company. Beyond our regulated investment company asset diversification requirements and certain SBA diversification requirements for our investments held by our two wholly-owned SBIC subsidiaries, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification, and our investments could be concentrated in relatively few portfolio companies. We generally will not control our portfolio companies. We do not, and do not expect to, control most of our portfolio companies, even though we may have board representation or board observation rights, and our debt agreements may contain certain restrictive covenants. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company in which we invest may make business decisions with which we disagree and the management of such company, as representatives of the holders of their common equity, may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests as debt investors. Due to the lack of liquidity for our investments in non-traded companies, we may not be able to dispose of our interests in our portfolio companies as readily as we would like or at an appropriate valuation. As a result, a portfolio company may make decisions that could decrease the value of our portfolio holdings. Economic recessions or downturns could impair our portfolio companies and harm our operating results. Beginning in the third quarter of 2007, global credit and other financial markets suffered substantial stress, volatility, illiquidity and disruption. These forces reached extraordinary levels in late 2008, resulting in the bankruptcy of, the acquisition of, or government intervention in the affairs of several major domestic and international financial institutions. In particular, the financial services sector was negatively impacted by significant write-offs as the value of the assets held by financial firms declined, impairing their capital positions and abilities to lend and invest. We believe that such value declines were exacerbated by widespread forced liquidations as leveraged holders of financial assets, faced with declining prices, were compelled to sell to meet margin requirements and maintain compliance with applicable capital standards. Such forced liquidations also impaired or eliminated many investors and investment vehicles, leading to a decline in the supply of capital for investment and depressed pricing levels for many assets. These events significantly diminished overall confidence in the debt and equity markets, engendered unprecedented declines in the values of certain assets, and caused extreme economic uncertainty. Since March 2009, there have been signs that the global credit and other financial market conditions have improved as stability has increased throughout the international financial system and many public stock market indices have experienced positive total returns. Concentrated policy initiatives undertaken by central banks and governments appear to have curtailed the incidence of large-scale failures within the global financial system. Concurrently, investor confidence, financial indicators, capital markets activity and asset prices have shown signs of marked improvement since the second quarter of 2009. However, while financial conditions have improved, domestic unemployment rates remain high, and economic activity remains subdued. In addition, there are early signs that many businesses and industries are experiencing inflationary pressures, both internationally and domestically. Many of our current and/or future portfolio companies may be susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions and may be unable to repay our debt investments during these periods. Therefore, our non- performing assets are likely to increase, and the value of our portfolio is likely to decrease during these periods. Adverse economic conditions may also decrease the value of any collateral securing some of our debt investments and the value of our equity investments. A prolonged economic slowdown or recession may further decrease the value of such collateral and result in losses of value in our portfolio and a decrease in investment income, net investment income, assets, and net worth. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us on terms we deem acceptable. These events could prevent us from increasing investments and harm our operating results. 41 Table of Contents Our financial results may be affected adversely if one or more of our portfolio investments defaults on its loans or fails to perform as we expect. Our portfolio consists primarily of debt and equity investments in privately owned middle-market businesses. Compared to larger publicly owned companies, these middle-market companies may be in a weaker financial position and experience wider variations in their operating results, which may make them more vulnerable to economic downturns. Typically, these companies need more capital to compete; however, their access to capital is limited and their cost of capital is often higher than that of their competitors. Our portfolio companies face intense competition from larger companies with greater financial, technical and marketing resources and their success typically depends on the management talents and efforts of an individual or a small group of persons. The loss of any of their key employees could affect their ability to compete effectively and harm their financial condition. Further, some of these companies conduct business in regulated industries that are susceptible to regulatory changes. These factors could impair the cash flow of our portfolio companies and result in other events, such as bankruptcy. These events could limit a portfolio company’s ability to repay their obligations to us, which may have an adverse effect on the return on, or the recovery of, our investment in these businesses. Deterioration in a borrower’s financial condition and prospects may be accompanied by deterioration in the value of the loan’s collateral. Some of these companies cannot obtain financing from public capital markets or from traditional credit sources, such as commercial banks. Accordingly, loans made to these types of companies pose a higher default risk, than loans made to companies who have access to traditional credit sources. Generally, little, if any, public information is available about such companies. Therefore, we must rely on our employees’ diligence to obtain the information needed to make well-informed investment decisions. If we do not uncover material information about these companies, we may not make a fully informed investment decision, which could, in turn cause us to lose money on our investments. Potential writedowns or losses with respect to portfolio investments existing and to be made in the future could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, dividend level, net asset value and stock price. As of December 31, 2010, the fair value of our non-accrual assets was approximately $9.6 million, which comprised approximately 3.0% of the total fair value of our portfolio. The fair value of these non-accrual assets was less than cost as of December 31, 2010. In addition, as of December 31, 2010, we had, on a fair value basis, approximately $12.0 million of debt investments, or 3.7% of the total fair value of our portfolio, which were current with respect to scheduled interest and principal payments, but which were carried at less than cost. In light of current economic conditions, certain of our portfolio companies may be unable to service our debt investments on a timely basis. These conditions may also decrease the value of collateral securing some of our debt investments, as well as the value of our equity investments. As a result, the number of non-performing assets in our portfolio may increase, and the overall value of our portfolio may decrease, which could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and a decrease in our investment income, net investment income, dividends and assets. Any unrealized losses we experience on our loan portfolio may be an indication of future realized losses, which could reduce our income available for distribution. As a BDC, we are required to carry our investments at market value or, if no market value is ascertainable, at the fair value as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors. Decreases in the market values or fair values of our investments will be recorded as unrealized depreciation. Any unrealized losses in our loan portfolio could be an indication of a portfolio company’s inability to meet its repayment obligations to us with respect to the affected loans. This could result in realized losses in the future and ultimately in reductions of our income available for distribution in future periods. Defaults by our portfolio companies will harm our operating results. A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its secured assets, which 42 Table of Contents could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize a portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations under the debt or equity securities that we hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms, which may include the waiver of certain financial covenants, with a defaulting portfolio company. Prepayments of our debt investments by our portfolio companies could adversely impact our results of operations and reduce our return on equity. We are subject to the risk that the investments we make in our portfolio companies may be repaid prior to maturity. When this occurs, we will generally reinvest these proceeds in temporary investments, pending their future investment in new portfolio companies. These temporary investments will typically have substantially lower yields than the debt being prepaid and we could experience significant delays in reinvesting these amounts. Any future investment in a new portfolio company may also be at lower yields than the debt that was repaid. As a result, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if one or more of our portfolio companies elect to prepay amounts owed to us. Additionally, prepayments could negatively impact our return on equity, which could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. Changes in interest rates may affect our cost of capital and net investment income. Most of our debt investments will bear interest at fixed rates and the value of these investments could be negatively affected by increases in market interest rates. In addition, an increase in interest rates would make it more expensive to use debt to finance our investments. As a result, a significant increase in market interest rates could both reduce the value of our portfolio investments and increase our cost of capital, which would reduce our net investment income. Also, an increase in interest rates available to investors could make an investment in our common stock less attractive if we are not able to increase our distribution rate, a situation which could reduce the value of our common stock. Conversely, a decrease in interest rates may have an adverse impact on our returns by requiring us to seek lower yields on our debt investments and by increasing the risk that our portfolio companies will prepay our debt investments, resulting in the need to redeploy capital at potentially lower rates. We may not realize gains from our equity investments. Certain investments that we have made in the past and may make in the future include warrants or other equity securities. Investments in equity securities involve a number of significant risks, including the risk of further dilution as a result of additional issuances, inability to access additional capital and failure to pay current distributions. Investments in preferred securities involve special risks, such as the risk of deferred distributions, credit risk, illiquidity and limited voting rights. In addition, we may from time to time make non-control, equity co-investments in companies in conjunction with private equity sponsors. Our goal is ultimately to realize gains upon our disposition of such equity interests. However, the equity interests we receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. We also may be unable to realize any value if a portfolio company does not have a liquidity event, such as a sale of the business, recapitalization or public offering, which would allow us to sell the underlying equity interests. We often seek puts or similar rights to give us the right to sell our equity securities back to the portfolio company issuer. We may be unable to exercise these puts rights for the consideration provided in our investment documents if the issuer is in financial distress. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Shares of closed-end investment companies, including business development companies, frequently trade at a discount to their net asset value. Shares of closed-end investment companies, including BDCs, frequently trade at a discount from net asset value. This characteristic of closed-end investment companies and BDCs is separate and distinct from the risk 43 Table of Contents that our net asset value per share may decline. We cannot predict whether our common stock will trade at, above or below net asset value. In addition, if our common stock trades below net asset value, we will generally not be able to issue additional common stock at the market price without first obtaining the approval of our stockholders and our independent directors. At our Annual Stockholders Meeting on May 5, 2010, our stockholders voted to allow us to issue common stock at a price below net asset value per share for a period of one year ending on the earlier of May 4, 2011 or the date of our 2011 annual meeting of stockholders. Our stockholders did not specify a maximum discount below net asset value at which we are able to issue our common stock; however, we do not intend to issue shares of our common stock below net asset value unless our Board of Directors determines that it would be in our stockholders’ best interests to do so. Investing in our common stock may involve an above average degree of risk. The investments we make in accordance with our investment objective may result in a higher amount of risk than alternative investment options and a higher risk of volatility or loss of principal. Our investments in portfolio companies may be highly speculative, and therefore, an investment in our shares may not be suitable for someone with lower risk tolerance. The market price of our common stock may be volatile and fluctuate significantly. Fluctuations in the trading prices of our shares may adversely affect the liquidity of the trading market for our shares and, if we seek to raise capital through future equity financings, our ability to raise such equity capital. The market price and liquidity of the market for our common stock may be significantly affected by numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include: • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of BDCs or other companies in our sector, which are not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies; • changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines, particularly with respect to RICs, BDCs or SBICs; • inability to obtain certain exemptive relief from the SEC; • loss of RIC status or either of our SBIC subsidiaries’ status as an SBIC; • changes in earnings or variations in operating results; • changes in the value of our portfolio of investments; • any shortfall in investment income or net investment income or any increase in losses from levels expected by investors or securities analysts; • loss of a major funding source; • fluctuations in interest rates; • the operating performance of companies comparable to us; • departure of our key personnel; • global or national credit market changes; and • general economic trends and other external factors. As illustrated by recent events in the market for subprime loans, and mortgage securities generally, the market for any security is subject to volatility. The loans and securities purchased by us and issued by us are no exception to this fundamental investment truism that prices will fluctuate, although we lack any material exposure to the subprime and mortgage markets. 44 Table of Contents We may be unable to invest a significant portion of the net proceeds raised in our recent offerings on acceptable terms, which would harm our financial condition and operating results. Delays in investing the net proceeds raised in our recent offerings may cause our performance to be worse than that of other fully invested BDCs or other lenders or investors pursuing comparable investment strategies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify any investments that meet our investment objective or that any investment that we make will produce a positive return. We may be unable to invest the net proceeds from our recent offerings on acceptable terms within the time period that we anticipated or at all, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. We anticipate that, depending on market conditions, it may take a substantial period of time to invest substantially all of the net proceeds of our recent offerings in securities meeting our investment objective. During this period, we have and will continue to invest the net proceeds primarily in cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities, repurchase agreements and high-quality debt instruments maturing in one year or less from the time of investment, which may produce returns that are significantly lower than the returns which we expect to achieve when our portfolio is fully invested in securities meeting our investment objective. As a result, any dividends that we pay during such period may be substantially lower than the dividends that we may be able to pay when our portfolio is fully invested in securities meeting our investment objective. In addition, until such time as the net proceeds from our recent offerings are invested in securities meeting our investment objective, the market price for our common stock may decline. Thus, the return on your investment may be lower than when, if ever, our portfolio is fully invested in securities meeting our investment objective. Recent developments may increase the risks associated with our business and an investment in us. Beginning in the third quarter of 2007, the U.S. economy and financial markets have been experiencing a high level of volatility, disruption and stress, which was exacerbated by the failure of several major financial institutions in the last few months of 2008. In addition, the U.S. economy entered a recession, which was severe and prolonged. Similar conditions have occurred in the financial markets and economies of numerous other countries and could worsen, both in the U.S. and globally. These conditions have raised the level of many of the risks described herein and could have an adverse effect on our portfolio companies and on their results of operations, financial conditions, access to credit and capital. The stress in the credit market and upon banks has led other creditors to tighten credit and the terms of credit. In certain cases, senior lenders to our customers can block payments by our customers in respect of our loans to such customers. In turn, these could have adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations, dividend payments, access to capital, valuation of our assets and our stock price. Notwithstanding recent gains across both the equity and debt markets, these conditions may continue for a prolonged period of time or worsen in the future. If, in the future, we sell common stock at a discount to our net asset value per share, stockholders who do not participate in such sale will experience immediate dilution in an amount that may be material. At our annual meeting of stockholders held on May 5, 2010, our stockholders approved our ability to sell an unlimited number of shares of our common stock at any level of discount from net asset value per share for a period of one year ending on the earlier of May 4, 2011 or the date of our 2011 annual meeting of stockholders. If we issue or sell shares of our common stock at a discount to net asset value, it will pose a risk of dilution to our stockholders. In particular, stockholders who do not purchase additional shares at or below the discounted price in proportion to their current ownership will experience an immediate decrease in net asset value per share (as well as in the aggregate net asset value of their shares if they do not participate at all). These stockholders will also experience a disproportionately greater decrease in their participation in our earnings and assets and their voting power than the increase we experience in our assets, potential earning power and voting interests from such issuances or sale. In addition, such sales may adversely affect the price at which our common stock trades. 45 Table of Contents If a substantial number of shares become available for sale and are sold in a short period of time, the market price of our common stock could decline. As of December 31, 2010, we had 14,928,987 shares of common stock outstanding. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the availability of shares for sale, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock. If this occurs and continues, it could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities should we desire to do so. Provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law and our charter and bylaws could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. The Maryland General Corporation Law and our charter and bylaws contain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or making difficult a change in control of our Company or the removal of our incumbent directors. Specifically, our Board of Directors may adopt resolutions to classify our Board of Directors so that stockholders do not elect every director on an annual basis. Also, our charter provides that a director may be removed only for cause by the vote of at least two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast for the election of directors generally. In addition, our bylaws provide that a special meeting of stockholders may be called by the stockholders only upon the written request of the stockholders entitled to cast at least a majority of all the votes entitled to be cast at the meeting. In addition, subject to the provisions of the 1940 Act, our charter permit our Board of Directors, without stockholder action, to authorize the issuance of shares of stock in one or more classes or series, including preferred stock. Subject to compliance with the 1940 Act, our Board of Directors may, without stockholder action, amend our charter to increase the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have authority to issue. The existence of these provisions, among others, may have a negative impact on the price of our common stock and may discourage third party bids for ownership of our company. These provisions may prevent any premiums being offered to you for shares of our common stock. Terrorist attacks, acts of war or national disasters may affect any market for our common stock, impact the businesses in which we invest and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Terrorist acts, acts of war or national disasters may disrupt our operations, as well as the operations of the businesses in which we invest. Such acts have created, and continue to create, economic and political uncertainties and have contributed to global economic instability. Future terrorist activities, military or security operations, or natural disasters could further weaken the domestic/global economies and create additional uncertainties, which may negatively impact the businesses in which we invest directly or indirectly and, in turn, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Losses from terrorist attacks and natural disasters are generally uninsurable. We could face losses and potential liability if intrusion, viruses or similar disruptions to our technology jeopardize our confidential information or that of users of our technology. Although we have implemented, and will continue to implement, security measures, our technology platform is and will continue to be vulnerable to intrusion, computer viruses or similar disruptive problems caused by transmission from unauthorized users. The misappropriation of proprietary information could expose us to a risk of loss or litigation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 