Item 1A. Risk Factors FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Form 10-K includes statements reflecting assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions or beliefs about future events that are intended as "forward-looking statements." All statements included or incorporated by reference in this annual report, other than statements of historical fact, that address activities, events or developments that we or our management expect, believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. These statements represent our reasonable judgment on the future based on various factors and using numerous assumptions and are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results and financial position to differ materially from those contemplated by the statements. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They use words such as "anticipate," "estimate," "project," "forecast," "plan," "may," "will," "should," "expect" and other words of similar meaning. In particular, these include, but are not limited to, statements relating to the following: •our ability to obtain approval of the Bankruptcy Court with respect to the Debtor Entities' motions in the Chapter 11 Cases and to develop, prosecute, confirm and consummate one or more plans of reorganization with respect to the Chapter 11 Cases, including the Plan, and to consummate all the transactions contemplated by the Noteholder Restructuring Support Agreement; •our ability to transfer the operations associated with Roseton and Danskammer facilities to one or more third parties in connection with the rejection of the related leases under the Chapter 11 Cases; •beliefs and assumptions relating to our liquidity, available borrowing capacity and capital resources generally, including the extent to which such liquidity could be affected by poor economic and financial market conditions or new regulations and any resulting impacts on financial institutions and other current and potential counterparties; •the anticipated effectiveness of the overall restructuring activities and any additional strategies to address our liquidity and our capital resources including accessing the capital markets; •limitations on our ability to utilize previously incurred federal net operating losses or alternative minimum tax credits; •beliefs that control over DH and its consolidated subsidiaries will likely revert to Dynegy upon emergence of DH from bankruptcy with Dynegy assuming the obligations of DH, resulting in reconsolidation; •expectations regarding our compliance with our New Credit Agreements, including collateral demands, interest expense and other payments; •the timing and anticipated benefits to be achieved through our company-wide cost savings programs, including our PRIDE initiative; •expectations regarding environmental matters, including costs of compliance, availability and adequacy of emission credits, and the impact of ongoing proceedings and potential regulations or changes to current regulations, including those relating to climate change, air emissions, cooling water intake structures, coal combustion byproducts, and other laws and regulations to which we are, or could become, subject; •beliefs, assumptions and projections regarding the demand for power, generation volumes and commodity pricing, including natural gas prices and the impact on such prices from shale gas proliferation and the timing of a recovery in natural gas prices, if any; 31 Table of Contents •sufficiency of, access to and costs associated with coal, fuel oil and natural gas inventories and transportation thereof; •beliefs and assumptions about market competition, generation capacity and regional supply and demand characteristics of the wholesale power generation market, including the anticipation of higher market pricing over the longer term; •beliefs and assumptions regarding our ability to enhance or protect long-term value for stockholders; •the effectiveness of our strategies to capture opportunities presented by changes in commodity prices and to manage our exposure to energy price volatility; •beliefs and assumptions about weather and general economic conditions; •projected operating or financial results, including anticipated cash flows from operations, revenues and profitability, our focus on safety and our ability to efficiently operate our assets so as to capture revenue generating opportunities and operating margins; •beliefs about the outcome of legal, regulatory, administrative and legislative matters; and •expectations regarding performance standards and estimates regarding capital and maintenance expenditures, including the Consent Decree and its associated costs and performance standards. Any or all of our forward-looking statements may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, including those set forth below. FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS Risks Related to Restructuring The Debtor Entities filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with bankruptcy cases. The Debtor Entities filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. For the duration of the Debtor Entities' Chapter 11 Cases, our business and operations will be subject to various risks, including but not limited to, the following: •The Debtor Entities' bankruptcy filings may cause customers, suppliers and others with whom we have commercial relationships to lose confidence in us and may make it more difficult for us to obtain and maintain such commercial relationships on competitive terms; •It may be more difficult to retain and motivate our key employees through the process of reorganization, and we may have difficulty attracting new employees; •Our senior management will be required to spend significant time and effort dealing with the bankruptcy and restructuring activities rather than focusing exclusively on business operations; and •There can be no assurance as to our Debtor Entities' ability to maintain or obtain sufficient financing sources for operations or to fund any reorganization plan and meet future obligations. We will also be subject to risks and uncertainties with respect to the actions and decisions of creditors and other third parties who have interests in the Chapter 11 Cases that may be inconsistent with our plans. These risks and uncertainties could affect our business and operations in various ways and may increase the time the Debtor Entities have to operate under Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. Because of the risks and uncertainties associated with our Debtor Entities' Chapter 11 32 Table of Contents Cases, we cannot predict or quantify the ultimate impact that events occurring during the Chapter 11 Cases will have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to successfully implement the Restructuring set forth in the Noteholder Restructuring Support Agreement and the Plan. The Debtor Entities' consummation of the Plan is contingent upon a number of factors which include, among other things, that: •the Plan may not be confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court or federal and state regulators may not approve certain elements of the Plan; and •the Noteholder Restructuring Support Agreement may be terminated. The Noteholder Restructuring Support Agreement provides that it may be terminated if (among other things): (i) the Bankruptcy Court has not entered an order approving the Disclosure Statement related to the Plan by March 15, 2012; (ii) the Bankruptcy Court has not entered an order confirming the Plan by June 15, 2012; or (iii) the Plan has not become effective by August 1, 2012. Further, certain noteholders may terminate their obligations in their individual capacity if: (i) the examiner finds that any member of DH's board of directors was more likely than not to have committed acts of fraud, willful misconduct, breach of fiduciary duty or any other act which would likely make them unable to satisfy certain standards set out in the Bankruptcy Code; (ii) any modification is made to any Plan Related Document (as defined in the Noteholder Restructuring Support Agreement) that is inconsistent in any material respect with the Plan Related Documents approved by each of the Noteholders as of December 26, 2011; or (iii) the Bankruptcy Court has not entered an order approving the Disclosure Statement by March 15, 2012. If we are unable to implement the Restructuring of the Debtor Entities, as contemplated by the Noteholder Restructuring Support Agreement and the Plan, it is unclear whether we will be able to reorganize the Debtor Entities' businesses and what, if any, distribution holders of claims against, or equity interests in, the Debtor Entities ultimately would receive with respect to their claims or equity interests. For example, to address our burdensome lease obligations at Roseton and Danskammer, it is a condition precedent to the consummation of the Plan that the rejection damages arising from the rejection of such obligations are determined in an amount not to exceed $300 million (or $190 million net of the claim of PSEG, which has already been allowed by the Bankruptcy Court in the amount of $110 million), subject to the potential wavier of such condition (x) by Dynegy and DH, as plan proponents, to allow such claim in an amount not to exceed $400 million (or $290 million net of PSEG's $110 million allowed claim) or (y) by the Plan Proponents and the Consenting Noteholders (as defined in the Noteholder Restructuring Support Agreement), collectively, to allow such claims in excess of $400 million (or $290 million net of PSEG's $100 million allowed claim). If this condition cannot be satisfied, our Debtor Entities may need to pursue alternative restructuring proposals. Such alternative proposals may include a revision to the Plan by the Plan Proponents or other parties in interest in the Chapter 11 Cases could undertake to formulate and propose a different plan of reorganization. Such a plan of reorganization could involve a reorganization and continuation of the business of DH, the sale of DH as a going concern or an orderly liquidation of the properties and interests in property of DH, any of which may not include the same Plan settlement proposed in the Plan and may result in Dynegy receiving significantly less or no value for its equity interest in DH. We may not be able to secure confirmation or consummation of the Plan. The Plan requires the acceptance of a requisite number of holders of claims that are entitled to vote on the Plan, and the approval of the Bankruptcy Court. Furthermore, confirmation and consummation of the Plan are subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions precedent, including, among others, the limitation on the aggregate amount of the damages to be determined to arise from 33 Table of Contents the rejection of the Roseton and Danskammer leases, discussed above, and obtaining the necessary approvals from Dynegy's stockholders to amend Dynegy's Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to increase the authorized number of shares of common stock and Preferred Stock and/or approve the issuance of common stock upon the conversion of the Preferred Stock. There can be no assurance that such acceptance and approval will be obtained, or that such conditions will be satisfied, and therefore, that the Plan will be confirmed and consummated. In addition, as discussed herein, an examiner has been appointed in these cases to investigate (i) the Debtor Entities' conduct in connection with the prepetition 2011 restructuring and reorganization of the Debtor Entities and their non-Debtor affiliates, (ii) any possible fraudulent conveyances, and (iii) whether DH is capable of confirming a Chapter 11 plan. There can be no assurance that the determinations made by the examiner will not negatively impact the plan proponents' ability to confirm the Plan. Furthermore, although we believe that the Plan will be confirmed and the Effective Date will occur reasonably soon after the date on which the Bankruptcy Court's order confirming the Plan is entered on the Bankruptcy Court's docket, there can be no assurance as to the timing or as to whether the Effective Date will occur. If the Plan is not confirmed or the Effective Date does not occur, there can be no assurance that any alternative plan of reorganization would not result in Dynegy receiving significantly less or no value for its equity interest in DH. In addition, if a protracted reorganization or liquidation were to occur, there is a substantial risk that Dynegy is likely to continue to face ongoing litigation at significant costs. The Plan includes provisions for the transfer of certain entities that are Debtor Entities, including Dynegy Danskammer and Dynegy Roseton, to the plan trust, as set forth more fully in the Plan and Disclosure Statement. If any of the Debtor Entities to be transferred are subject to regulation as utility companies as of the time of transfer, the transfer may be subject to the prior approval of one or more regulatory bodies. The Debtor Entities have requested approvals of federal and state regulators, and certain parties have intervened and protested approval, absent the imposition of conditions to resolve their concerns. The approvals by governmental entities may be denied, conditioned or delayed and therefore may not be available when required to facilitate the transfer of such Debtor Entities to the plan trust. If the Plan is confirmed but the Effective Date does not occur, it may become necessary to amend the Plan to provide for alternative treatment of claims and equity interests which may result in Dynegy receiving significantly less or no value for its equity interest in DH. If any modifications to the Plan are material, it may be necessary to resolicit votes from holders of claims and equity interests adversely affected by the modifications with respect to such Plan. DPC and DMG receive significant services from certain of Dynegy's other subsidiaries and the loss of such services, as a result of such subsidiaries becoming the subject of a voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy case or otherwise, may have a material adverse impact on DPC's and DMG's businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the value of the collateral that will secure the New Secured Notes. DPC and DMG receive significant services from certain of Dynegy's subsidiaries, including, among others, cash management and energy management services. If the provision of these services were to be delayed, interrupted or otherwise halted for any reason, including if Dynegy or its subsidiaries that provide such services become the subject of a voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy case, this may have a material adverse impact on DPC's and DMG's businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the value of the collateral that will secure the New Secured Notes. A replacement supplier of these services may not be found within a reasonable time (or at all) or on economic terms that are commercially reasonable. 34 Table of Contents The outcome of ongoing and potential legal proceedings may disrupt the Restructuring, could have a material adverse effect on the Debtor Entities in the event the Plan is not consummated and/or have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to certain ongoing legal proceedings for which management believes a material loss is reasonably possible. These legal proceedings include the matters set forth in Note 3—Chapter 11 Cases and Note 23—Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements for the period ended December 31, 2011. Specifically with respect to the Reorganization and the DMG Transfer, DH and certain non-debtor affiliates are defendants in three cases filed in the New York Supreme Court by (i) the Owner Lessor Plaintiffs, (ii) Indenture Trustee Plaintiffs, and (iii) the Avenue Plaintiffs (the "Reorganization Lawsuits"). The plaintiffs in these cases challenge, among other things, the DMG Transfer, alleging, inter alia, that the challenged transfer constituted a fraudulent conveyance under New York law or, in the alternative, an unlawful dividend or distribution from a subsidiary to its parent. The plaintiffs also assert causes of action for breach of fiduciary duties against the directors of Dynegy and the managers of DH. In respect to the leases at Roseton and Danskammer, they have also asserted breach of contract and quasi-contract claims against the defendants for alleged breaches of the guarantees related to the leases. The plaintiffs seek judgments setting aside and annulling the challenged DMG Transfer and related transactions or awarding damages. Please read Note 23—Commitments and Contingencies—Legal Proceedings - Bondholder Litigation for further discussion. DH was also a defendant in a prior New York state court action and a prior Delaware state court action asserting similar claims and seeking injunctive relief to prevent the consummation of the Reorganization. The New York action was stayed in favor of the Delaware action. The Delaware court denied the plaintiffs' request for injunctive relief because the plaintiffs to the Delaware action failed to satisfy any of the requisite elements for issuance of an injunction, including, among other things, a reasonable probability of success on the merits of their breach of contract and fraudulent transfer claims. Both the Court of Chancery and the Delaware Supreme Court denied the Delaware plaintiffs' requests for interlocutory appeal and such plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed the Delaware action in August 2011. The New York case was also discontinued by the New York state court on August 19, 2011. On October 31, 2011, DH and its non-debtor co-defendants filed motions to dismiss the complaints filed by the Avenue Plaintiffs and the Lease Indenture Trustee Plaintiffs. Among other things, the defendants asserted that the complaints failed to state a claim upon which relief could be granted because the plaintiffs are not creditors of the transferor (DGIN) with respect to the asserted fraudulent transfers in respect of the Reorganization, and the defendants did not breach any agreements with the plaintiffs in engaging in the Reorganization. In accordance with the Noteholder Restructuring Support Agreement, the state court litigation with the Avenue Plaintiffs is currently stayed while the Noteholder Restructuring Support Agreement is in force. In addition, on November 21, 2011, we filed a Notice of Filing of Bankruptcy Petition and of the Automatic Stay in the Restructuring Lawsuits to alert interested parties to the existence of the Chapter 11 Cases and the applicability of the automatic stay to such proceedings. Also on November 21, 2011, the parties to the action filed by the Indenture Trustee Plaintiffs filed a stipulation to stay that action unless and until the court rules that the automatic stay does not apply during the pendency of these Chapter 11 Cases. Pursuant to a settlement with PSEG entered into on December 13, 2011, PSEG have also agreed to continue the stay with respect to their lawsuit until consummation of the Plan, at which point they have agreed to dismiss it with prejudice. By orders dated January 25, 2012, January 30, 2012, and February 29, 2012, the Court ordered that the Reorganization lawsuits are stayed, and ordered the parties to notify the Court in writing by January 23, 2013 regarding the status of the stay. 35 Table of Contents The Plan proposed in the Chapter 11 Cases provides for the settlement and compromise (the "Plan Settlement") of, among other things, all claims and causes of action arising from or related to the Reorganization, including the Reorganization Lawsuits. In the event the Plan is not confirmed, we are likely to continue to face risks related to the Reorganization Lawsuits. We believe the allegations made by the plaintiffs in these proceedings lack merit and intend to vigorously defend our position in these and any other proceedings that may arise involving the Reorganization, the New Credit Agreements, and the DMG Transfer. However, any extraordinary remedy, such as the unwinding of the Reorganization, the New Credit Agreements, or the DMG Transfer, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, parties in interest may pursue other litigation strategies to enforce any claims against the Debtor Entities or us. Litigation is by its nature uncertain and there can be no assurance of the ultimate resolution of any such claims. Any litigation may be expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to our normal business operations and the Reorganization, and a resolution of any such litigation that is unfavorable to us could have a material adverse effect on the Reorganization or on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Risks Related to Our Financial Structure, Level of Indebtedness, Access to Capital Markets and Taxes We have significant indebtedness that could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling certain of our financial obligations. We have and will continue to have a significant amount of debt outstanding. As of December 31, 2011, we had total debt of approximately $1.8 billion (including debt outstanding under the DMG Credit Agreement and $1.25 billion outstanding related to the Undertaking Agreement with DH). In addition, DH, our wholly-owned equity investment, had debt of approximately $4.7 billion (including $3.6 billion in unsecured senior notes and debentures that are subject to compromise in the bankruptcy process and $1.1 billion outstanding under the DPC Credit Agreement). Such amount of indebtedness could: •make it difficult to satisfy our financial obligations, including debt service requirements; •limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes on acceptable terms, on a timely basis or at all; •limit our financial flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; •impact the evaluation of our creditworthiness by counterparties to commercial agreements, both for hedging as well as operating contracts, such as for fuel and transportation, and affect their willingness to transact with us and/or the level of collateral we are required to post under such agreements; •place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; •increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, and •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes. Further, if gas, power, and capacity prices, where applicable, do not improve, our ability to service our debt obligations will be adversely affected and may require significant operational and balance sheet restructurings. We conduct virtually all of our operations through our subsidiaries and may be limited in our ability to access funds from these subsidiaries to service debt and or operate our business. We conduct virtually all of our operations through our subsidiaries and, therefore, depend upon dividends and other intercompany transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to meet our debt service and 36 Table of Contents other obligations. The ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions or pay dividends will depend on their operating results. In addition, the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends and make other payments to us may be restricted by, among other things, applicable corporate and other laws, potentially adverse tax consequences and the terms and covenants of any future outstanding indebtedness, contract or agreements of our subsidiaries, including the DPC Credit Agreement and the DMG Credit Agreement, which limit distributions to $135 million and $90 million per year, respectively. If we are unable to access the cash flow of our subsidiaries, we may have difficulty meeting our debt service obligations. Additionally, we expect that the indenture governing the New Secured Notes will also include covenants further limiting our ability to make distributions of cash, including a requirement to maintain a debt service account for the benefit of the holders of the New Secured Notes. These restrictions on our ability to access cash flow from certain subsidiaries may impair our ability to operate our business as effectively as possible. Restrictive covenants may adversely affect operations. The New Credit Agreements contain and the proposed Preferred Stock and indenture governing the New Secured Notes to be issued pursuant to the Plan is expected to contain various covenants that, in the case of the New Credit Agreements limit the ability of DMG and DPC, and in the case of the Preferred Stock and New Secured Notes Indenture limit the ability of us and certain of our subsidiaries, to, among other things: •incur additional indebtedness; •pay dividends, repurchase or redeem stock or make investments in certain entities; •enter into related party transactions; •create certain liens; •enter into sale and leaseback transactions; •enter into any agreements which limit the ability of such subsidiaries to make dividends or otherwise transfer cash or assets to us or certain other subsidiaries; •create unrestricted subsidiaries; •impair the security interests; •issue certain capital stock; •consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets; and •sell and acquire assets. These restrictions may affect the ability of DMG, DPC, or us to operate our businesses, may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise and may adversely affect the conduct of our current businesses, including restricting our ability to finance future operations and capital needs and limiting our ability to engage in other business activities. Our access to the capital markets may be limited. Because of our non-investment grade credit rating, the Chapter 11 Cases of the Debtor Entities, and/or general conditions in the financial and credit markets, our access to the capital markets may be limited. Moreover, the urgency of a capital-raising transaction may require us to pursue additional capital at an inopportune time. Our ability to obtain capital and the costs of such capital are dependent on numerous factors, including: •covenants in our existing credit agreements; 37 Table of Contents •the outcome of the bankruptcy proceedings for the Debtor Entities; •covenants in the proposed New Secured Notes and Preferred Stock to be issued in connection with the Plan; •investor confidence in us and the regional wholesale power markets; •our financial performance and the financial performance of our subsidiaries; •our levels of debt; •our requirements for posting collateral under various commercial agreements; •our credit ratings; •our cash flow; •our long-term business prospects; and •general economic and capital market conditions, including the timing and magnitude of any market recovery. We may not be successful in obtaining additional capital for these or other reasons. An inability to access capital may limit our ability to meet our operating needs and, as a result, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our non-investment grade status may adversely impact our commercial operations, increase our liquidity requirements and increase the cost of refinancing opportunities. We may not have adequate liquidity to post required amounts of additional collateral. Dynegy's corporate family credit rating is currently below investment grade and we cannot assure you that our credit ratings will improve, or that they will not decline, in the future. Our credit ratings may affect the evaluation of our creditworthiness by trading counterparties and lenders, which could put us at a disadvantage to competitors with higher or investment grade ratings. In carrying out our commercial business strategy, our current non-investment grade credit ratings have resulted and will likely continue to result in requirements that we either prepay obligations or post significant amounts of collateral to support our business. Although the implementation of our commercial business strategy was modified in connection with the Reorganization to leverage the benefits of the New Credit Agreements at our separately financed, bankruptcy-remote portfolios, various commodity trading counterparties may nevertheless be unwilling to transact with us or may make collateral demands that reflect our non-investment grade credit ratings, the counterparties' views of our creditworthiness, as well as changes in commodity prices. We use a portion of our capital resources, in the form of cash, short-term investments, lien capacity, and letters of credit, to satisfy these counterparty collateral demands. Our commodity agreements are tied to market pricing and may require us to post additional collateral under certain circumstances. If market conditions change such that counterparties are entitled to additional collateral, our liquidity could be strained and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Factors that could trigger increased demands for collateral include changes in our credit rating or liquidity and changes in commodity prices for power and fuel, among others. Additionally, our non-investment grade credit ratings may limit our ability to obtain additional sources of liquidity, refinance our debt obligations or access the capital markets at the lower borrowing costs that would presumably be available to competitors with higher or investment grade ratings. Should our ratings continue at their current levels, or should our ratings be further downgraded, we would expect these negative effects to continue and, in the case of a downgrade, become more pronounced. 38 Table of Contents Despite current indebtedness levels, Dynegy and its subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial leverage. Dynegy and its subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of the indenture governing the New Secured Notes to be issued pursuant to the Plan, the terms of the Preferred Stock, the agreements governing the New Credit Agreements and the agreements governing other existing indebtedness will not or do not fully prohibit Dynegy or its subsidiaries from doing so. Any such indebtedness may reduce the cash flow available to redeem the Preferred Stock or make principal and interest payments on the New Secured Notes, and an exercise by the holder of such indebtedness of their liens may result in Dynegy losing the benefit of the assets secured by such liens, including all of Dynegy's indirect interests in DMG and DPC. If new debt is added to Dynegy's and it subsidiaries' current debt levels, the related risks that they now face could intensify. Our ability to use our federal net operating losses or alternative minimum tax credits to offset our future taxable income may be limited under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code. Our ability to utilize previously incurred federal net operating losses ("NOLs") and alternative minimum tax ("AMT") credits to offset future taxable income would be limited if we were to undergo an "ownership change" within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code"). In general, an ownership change occurs whenever the percentage of the stock of a corporation owned by "5-percent shareholders" (within the meaning of Section 382 of the Code) increases by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of the stock of such corporation owned by such "5-percent shareholders" at any time over the preceding three years. Under certain circumstances, issuances or acquisitions of Dynegy Inc.'s common stock or sales or dispositions of Dynegy Inc.'s common stock by stockholders could trigger an "ownership change," and we generally do not have control over the amount or timing of any such transactions in Dynegy Inc.'s common stock. An ownership change under Section 382 of the Code would establish an annual limitation on the amount of NOLs and AMT credits that can be utilized in future years, and it is likely that such a limitation would prevent full utilization of our previously incurred NOLs and AMT credits against future taxable income. Depending on prevailing interest rates and our market value at the time, such an ownership change might prevent utilization of all of our NOLs and AMT credits. If the Plan is approved, our ability to use our NOLs and AMT credits, which total $128 million and $271 million, respectively, at December 31, 2011, will likely be limited or modified on the Effective Date of the Plan as a result of an "ownership change" under Section 382 of the Code and such limitation or modification will likely be significant. NOLs or AMT credits existing on the Effective Date of the Plan will be available to offset taxable income generated as a result of the bankruptcy or, alternatively, under Section 108 of the Code, Dynegy may elect to reduce certain tax attributes by some or all of the taxable income generated as a result of the bankruptcy. Our ability to utilize certain tax attributes including NOLs and AMT credits that remain after the Effective Date of the Plan will be subject to further limitations and elections as we emerge from bankruptcy. Further limitations on our use of tax attributes will apply if we undergo another "ownership change" within the meaning of Section 382 of the Code. The magnitude of such limitations and their effect on us are difficult to assess and depend in part on our value at the time of any such ownership change and the prevailing federal long-term tax exempt rate. If the shares of Preferred Stock proposed to be issued pursuant to the Plan are not redeemed prior to their mandatory conversion, such conversion will dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders. The Plan provides for the issuance of $2.1 billion of Preferred Stock. The Preferred Stock will accrue dividends, commencing on November 7, 2011, at 4 percent through December 31, 2013, 39 Table of Contents 8 percent thereafter through December 31, 2014 and 12 percent thereafter. The dividends will not be paid in cash but will accrue. The Preferred Stock will not be convertible at the option of the holder but will mandatorily convert into common stock, if not earlier redeemed, on the earlier of December 31, 2015 or a bankruptcy event with respect to us or certain of our subsidiaries. Based on our capital structure anticipated to be in effect upon consummation of the Plan, such shares of Preferred Stock are expected to be convertible in to 97 percent of our fully diluted common stock (assuming conversion on such date) and excluding any equity incentive awards to the employees. We may not have the financial resources necessary to redeem the Preferred Stock prior to conversion. If that is the case, the issuance of our common stock pursuant to the mandatory conversion feature of the Preferred Stock will significantly dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders and could affect the trading price of our common stock upon issuance. In addition, the possibility of conversion of the Preferred Stock into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. Risks Related to the Operation of Our Business Because wholesale power prices are subject to significant volatility and because many of our power generation facilities operate without long-term power sales agreements, our revenues and profitability are subject to wide fluctuations. Because we largely sell electric energy, capacity and ancillary services into the wholesale energy spot market or into other power markets on a term basis, we are not guaranteed any rate of return on our capital investments. Rather, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will depend, in large part, upon prevailing market prices for power and the fuel to generate such power. Wholesale power markets are subject to significant price fluctuations over relatively short periods of time and can be unpredictable. Such factors that may materially impact the power markets and our financial results include: •economic conditions; •the existence and effectiveness of demand-side management; •conservation efforts and the extent to which they impact electricity demand; •regulatory constraints on pricing (current or future) or the functioning of the energy trading markets and energy trading generally; •the proliferation of advanced shale gas drilling increasing domestic natural gas supplies; •fuel price volatility; and •increased competition or price pressure driven by generation from renewable sources. Many of our facilities operate as "merchant" facilities without long-term power sales agreements. Consequently, there can be no assurance that we will be able to sell any or all of the electric energy, capacity or ancillary services from those facilities at commercially attractive rates or that our facilities will be able to operate profitably. This could lead to less favorable financial results as well as future impairments of our property, plant and equipment or to the retirement of certain of our facilities resulting in economic losses and liabilities. Given the volatility of commodity power prices, to the extent we do not secure long-term power sales agreements for the output of our power generation facilities, our revenues and profitability will be subject to increased volatility, and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Further, declines in the market prices of natural gas and wholesale electricity have reduced the outlook for cash flow that can be expected to be generated by us in the next several years. 40 Table of Contents Our commercial strategy may not be executed as planned or may result in lost opportunities. We seek to commercialize our assets through sales arrangements of various types. In doing so, we attempt to balance a desire for greater predictability of earnings and cash flows in the short- and medium-terms with a belief that commodity prices will rise over the longer term, creating upside opportunities for those with unhedged generation volumes. Our ability to successfully execute this strategy is dependent on a number of factors, many of which are outside our control, including market liquidity, the availability of counterparties willing to transact with us or to transact with us at prices we believe are commercially acceptable, the availability of liquidity to post collateral in support of our derivative instruments, and the reliability of the systems comprising our commercial operations function. The availability of market liquidity and willing counterparties could be negatively impacted by poor economic and financial market conditions, including impacts on financial institutions and other current and potential counterparties as well as counterparties' views of our creditworthiness. If we are unable to transact in the short- and medium-terms, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be subject to significant uncertainty and volatility. Alternatively, significant contract execution for any such period may precede a run-up in commodity prices, resulting in lost upside opportunities and mark-to-market accounting losses causing significant variability in net income and other GAAP reported measures. We are exposed to the risk of fuel and fuel transportation cost increases and interruptions in fuel supplies. We purchase the fuel requirements for many of our power generation facilities, primarily those that are natural gas-fired, under short-term contracts or on the spot market. As a result, we face the risks of supply interruptions and fuel price volatility, as fuel deliveries may not exactly match those required for energy sales, due in part to our need to pre-purchase fuel inventories for reliability and dispatch requirements. Moreover, profitable operation of many of our coal-fired generation facilities is highly dependent on coal prices and coal transportation rates. Power generators in the midwest and the northeast have experienced significant pressures on available coal supplies that are either transportation or supply related. We have entered into term contracts for PRB coal, which we use for our coal facilities in the midwest. Our expected coal requirements are 100 percent contracted and priced for 2012. Our forecast coal requirements for 2013 are 62 percent committed. Those volumes are unpriced but are subject to a price collar structure. Our coal transportation requirements are 100 percent contracted and priced through 2013. Coal transportation rates will be renewed in 2014 at levels higher than our current rates. The low sulfur content coal used at our facilities in order to meet the requirements of our air permits limits our coal supply options, creating risks in terms of our ability to procure firm coal supplies for periods and prices we believe are favorable. Further, any changes in the costs of coal, fuel oil, natural gas or transportation rates and changes in the relationship between such costs and the market prices of power will affect our financial results. If we are unable to procure fuel for physical delivery at prices we consider favorable, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Our costs of compliance with existing environmental requirements are significant, and costs of compliance with new environmental requirements or factors could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business is subject to extensive and frequently changing environmental regulation by federal, state and local authorities. Such environmental regulation imposes, among other things, restrictions, liabilities and obligations in connection with the generation, handling, use, transportation, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and waste and in connection with spills, releases and emissions of various substances (including GHG) into the environment, and in connection with 41 Table of Contents environmental impacts associated with cooling water intake structures. Existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised or reinterpreted, new laws and regulations may be adopted or may become applicable to us or our facilities, and litigation or enforcement proceedings could be commenced against us. Proposals being considered by federal and state authorities (including proposals regarding regulation of GHGs) could, if and when adopted or enacted, require us to make substantial capital and operating expenditures or consider retiring certain of our facilities. If any of these events occur, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Many environmental laws require approvals or permits from governmental authorities before construction, modification or operation of a power generation facility may commence. Certain environmental permits must be renewed periodically in order for us to continue operating our facilities. The process of obtaining and renewing necessary permits can be lengthy and complex and can sometimes result in the establishment of permit conditions that make the project or activity for which the permit was sought unprofitable or otherwise unattractive. Even where permits are not required, compliance with environmental laws and regulations can require significant capital and operating expenditures. We are required to comply with numerous environmental laws and regulations, and to obtain numerous governmental permits when we modify and operate our facilities. If there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approvals or permits, if we fail to obtain any required approval or permit, or if we are unable to comply with the terms of such approvals or permits, the operation of our facilities may be interrupted or become subject to additional costs. Further, changed interpretations of existing regulations may subject historical maintenance, repair and replacement activities at our facilities to claims of noncompliance. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Certain of our facilities are also required to comply with the terms of the Consent Decree or other governmental orders. With the continuing trend toward stricter environmental standards and more extensive regulatory and permitting requirements, our capital and operating environmental expenditures are likely to be substantial and may significantly increase in the future. Our business is subject to complex government regulation. Changes in these regulations or in their implementation may affect costs of operating our facilities or our ability to operate our facilities, or increase competition, any of which would negatively impact our results of operations. We are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the generation and sale of energy commodities in each of the jurisdictions in which we have operations. Compliance with these ever-changing laws and regulations requires expenses (including legal representation) and monitoring, capital and operating expenditures. Potential changes in laws and regulations that could have a material impact on our business include: re-regulation of the power industry in markets in which we conduct business; the introduction, or reintroduction, of rate caps or pricing constraints; increased credit standards, collateral costs or margin requirements, as well as reduced market liquidity, as a result of potential OTC market regulation; or a variation of these. Furthermore, these and other market-based rules and regulations are subject to change at any time, and we cannot predict what changes may occur in the future or how such changes might affect any facet of our business. The costs and burdens associated with complying with the increased number of regulations may have a material adverse effect on us if we fail to comply with the laws and regulations governing our business or if we fail to maintain or obtain advantageous regulatory authorizations and exemptions. Moreover, increased competition within the sector resulting from potential legislative changes, regulatory changes or other factors may create greater risks to the stability of our power generation earnings and cash flows generally. 42 Table of Contents Availability and cost of emission allowances could materially impact our costs of operations. We are required to maintain, either through allocation or purchase, sufficient emission allowances to support our operations in the ordinary course of operating our power generation facilities. These allowances are used to meet our obligations imposed by various applicable environmental laws, and the trend toward more stringent regulations (including regulations regarding GHG emissions) will likely require us to obtain new or additional emission allowances. If our operational needs require more than our allocated quantity of emission allowances, we may be forced to purchase such allowances on the open market, which could be costly. If we are unable to maintain sufficient emission allowances to match our operational needs, we may have to curtail our operations so as not to exceed our available emission allowances, or install costly new emissions controls. As we use the emissions allowances that we have purchased on the open market, costs associated with such purchases will be recognized as operating expense. If such allowances are available for purchase, but only at significantly higher prices, their purchase could materially increase our costs of operations in the affected markets and materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Competition in wholesale power markets, together with the age of certain of our generation facilities and an oversupply of power generation capacity in certain regional markets, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our power generation business competes with other non-utility generators, regulated utilities, unregulated subsidiaries of regulated utilities, other energy service companies and financial institutions in the sale of electric energy, capacity and ancillary services, as well as in the procurement of fuel, transmission and transportation services. Moreover, aggregate demand for power may be met by generation capacity based on several competing technologies, as well as power generating facilities fueled by alternative or renewable energy sources, including hydroelectric power, synthetic fuels, solar, wind, wood, geothermal, waste heat and solid waste sources. Regulatory initiatives designed to enhance renewable generation could increase competition from these types of facilities. In addition, a buildup of new electric generation facilities in recent years has resulted in an oversupply of power generation capacity in certain regional markets we serve. We also compete against other energy merchants on the basis of our relative operating skills, financial position and access to credit sources. Electric energy customers, wholesale energy suppliers and transporters often seek financial guarantees, credit support such as letters of credit, and other assurances that their energy contracts will be satisfied. Companies with which we compete may have greater resources in these areas. In addition, certain of our current facilities are relatively old. Newer plants owned by competitors will often be more efficient than some of our plants, which may put these plants at a competitive disadvantage. Over time, some of our plants may become unable to compete because of the construction of new plants, and such new plants could have a number of advantages including: more efficient equipment, newer technology that could result in fewer emissions, or more advantageous locations on the electric transmission system. Additionally, these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new laws and regulations because of the newer technology utilized in their facilities or the additional resources derived from owning more efficient facilities. Taken as a whole, the potential disadvantages of our aging fleet could result in lower run-times or even early asset retirement. Other factors may contribute to increased competition in wholesale power markets. New forms of capital and competitors have entered the industry in the last several years, including financial investors who perceive that asset values are at levels below their true replacement value. As a result, a number of generation facilities in the United States are now owned by lenders and investment companies. Furthermore, mergers and asset reallocations in the industry could create powerful new competitors. Under any scenario, we anticipate that we will face competition from numerous companies in the industry, some of which have superior capital structures. 43 Table of Contents Moreover, many companies in the regulated utility industry, with which the wholesale power industry is closely linked, are also restructuring or reviewing their strategies. Several of those companies have discontinued or are discontinuing their unregulated activities and seeking to divest or spin-off their unregulated subsidiaries. Some of those companies have had, or are attempting to have, their regulated subsidiaries acquire assets out of their or other companies' unregulated subsidiaries. This may lead to increased competition between the regulated utilities and the unregulated power producers within certain markets. To the extent that competition increases, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. We do not own or control transmission facilities required to sell the wholesale power from our generation facilities. If the transmission service is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver wholesale power may be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, these transmission facilities are operated by RTOs and ISOs, which are subject to changes in structure and operation and impose various pricing limitations. These changes and pricing limitations may affect our ability to deliver power to the market that would, in turn, adversely affect the profitability of our generation facilities. We do not own or control the transmission facilities required to sell the wholesale power from our generation facilities. If the transmission service from these facilities is unavailable or disrupted, or if the transmission capacity infrastructure is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver wholesale power may be materially adversely affected. RTOs and ISOs provide transmission services, administer transparent and competitive power markets and maintain system reliability. Many of these RTOs and ISOs operate in the real-time and day-ahead markets in which we sell energy. The RTOs and ISOs that oversee most of the wholesale power markets impose, and in the future may continue to impose, offer caps and other mechanisms to guard against the potential exercise of market power in these markets as well as price limitations. These types of price limitations and other regulatory mechanisms may adversely affect the profitability of our generation facilities that sell energy and capacity into the wholesale power markets. Problems or delays that may arise in the formation and operation of maturing RTOs and similar market structures, or changes in geographic scope, rules or market operations of existing RTOs, may also affect our ability to sell, the prices we receive or the cost to transmit power produced by our generating facilities. Rules governing the various regional power markets may also change from time to time, which could affect our costs or revenues. Additionally, if the transmission service from these facilities is unavailable or disrupted, or if the transmission capacity infrastructure is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver wholesale power may be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, the rates for transmission capacity from these facilities are set by others and thus are subject to changes, some of which could be significant. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. Our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would be adversely impacted by strikes or work stoppages by our unionized employees. A majority of the employees at our facilities are subject to collective bargaining agreements with various unions. Additionally, unionization activities, including votes for union certification, could occur at our non-union generating facilities in our fleet. If union employees strike, participate in a work stoppage or slowdown or engage in other forms of labor strife or disruption, we could experience reduced power generation or outages if replacement labor is not procured. The ability to procure such replacement labor is uncertain. Strikes, work stoppages or an inability to negotiate future collective bargaining agreements on commercially reasonable terms could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 44 Table of Contents Our ability to comply with our Consent Decree may be materially adversely impacted by our future operating cash flows or unforeseen labor costs. As a result of the Consent Decree, we are required to not operate certain of our power generating facilities after specified dates unless certain emission control equipment is installed. As of December 31, 2011, only Baldwin Unit 2 has material outstanding Consent Decree work yet to be performed, which is scheduled for completion by the end of 2012. We have incurred significant costs in complying with the Consent Decree and anticipate the remainder of the equipment installations to incur additional significant costs. Further, we are exposed to the risk of price increases in the costs of labor and to the risk that counterparties to the construction contracts may fail to perform, in which case we would be forced to enter into alternative arrangements at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices and possibly cause delays to the project timelines. Further, our production may be affected if we fail to meet certain performance standards under the Consent Decree. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 