Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves risks. In evaluating our company, you should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all the information included in this annual report. The risks facing our company include, but are not limited to, those described below. The occurrence of one or more of these events could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and stock price and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business Difficult conditions in the economy and capital markets may adversely affect our profitability, financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the economy and capital markets. The financial markets in the U.S. experienced severe volatility, uncertainty and disruption from the second half of 2007 through 2009. Concerns over the availability and cost of credit, the mortgage market, a declining real estate market, increased unemployment, volatile energy and commodity prices and geopolitical issues, among other factors, have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and have caused a severe economic slowdown. Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, indirectly, the profitability of our business. Further unfavorable economic developments, particularly as a result of increases in unemployment and the failure of small businesses, could adversely affect our earnings if our customers reduce payroll, choose not to renew their insurance with us or go out of business entirely. Challenging economic conditions also may impair the ability of our customers to pay premiums as they come due. These circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the fixed-income markets are experiencing a period of volatility, uncertainty and disruption, which has negatively impacted market liquidity conditions and increased the risk that issuers of fixed maturity securities will default on principal and interest payments. Initially, the effects were focused on the subprime segment of the mortgage-backed securities market. However, this volatility expanded to: (a) a broad range of mortgage and asset-backed and other fixed income securities, including those rated investment grade; (b) the U.S. and international credit and interbank money markets generally; and (c) a wide range of financial institutions and markets, asset classes, and sectors. As a result, the market for fixed income securities has experienced decreased liquidity, increased price volatility, credit downgrade events, and increased probability of default. We have a substantial investment portfolio, comprised principally of fixed maturity securities. Government monetary policy can significantly and adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio, our profitability, and financial condition by: (a) significantly reducing the value of the fixed maturity securities we hold in our investment portfolio, creating net realized capital losses as other-than-temporary impairments (OTTI) occur, resulting in reductions to net income or net unrealized capital losses that could reduce our stockholders’ equity; (b) reducing interest rates on high quality short-term investment securities, thereby materially reducing our net investment income; and (c) making valuation of certain investment securities difficult, potentially leading to significant period-to-period changes in our estimates of fair values, which could result in significant period-to-period volatility in our net income and stockholders’ equity. These factors and the continuing market disruption could significantly and adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio, our profitability and financial condition. Our liability for losses and LAE is based on estimates and may be inadequate to cover our actual losses and expenses. We must establish and maintain reserves for our estimated losses and LAE. We establish loss reserves in our financial statements that represent an estimate of amounts needed to pay and administer claims with respect to insured claims that have occurred, including claims that have occurred but have 37 not yet been reported to us. Loss reserves are estimates of the ultimate cost of individual claims based on actuarial estimation techniques, are inherently uncertain, and do not represent an exact measure of liability. Several factors contribute to the uncertainty in establishing estimated losses, including the length of time to settle long-term, severe cases, claim cost inflation (deflation) trends and uncertainties in the long-term outcome of the 2003 and 2004 legislative reforms in California and the 2003 legislative reforms in Florida. Judgment is required in applying actuarial techniques to determine the relevance of historical payment and claim settlement patterns under current facts and circumstances. In certain states, we have a relatively short operating history and must rely on a combination of industry experience and our specific experience to establish our best estimate of losses and LAE reserves. The interpretation of historical data can be impacted by external forces, principally legislative changes, medical cost inflation, economic fluctuations and legal trends. We review our loss reserves each quarter. We may adjust our reserves based on the results of these reviews and these adjustments could be significant. Any changes in these estimates are reflected in our results of operations during the period in which they are made. Loss reserves are estimates at a given point in time of our ultimate liability for cost of claims and of the cost of managing those claims, and are inherently uncertain. It is likely that the ultimate liability will differ from our estimates, perhaps significantly. Such estimates are not precise in that, among other things, they are based on predictions of future claim emergence and payment patterns and estimates of future trends in claim frequency and claim cost. These estimates assume that the claim emergence and payment patterns, claim inflation and claim frequency trend assumptions implicitly built into estimates will continue into the future. Unexpected changes in claim cost inflation can occur through changes in general inflationary trends, changes in medical technology and procedures, changes in wage levels and general economic conditions and changes in legal theories of compensability of injured workers and their dependents. Furthermore, future costs can be influenced by changes in the workers’ compensation statutory benefit structure and in benefit administration and delivery. It often becomes necessary to refine and adjust the estimates of liability on a claim either upward or downward. Even after such adjustments, ultimate liability may exceed or be less than the revised estimates. Workers’ compensation benefits are often paid over a long period of time. In addition, there are no policy limits on our liability for workers’ compensation claims as there are for other forms of insurance. Therefore, estimating reserves for workers’ compensation claims may be more uncertain than estimating reserves for other lines of insurance with shorter or more definite periods between occurrence of the claim and final determination of the ultimate loss and with policy limits on liability for claim amounts. Accordingly, our reserves may prove to be inadequate to cover our actual losses. Our estimates of incurred losses and LAE attributable to insured events of prior years have decreased for past accident years because actual losses and LAE paid and current projections of unpaid losses and LAE were less than we originally anticipated. We refer to such decreases as favorable developments. The reductions in reserves were $51.4 million, $71.7 million, $60.0 million, for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, 2007, respectively. Estimates of net incurred losses and LAE are established by management utilizing actuarial indications based upon our historical and industry experience regarding claim emergence and claim payment patterns, and regarding medical cost inflation and claim cost trends, adjusted for future anticipated changes in claims-related and economic trends, as well as regulatory and legislative changes, to establish our best estimate of the losses and LAE reserves. The decrease in the prior year reserves was primarily the result of actual paid losses being less than expected, and revised assumptions used in projection of future losses and LAE payments based on more current information about the impact of certain changes, such as legislative changes, which was not available at the time the reserves were originally established. While we have had favorable developments over the past five years, the magnitude of these developments illustrates the inherent uncertainty in our liability for losses and LAE, and we believe that favorable or unfavorable developments of similar magnitude could occur in the future. 38 State insurance regulations in states where we operate have caused and may continue to cause downward pressure on the premiums we charge. Our pricing decisions need to take into account the workers’ compensation insurance regulatory regime of each state in which we operate, such as regimes that address the rates that industry participants in that state may or should charge for policies. As of December 31, 2009, 46.9% of our in-force premiums were generated in California. Accordingly, we are particularly affected by regulation in California. The passage of any form of rate regulation in California could impair our ability to operate profitably in California, and any such impairment could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Prior to 2009, California went through a cycle of substantial rate decreases. Between 2002 and 2004, three key pieces of workers’ compensation regulation reform were enacted that reformed medical determinations of injuries or illness, established medical fee schedules, allowed for the use of medical provider panels, modified benefit levels, changed the proof needed to file claims, and reformed many additional areas of the workers’ compensation benefits and delivery system. Workers’ compensation insurers in California responded to these reforms by reducing their rates. Although the California Commissioner does not set premium rates, he does adopt and publish a claims cost benchmark that represents advisory rates that would cover expected losses but do not contain an element to cover operating expenses or profit. In “administered pricing” states, insurance rates are set by the state insurance regulators and are adjusted periodically. Rate competition is generally not permitted in these states. Of the states in which we currently operate, Florida, Wisconsin and Idaho have implemented such regulations. Additionally, we are exposed to the risk that other states in which we operate will adopt administered pricing regulations. Due to the existence of rate regulation, and the possibility of adverse changes in such regulations, we cannot assure you that our premium rates will ultimately be adequate to cover the claim payments, losses and LAE and company overhead or, in the case of states without administered pricing, that our competitors will not set their premium rates at lower rates. In such event, we may be unable to compete effectively and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If we fail to price our insurance policies appropriately, our business competitiveness, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Premiums are based on the particular class of business and our estimates of expected losses and LAE and other expenses related to the policies we underwrite. We analyze many factors when pricing a policy, including the policyholder’s prior loss history and industry classification. Inaccurate information regarding a policyholder’s past claims experience puts us at risk for mispricing our policies. For example, when initiating coverage on a policyholder, we must rely on the information provided by the policyholder or the policyholder’s previous insurer(s) to properly estimate future claims expense. If the claims information is not accurately stated, we may under price our policies by using claims estimates that are too low. In order to set premium rates accurately, we must utilize an appropriate pricing model which correctly assesses risks based on their individual characteristics and takes into account actual and projected industry characteristics. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our concentration in California ties our performance to the business, economic, demographic and regulatory conditions in this state. Any deterioration in the conditions in this state could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our business has a concentration in California, where we generated 46.9% of our in-force premiums for as of December 31, 2009. Accordingly, unfavorable business, economic, demographic, competitive or regulatory conditions in California could negatively impact our business. California has been greatly impacted by the overall economic downturn, tightening of the credit markets and the resulting impacts on the residential real estate markets. The economic condition of the state has resulted in high unemployment and decreased payrolls. In addition, many California businesses are dependent on tourism revenues, which are, in turn, dependent on a robust economy. The 39 downturn in the national economy and the economy of California, or any other event that causes deterioration in tourism, could adversely impact small businesses such as restaurants that we have targeted as customers. The departure or insolvency of a significant number of small businesses could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We may be exposed to greater risks than those faced by insurance companies whose business is less concentrated. For example, our average premium per policy in California as of December 31, 2009 has declined by approximately 11.0% since the same time in 2008, principally as a result of declining payroll. There may be further deterioration of the economic conditions in California that could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The fact that we write only a single line of insurance may leave us at a competitive disadvantage, and subjects our financial condition and results of operations to the cyclical nature of the workers’ compensation insurance market. We face a competitive disadvantage due to the fact that we only offer a single line of insurance. Some of our competitors have additional competitive leverage because of the wide array of insurance products that they offer. For example, a business may find it more efficient or less expensive to purchase multiple lines of commercial insurance coverage from a single carrier. Because we do not offer a range of insurance products and sell only workers’ compensation insurance, we may lose potential customers to larger competitors who do offer a selection of insurance products. The property and casualty insurance industry is cyclical in nature, and is characterized by periods of so-called “soft” market conditions in which premium rates are stable or falling, insurance is readily available and insurers’ profits decline, and by periods of so-called “hard” market conditions, in which rates rise, insurance may be more difficult to find and insurers’ profits increase. According to the Insurance Information Institute, since 1970, the property and casualty insurance industry experienced hard market conditions from 1975 to 1978, 1984 to 1987 and 2001 to 2004. Although the financial performance of an individual insurance company is dependent on its own specific business characteristics, the profitability of most workers’ compensation insurance companies generally tends to follow this cyclical market pattern. Because we only offer workers’ compensation insurance, our financial condition and operations are subject to this cyclical pattern, and we have no ability to change emphasis to another line of insurance. For example, during a period when there is excess underwriting capacity in the workers’ compensation market and, therefore, lower profitability, we are unable to shift our focus to another line of insurance which is at a different stage of the insurance cycle and, thus, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We believe the workers’ compensation industry is currently experiencing increased price competition and excess underwriting capacity. This results in lower rate levels and smaller profit margins. Because of cyclicality in the workers’ compensation market, due in large part to competition, capacity and general economic factors, we cannot predict the timing or duration of changes in the market cycle. We have experienced significant increased price competition in our target markets since 2003. This cyclical pattern has in the past and could in the future adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we do not maintain good relationships with independent insurance agents and brokers, they may sell our competitors’ products rather than ours, and our revenues or profitability may decline. We market and sell our insurance products primarily through independent, non-exclusive insurance agents and brokers. These agents and brokers are not obligated to promote our products and can and do sell our competitors’ products. We must offer workers’ compensation insurance products and services that meet the requirements of these agents and their customers. We must also provide competitive commissions to these agents and brokers. Our business model depends upon an extensive network of local and regional agents and brokers distributed throughout the states in which we do business. We need to maintain good relationships with the agents and brokers with which we contract to sell our products. If we do not, these agents and brokers may sell our competitors’ products instead of ours or may direct less desirable risks to us, and our revenues or profitability may decline. In addition, these agents and brokers may find it easier to promote the broader range of programs of some of our competitors than to promote our single-line workers’ compensation insurance products. The loss of a number of our independent agents and brokers or the failure of these agents to successfully market our 40 products may reduce our revenues and our profitability if we are unable to replace them with agents and brokers that produce comparable premiums. If our agreements with our principal strategic partners are terminated or we fail to maintain good relationships with them, our revenues may decline materially and our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We are also subject to credit risk with respect to our strategic partners. We have agreements with two principal strategic partners, ADP and Wellpoint, to market and service our insurance products through their sales forces and insurance agencies. As of December 31, 2009, we generated $30.2 million of in-force premiums through ADP and $40.4 million of in-force premiums through Wellpoint. The in-force premiums for ADP and Wellpoint were 7.8% and 10.5%, respectively, of total in-force premiums as of December 31, 2009. Our agreement with ADP is not exclusive, and ADP may terminate the agreement without cause upon 120 days notice. Although our distribution agreements with Wellpoint are exclusive, Wellpoint may terminate its agreements with us if the A.M. Best financial strength rating of ECIC were downgraded and we are not able to provide coverage through a carrier with an A.M. Best financial strength rating of “B++” or better. Wellpoint may also terminate its agreements with us without cause upon 60 days’ notice. The termination of any of our principal strategic partnership agreements, our failure to maintain good relationships with our principal strategic partners or their failure to successfully market our products may materially reduce our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations if we are unable to replace the principal strategic partners with other distributors that produce comparable premiums. In addition, we are subject to the risk that our principal strategic partners may face financial difficulties, reputational issues or problems with respect to their own products and services, which may lead to decreased sales of our products and services. Moreover, if either of our principal strategic partners consolidates or aligns itself with another company or changes its products that are currently offered with our workers’ compensation insurance product, we may lose business or suffer decreased revenues. We are also subject to credit risk with respect to ADP and Wellpoint, as they collect premiums that are due to us for the workers’ compensation products that are marketed together with their own products. ADP and Wellpoint are obligated on a monthly basis to pass on premiums that they collect on our behalf. Any failure to remit such premiums to us or to remit such amounts on a timely basis could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. A downgrade in our financial strength rating could reduce the amount of business that we are able to write or result in the termination of certain of our agreements with our strategic partners. Rating agencies rate insurance companies based on financial strength as an indication of an ability to pay claims. Our insurance subsidiaries are currently assigned a group letter rating of “A-” (Excellent) by A.M. Best, which is the rating agency that we believe has the most influence on our business. This rating is assigned to companies that, in the opinion of A.M. Best, have demonstrated an excellent overall performance when compared to industry standards. A.M. Best considers “A-” rated companies to have an excellent ability to meet their ongoing obligations to policyholders. This rating does not refer to our ability to meet non-insurance obligations and is not a recommendation to purchase or discontinue any policy or contract issued by us or to buy, hold or sell our securities. The financial strength ratings of A.M. Best and other rating agencies are subject to periodic review using, among other things, proprietary capital adequacy models, and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time. Insurance financial strength ratings are directed toward the concerns of policyholders and insurance agents and are not intended for the protection of investors or as a recommendation to buy, hold or sell securities. Our competitive position relative to other companies is determined in part by our financial strength rating. Any downgrade in the financial strength rating of our insurance subsidiaries could adversely affect our business through the loss of existing and potential policyholders and the loss of relationships with independent agents and brokers or strategic partners. In view of the difficulties experienced recently by many financial institutions, including our competitors in the insurance industry, we believe that it is possible that external rating agencies, such as A.M. Best, may increase their scrutiny of financial institutions, increase the frequency and scope of their reviews, request additional information from the companies that they rate, including additional information regarding the valuation of investment securities held, and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in their models for maintenance of certain rating levels. We cannot 41 predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which could materially adversely affect our business. One of our strategic partners, Wellpoint, requires that we offer workers’ compensation coverage through a carrier with a financial strength rating of “B++” or better by A.M. Best. We currently offer this coverage through our subsidiary, ECIC. Our inability to offer such coverage could cause a reduction in the number of policies we write, would adversely impact our relationships with our strategic partners and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial position. If ECIC’s financial strength rating were downgraded, and we were not able to enter into an agreement to provide coverage through a carrier rated “B++” or better by A.M. Best, Wellpoint could terminate its distribution agreements with us. We cannot assure you that we would be able to enter such an agreement if our rating was downgraded. If we are unable to obtain reinsurance on favorable terms, our ability to write new policies and to renew existing policies could be adversely affected and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Like other insurers, we manage our risk by buying reinsurance. Reinsurance is an arrangement in which an insurance company, called the ceding company, transfers a portion of insurance risk under policies it has written to another insurance company, called the reinsurer, and pays the reinsurer a portion of the premiums relating to those policies. Conversely, the reinsurer receives or assumes risk from the ceding company. We currently purchase excess of loss reinsurance. We purchase reinsurance to cover larger individual losses and aggregate catastrophic losses from natural perils and acts of terrorism, excluding nuclear, biological, chemical and radiological events. On July 1, 2009, we entered into a new reinsurance program that is effective through July 1, 2010. The reinsurance program consists of two agreements, one excess of loss agreement and one catastrophic loss agreement. The program provides coverage up to $200.0 million per loss occurrence, subject to certain exclusions. Our loss retention for the program year beginning July 1, 2009 is $5.0 million. The coverage is subject to an aggregate loss cession limitation in the first layer ($5.0 million in excess of our $5.0 million retention) of $20.0 million. Additionally, in the second through fifth layers of our reinsurance program, our ultimate net loss shall not exceed $10 million for any one life, and we are permitted one reinstatement for each layer upon the payment of additional premium. Covered losses which occur prior to expiration or cancellation of the reinsurance program continue to be obligations of the reinsurer and subject to the other conditions in the agreement. We are responsible for these losses if the reinsurer cannot or refuses to pay, see “Item 1—Business—Reinsurance.” Although reinsurance agreements generally bind the reinsurance companies during the treaty period at fixed pricing, market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection for periods subsequent to the current treaty period. In certain circumstances, the price of reinsurance for risks already reinsured may also increase. The availability, amount and cost of reinsurance are all subject to market conditions and to our loss experience. We cannot be certain that our reinsurance agreements will be renewed or replaced prior to their expiration upon terms satisfactory to us. If we are unable to renew or replace our reinsurance agreements upon terms satisfactory to us, our net liability on individual risks would increase and we would have greater exposure to catastrophic losses. If this were to occur, our underwriting results would be subject to greater variability and our underwriting capacity would be reduced. As a result, these consequences could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent an increase in our loss retention, reduce our earnings. Accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expense for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain reinsurance on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect our ability to write future business or result in the assumption of more risk with respect to those policies we issue. We are subject to credit risk with respect to our reinsurers, and they may also refuse to pay or may delay payment of losses we cede to them. Although we purchase reinsurance to manage our risk and exposure to losses, we continue to have direct obligations under the policies we write. We remain liable to our policyholders, even if we are unable to recover from our reinsurers what we believe we are entitled to receive under our reinsurance contracts. Reinsurers with whom we have contracted may default in their obligations as a result of 42 insolvency, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. Accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers. Liquidity and the availability of capital continue to be restricted as a result of adverse credit market conditions and concerns about the economy. Reinsurers may not have enough liquidity to make timely payments. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the financial markets may limit reinsurers’ access to capital required to operate their businesses and in turn affect payments to us. The inability of any of our reinsurers to meet its financial obligations could materially and adversely affect our operations, as we remain primarily liable to our customers under the policies that we have insured. If this were to occur, our underwriting results would be subject to greater variability and our underwriting capacity would be reduced. As a result, these consequences could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Losses may not be recovered from our reinsurers until claims are paid, and in the case of long-term workers’ compensation cases, the creditworthiness of our reinsurers may change before we recover the amounts to which we are entitled. We obtained reinsurance covering the losses incurred prior to July 1, 1995, and we could be liable for all of those losses if the coverage provided by the LPT Agreement proves inadequate or we fail to collect from the reinsurer’s party to such transaction. At December 31, 2009, we had $1.1 billion of reinsurance recoverables for paid and unpaid losses and LAE of which only $13.7 million is currently due to us. With the exception of certain losses assumed from the Fund these recoverables are unsecured. If we are unable to collect on our reinsurance recoverables, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our assumption of the assets, liabilities and operations of the Fund covered all losses incurred by the Fund prior to January 1, 2000, pursuant to legislation passed in the 1999 Nevada legislature. We obtained reinsurance covering the losses incurred prior to July 1, 1995, and we could be liable for all of those losses if the coverage provided by the LPT Agreement proves inadequate or we fail to collect from the reinsurers party to such transaction. On January 1, 2000, our Nevada insurance subsidiary assumed all of the assets, liabilities and operations of the Fund, including losses incurred by the Fund prior to such date. Our Nevada insurance subsidiary also assumed the Fund’s rights and obligations associated with the LPT Agreement that the Fund entered into with third party reinsurers with respect to its losses incurred prior to July 1, 1995. The LPT Agreement was a retroactive 100% quota share reinsurance agreement under which the Fund initially ceded $1.525 billion in liabilities for the incurred but unpaid losses and LAE related to claims incurred prior to July 1, 1995, for consideration of $775 million in cash. The LPT Agreement provides coverage for losses up to $2 billion, excluding losses for burial and transportation expenses. Accordingly, to the extent that the Fund’s outstanding losses for claims with original dates of injury prior to Ju1y 1, 1995 exceed $2 billion, they will not be covered by the LPT Agreement and we will be liable for those losses to that extent. Paid losses under the LPT Agreement totaled $489.0 million through December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2009, the estimated remaining liabilities subject to the LPT Agreement were approximately $888.4 million. The reinsurers under the LPT Agreement agreed to assume responsibilities for the claims at the benefit levels which existed in June 1999. Accordingly, if the Nevada legislature were to increase the benefits payable for the pre-July 1, 1995 claims, we would be responsible for the increased benefit costs to the extent of the legislative increase. Similarly, if the credit rating of any of the third party reinsurers that are party to the LPT Agreement were to fall below “A-” as determined by A.M. Best or to become insolvent, we would be responsible for replacing any such reinsurer or would be liable for the claims that otherwise would have been transferred to such reinsurer. For example, in 2002, the rating of one of the original reinsurers under the LPT Agreement, Gerling Global International Reinsurance Company Ltd. (Gerling) dropped below the mandatory “A-” A.M. Best rating to “B+.” Accordingly, we entered into an agreement to replace Gerling with National Indemnity Company (NICO) at a cost to us of $32.8 million. We can give no assurance that circumstances requiring us to replace one or more of the current reinsurers under the LPT Agreement will not occur in the future, that we will be successful in replacing such reinsurer or reinsurers in such circumstances, or that the cost of such replacement or replacements will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. The LPT Agreement also required the reinsurers to each place assets supporting the payment of claims by them in individual trusts that require that collateral be held at a specified level. The 43 collateralization level must not be less than the outstanding reserve for losses and a loss expense allowance equal to 7% of estimated paid losses discounted at a rate of 6%. If the assets held in trust fall below this threshold, we can require the reinsurers to contribute additional assets to maintain the required minimum level. The value of these assets at December 31, 2009 was approximately $883.6 million. If the value of the collateral in the trusts drops below the required minimum level and the reinsurers are unable to contribute additional assets, we could be responsible for substituting a new reinsurer or paying those claims without the benefit of reinsurance. One of the reinsurers has collateralized its obligations under the LPT Agreement by placing shares of stock of a publicly held corporation, with a value of $635.2 million at December 31, 2009, in a trust to secure the reinsurer’s obligation of $488.6 million. The value of this collateral is subject to fluctuations in the market price of such stock. The other reinsurers have placed treasury and fixed maturity securities in trusts to collateralize their obligations. For losses incurred by the Fund subsequent to June 30, 1995, we are liable for the entire loss, net of reinsurance purchased by the Fund. If the premiums collected by the Fund for policies written between July 1, 1995 and December 31, 1999 and the investment income earned on those premiums are inadequate to cover these losses, our reserves may prove inadequate and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Intense competition could adversely affect our ability to sell policies at rates we deem adequate. The market for workers’ compensation insurance products is highly competitive. Competition in our business is based on many factors, including premiums charged, services provided, financial ratings assigned by independent rating agencies, speed of claims payments, reputation, policyholder dividends, perceived financial strength and general experience. In some cases, our competitors offer lower priced products than we do. If our competitors offer more competitive premiums, dividends or payment plans, services or commissions to independent agents, brokers and other distributors, we could lose market share or have to reduce our premium rates, which could adversely affect our profitability. We compete with regional and national insurance companies, professional employer organizations, third-party administrators, self-insurance funds and state insurance funds. Our main competitors in each of the states in which we currently operate vary from state to state but are usually those companies that offer a full range of services in underwriting, loss control and claims. We compete on the basis of the services that we offer to our policyholders and on ease of doing business rather than solely on price. Many of our competitors are significantly larger and possess greater financial, marketing and management resources than we do. Some of our competitors benefit financially by not being subject to federal income tax. Intense competitive pressure on prices can result from the actions of even a single large competitor. Competitors with more surplus than us have the potential to expand in our markets more quickly than we can. Additionally, greater financial resources permit an insurer to gain market share through more competitive pricing, even if that pricing results in reduced underwriting margins or an underwriting loss. Many of our competitors are multi-line carriers that can price the workers’ compensation insurance that they offer at a loss in order to obtain other lines of business at a profit. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, new competition could cause the supply or demand for insurance to change, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to realize our investment objectives, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Investment income is an important component of our revenue and net income. As of December 31, 2009, our investment portfolio, excluding cash and cash equivalents, had a fair value of $2.03 billion. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we had $90.5 million of net investment income. Our investment portfolio is managed by an independent asset manager that operates under investment guidelines approved by our Board of Directors. Although these guidelines stress diversification and capital preservation, our investments are subject to a variety of risks that are beyond our control, including risks related to general economic conditions, interest rate fluctuations and market volatility. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. For example, general economic conditions may be adversely affected by U.S. involvement in hostilities with other countries and large-scale acts of 44 terrorism, or the threat of hostilities or terrorist acts. These and other factors affect the capital markets and, consequently, the value of our investment portfolio. The outlook for our investment income is dependent on the future direction of interest rates, maturity schedules and cash flow from operations that is available for investment. The fair values of fixed maturity securities that are “available-for-sale” fluctuate with changes in interest rates and cause fluctuations in our stockholders’ equity. Any significant decline in our investment income as a result of falling interest rates, deterioration in the credit of companies in which we have invested, decreased dividend payments or general market conditions could have an adverse effect on our net income and, as a result, on our stockholders’ equity and policyholders’ surplus. Continued deterioration in the financial markets could lead to investment losses, which may adversely affect liquidity, our financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to significant financial risks related to the capital markets, including the risk of potential economic loss principally arising from adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments. The major components of market risk affecting us are interest rate risk, credit spread risk, credit risk and equity price risk. Interest rate risk. Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the market price, and cash flow variability associated with changes in interest rates. The fixed maturity security portion of our investment portfolio contains interest rate sensitive instruments that may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates resulting from governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions, and other factors beyond our control. A rise in interest rates would decrease the fair value of the investment portfolio, offset by our ability to earn higher rates of return on funds reinvested and new investments. Conversely, a decline in interest rates would increase the fair value of the investment portfolio, offset by lower rates of return on funds reinvested and new investments. We manage interest rate risk by instructing our investment manager to select fixed income investments consistent with our investment strategy. Our portfolio is weighted toward short-term and intermediate-term bonds; however, our investment strategy balances considerations of duration, yield and credit risk. We continually monitor the impact of interest rate risk on our liquidity obligations. Although we take measures to manage the economic risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to mitigate the interest rate risk of our assets relative to our liabilities. Credit spread risk. Our exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in credit spreads, which we attempt to manage through issuer and industry diversification. A widening of credit spreads will decrease the fair value of our investment portfolio; if issuer credit spreads increase significantly or for an extended period of time, it would likely result in higher OTTI charges. Credit spread tightening will reduce net investment income associated with new purchases of fixed maturity securities. Continuing challenges include continued weakness in the real estate market, increased mortgage delinquencies, rating agency downgrades, deleveraging of financial institutions and hedge funds, and a serious dislocation in the interbank market. Credit risk. We are subject to the risk that the issuers of fixed maturity securities we own may default on principal and interest payments they owe us. At December 31, 2009, the fixed maturity securities of $2.0 billion in our investment portfolio represented 96.6% of our total invested assets. Of such total, 64.0% represented fixed maturity securities issued by municipalities, states and U.S. Government obligations. The current economic downturn, acts of corporate malfeasance, widening risk spreads, budgetary deficits, or other events that adversely affect the issuers of these securities could cause the value of our fixed maturity securities portfolio and our net income to decline and the default rate of the fixed maturity securities in our investment portfolio to increase. A ratings downgrade affecting issuers of particular securities, or similar trends that could worsen the credit quality of issuers, such as the corporate issuers of securities in our investment portfolio, could also have a similar effect. Any event reducing the value of the fixed maturity securities we own on other than a temporary basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Equity price risk. Equity price risk is the risk that we may incur losses due to adverse changes in the market prices of the equity securities we hold in our investment portfolio. Any adverse change in 45 market prices of the equity securities decreases the fair value of our investment portfolio and affects our financial condition. In order to minimize equity price risk, we invest primarily in the equity securities of mid-to-large capitalization issuers and seek diversification across several industry sectors. For more information regarding market, interest rate, or credit risk, see Item 7A. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” The determination of the amount of impairments taken on our investments is highly subjective and could materially impact our financial condition and results of operations. We regularly review our entire investment portfolio for declines in value. The determination of the amount of impairments taken on our investments is based on our periodic evaluation and assessment of our investments and known and inherent risks associated with the various asset classes. There can be no assurance that our management has accurately assessed the level of impairments in determining the OTTI reflected in our financial statements. Furthermore, additional impairments may need to be taken in the future. Historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments. An investment in a fixed maturity or equity security is impaired if its fair value falls below its carrying value and the decline is considered to be other-than-temporary. Factors considered in determining whether a decline is other-than-temporary include, but are not limited to, the length of time and the extent to which fair value has been below cost, historical and projected company financial performance and financial condition, the dividend policy of the issuer, whether the decline is issuer or industry specific, the outlook for industry sectors, credit ratings, analyst reports, macro-economic changes and that it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before its expected recovery or maturity. Inherent in management’s evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security and in assessing the prospects for near-term recovery. The valuation of our investments include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our estimate of fair value for our investments are based upon the inputs used in the valuation and give the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets and require that observable inputs be used in the valuations when available. In determining the level of the hierarchy in which the valuation is disclosed, the highest priority is given to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs that reflect the Company’s significant market assumptions. The three levels of the hierarchy are as follows: • Level 1—unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets that we have the ability to access; • Level 2—quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in inactive markets; or valuations based on models where the significant inputs are observable (e.g., interest rates, yield curves, prepayment speeds, default rates, loss severities, etc.) or can be corroborated by observable market data; and • Level 3—valuations based on models where significant inputs are not observable and where the unobservable inputs reflect the Company’s own assumptions about the assumptions that market participants would use. If quoted market prices and an estimate determined by using objectively verifiable information are unavailable, we produce an estimate of fair value based on internally developed valuation techniques. The use of internally developed valuation techniques may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts of our investments and our financial condition. 46 If we cannot obtain adequate or additional capital on favorable terms, including from writing new business and establishing premium rates and reserve levels sufficient to cover losses, we may not have sufficient funds to implement our future growth or operating plans and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our ability to write new business successfully and to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses will generally determine our future capital requirements. If we have to raise additional capital, equity or debt, financing may not be available on terms that are favorable to us. In the case of equity financings, dilution to our stockholders could result. In any case, such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our shares of common stock. In the case of debt financings, we may be subject to covenants that restrict our ability to freely operate our business. If we cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, we may not have sufficient funds to implement our future growth or operating plans and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The capital and credit markets continue to experience extreme volatility and disruption that have negatively impacted market liquidity conditions. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. Continuing disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the financial markets may limit our access to capital required to operate our business, replace maturing debt obligations or access the capital necessary to grow our business. As a result, we may be forced to delay raising capital or be unable to raise capital on favorable terms, or at all, which could decrease our profitability, significantly reduce our financial flexibility and cause rating agencies to reevaluate our financial strength ratings. We have outstanding indebtedness, which could impair our financial strength ratings and adversely affect our ability to react to changes in our business and fulfill our debt obligations. Our indebtedness could have significant consequences, including: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations; • limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts to fund working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, the execution of our business strategy, acquisitions and other purposes; • affecting the way we manage our business due to restrictive covenants; • requiring us to provide collateral which restricts our use of funds; • requiring us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our debt, which would reduce the funds available to us for other purposes; and • making us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions, and limiting our flexibility to plan for, and react quickly to, changing conditions. We rely on our information technology and telecommunication systems, and the failure of these systems could materially and adversely affect our business. Our business is highly dependent upon the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunications systems. We rely on these systems to process new and renewal business, provide customer service, administer and make payments on claims, facilitate collections, and, to automatically underwrite and administer the policies we write. Our main underwriting and policy administration system includes the base systems for underwriting evaluation, quoting, rating, policy issuance and servicing, and endorsements. This system, along with our other systems, enables us to perform actuarial and other modeling functions necessary for underwriting and rate development. The failure of any of our systems, including due to a natural catastrophe, or the termination of any third-party software licenses upon which any of these systems is based, could interrupt our operations or materially impact our ability to evaluate and write new business. As our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such services exceeds capacity or such third-party systems fail or experience interruptions. If sustained or repeated, a system failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of our ability to write and process new and renewal business, provide 47 customer service or compromise our ability to pay claims in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. A breach of security with respect to our systems could also jeopardize the confidentiality of non-public data related to policyholders, claimants, vendors, or our employees, which could harm our reputation and expose us to possible liability. We rely on user authentication capabilities and use data encryption, but there can be no guarantee that advances in computer capabilities, new computer viruses, programming or human errors, or other events or developments would not result in a breach of our security measures, misappropriations of our proprietary information or an interruption of business operations. Acts of terrorism and catastrophes could expose us to potentially substantial losses and, accordingly, could materially adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Under our workers’ compensation policies and applicable laws in the states in which we operate, we are required to provide workers’ compensation benefits for losses arising from acts of terrorism. The impact of any terrorist act is unpredictable, and the ultimate impact on us would depend upon the nature, extent, location and timing of such an act. We would be particularly adversely affected by a terrorist act affecting any metropolitan area where our policyholders have a large concentration of workers. Notwithstanding the protection provided by the reinsurance we have purchased and any protection provided by the 2002 Act, or its extension, the TRIPRA, the risk of severe losses to us from acts of terrorism has not been eliminated because our excess of loss reinsurance treaty program contains various sub- limits and exclusions limiting our reinsurers’ obligation to cover losses caused by acts of terrorism. Our excess of loss reinsurance treaties do not protect against nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events. If such an event were to impact one or more of the businesses we insure, we would be entirely responsible for any workers’ compensation claims arising out of such event, subject to the terms of the 2002 Act, and the TRIPRA and could suffer substantial losses as a result. Under the TRIPRA, federal protection is currently provided to the insurance industry for events, including acts of foreign and domestic terrorism, that result in an industry loss of at least $100 million in 2009. In the event of qualifying industry loss (which must occur out of an act of terrorism certified as such by the Secretary of the Treasury), each insurance company is responsible for a deductible of 20% of direct earned premiums in the previous year, with the federal government responsible for reimbursing each company for 85% of the insurer’s loss in excess of the insurer’s loss, up to the insurer’s proportionate share of the $100 billion industry aggregate limit in any one year. Furthermore, the proposed federal budget plan for fiscal year 2011 includes provisions to scale back the protections provided under the TRIPRA by removing coverage for acts of domestic terrorism, increasing the deductible and allowing the program to expire in 2014. Accordingly, events may not be covered by, or may result in losses exceeding the capacity of, our reinsurance protection and any protection offered by the TRIPRA or any subsequent legislation. Thus, any acts of terrorism could expose us to potentially substantial losses and, accordingly, could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our operations also expose us to claims arising out of catastrophes because we may be required to pay benefits to workers who are injured in the workplace as a result of a catastrophe. Catastrophes can be caused by various unpredictable events, either natural or man-made. Any catastrophe occurring in the states in which we operate could expose us to potentially substantial losses and, accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The insurance business is subject to extensive regulation that limits the way we can operate our business and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and/or limit our growth. We are subject to extensive regulation by the insurance regulatory agencies in each state in which our insurance subsidiaries are licensed and most significantly by the insurance regulators in California, Florida and Nevada, the states in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled. These state agencies have broad regulatory powers designed primarily to protect policyholders, not stockholders or other investors. Regulations vary from state to state, but typically address or include: • standards of solvency, including risk-based capital measurements; 48 • restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments; • restrictions on the types of terms that we can include in the insurance policies we offer; • mandates that may affect wage replacement and medical care benefits paid under the workers’ compensation system; • requirements for the handling and reporting of claims; • procedures for adjusting claims, which can affect the cost of a claim; • restrictions on the way rates are developed and premiums are determined; • the manner in which agents may be appointed; • establishment of liabilities for unearned premiums, unpaid losses and LAE and other purposes; • limitations on our ability to transact business with affiliates; • mergers, acquisitions and divestitures involving our insurance subsidiaries; • licensing requirements and approvals that affect our ability to do business; • compliance with all applicable medical privacy laws; • potential assessments for the settlement of covered claims under insurance policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies or other assessments imposed by regulatory agencies; and • the amount of dividends that our insurance subsidiaries may pay to EGI and, in turn, the ability of EGI to pay dividends to EHI. Workers’ compensation insurance is statutorily provided for in all of the states in which we do business. State laws and regulations provide for the form and content of policy coverage and the rights and benefits that are available to injured workers, their representatives and medical providers. Legislation and regulation also impact our ability to investigate fraud and other abuses of the workers’ compensation systems where we operate. Our relationships with medical providers are also impacted by legislation and regulation, including penalties for the failure to make timely payments. Regulatory authorities have broad discretion to deny or revoke licenses for various reasons, including the violation of regulations. We may be unable to maintain all required approvals or comply fully with the wide variety of applicable laws and regulations, which are continually undergoing revision and which may be interpreted differently among the jurisdictions in which we conduct business, or to comply with the then current interpretation of such laws and regulations. In some instances, where there is uncertainty as to applicability, we follow practices based on our interpretations of regulations or practices that we believe generally to be followed by the industry. These practices may turn out to be different from the interpretations of regulatory authorities. We are also subject to regulatory oversight of the timely payment of workers’ compensation insurance benefits in all the states where we operate. Regulatory authorities may impose monetary fines and penalties if we fail to pay benefits to injured workers and fees to our medical providers in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. The NAIC has developed a system to test the adequacy of statutory capital, known as RBC, which has been adopted by all of the states in which we operate. This system establishes the minimum amount of capital and surplus calculated in accordance with statutory accounting principles necessary for an insurance company to support its overall business operations. It identifies insurers that may be inadequately capitalized by looking at the inherent risks of each insurer’s assets and liabilities and its mix of net premiums written. Insurers falling below a calculated threshold may be subject to varying degrees of regulatory action, including supervision, rehabilitation or liquidation. The need to maintain our risk-based capital levels may prevent us from expanding our business or meeting strategic goals in a timely manner. Failure to maintain our risk-based capital at the required levels could adversely affect the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to maintain regulatory authority to conduct our business. The insurance industry is primarily regulated by individual states; while the federal government does not directly regulate the business of insurance, federal initiatives such as financial services regulation, privacy regulation and tort reform regulation may impact the insurance industry and our company. Proposals intended to control the cost and availability of healthcare services are being 49 debated in the U.S. Congress and state legislatures. Although we neither write health insurance nor assume any healthcare risk, rules affecting healthcare services may affect the workers’ compensation insurance that we do write. Additionally, proposals intended to address global climate change concerns that could affect our business, or businesses that we insure, are being considered in the U.S. Congress and state legislatures. We cannot determine whether any of the above proposals may be adopted by the U.S. Congress or any state legislature or what effect, if any, such adoption would have on us. The current economic conditions have also raised the possibility of future legislative and regulatory actions, in addition to the enactment of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA), which could further impact our business. Additionally, in view of recent events involving certain financial institutions, it is possible that the federal government will heighten its oversight of insurers, such as us, possibly through a federal system of insurance regulation, which the U.S. Congress has considered from time to time. The most recent proposal related to a federal system of insurance regulation, the National Insurance Consumer Protection Act (NICPA), was introduced into the U.S. Congress in April 2009. The NICPA would, among other things, create a federal agency with authority to organize, incorporate, operate, regulate and supervise national insurers, and would establish a systemic risk regulator for all insurance companies. The NICPA would require that certain insurance companies be regulated primarily by the federal government, with other insurers permitted to opt in favor of federal regulation. Additionally, a proposal currently being considered by the U.S. Congress would repeal the McCarran-Ferguson Act of 1945 (McCarran-Ferguson). According to the American Academy of Actuaries, any such repeal would limit the ability of an insurer to share data on which loss estimates, and ultimately premium rates, are based. The repeal of McCarran-Ferguson would have the effect of making the estimation of losses more uncertain, particularly for low-frequency, high-severity, long-tailed lines of business, such as workers’ compensation. We cannot predict whether the proposals described above (or any other proposals) will be adopted, or what impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The extensive regulation of our business may affect the cost or demand for our products and may limit our ability to obtain rate increases or to take other actions that we might pursue to increase our profitability. In addition, we may be unable to maintain all required approvals or comply fully with the wide variety of applicable laws and regulations, which are subject to amendment. Further, changes in the level of regulation of the insurance industry or changes in laws or regulations or interpretations by regulatory authorities could impact our operations, require us to bear additional costs of compliance and impact our profitability. We are a holding company with no direct operations. We depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to transfer funds to us to meet our obligations, and our insurance subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends to us is restricted by law. EHI is a holding company that transacts substantially all of its business through operating subsidiaries. Its primary assets are the shares of stock of our insurance subsidiaries. The ability of EHI to meet obligations on outstanding debt, to pay stockholder dividends and to make other payments, depends on the surplus and earnings of our subsidiaries and their ability to pay dividends or to advance or repay funds, and upon the ability of our insurance subsidiaries, to pay dividends to EGI and, in turn, the ability of EGI to pay dividends to EHI. Payments of dividends by our insurance subsidiaries are restricted by state insurance laws, including laws establishing minimum solvency and liquidity thresholds, and could be subject to contractual restrictions in the future, including those imposed by indebtedness we may incur in the future, see “Item 1—Business—Regulation—Financial, Dividend and Investment Restrictions.” As a result, we may not be able to receive dividends from these subsidiaries and we may not receive dividends in the amounts necessary to meet our obligations or to pay dividends on our common stock. Our profitability may be adversely impacted by inflation, legislative actions and judicial decisions. The effects of inflation, including medical cost inflation, causes claims costs to rise. Our reserve for losses and LAE includes assumptions about future payments for settlement of claims and claims handling expenses, such as medical treatment and litigation costs. In addition, judicial decisions and legislative actions continue to broaden liability and policy definitions and to increase the severity of claims payments. To the extent inflation and these legislative actions and judicial decisions cause claims 50 costs to increase above reserves established for these claims, we will be required to increase our loss reserves with a corresponding reduction in our net income in the period in which the deficiency is identified. Administrative proceedings or legal actions involving our insurance subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our insurance subsidiaries are involved in various administrative proceedings and legal actions in the normal course of their insurance operations. Our subsidiaries have responded to the actions and intend to defend against these claims. These claims concern issues including eligibility for workers’ compensation insurance coverage or benefits, the extent of injuries, wage determinations and disability ratings. Adverse decisions in multiple administrative proceedings or legal actions could require us to pay significant amounts in the aggregate or to change the manner in which we administer claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business is largely dependent on the efforts of our management because of its industry expertise, knowledge of our markets and relationships with the independent agents and brokers that sell our products. The loss of any members of our management team could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse affect on our ability to execute on our strategies. Our success depends in substantial part upon our ability to attract and retain qualified executive officers, experienced underwriting personnel and other skilled employees who are knowledgeable about our business. The current success of our business is dependent in significant part on the efforts of Douglas D. Dirks, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Martin J. Welch, the President and Chief Operating Officer of our insurance subsidiaries, and William E. Yocke, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Many of our regional and local officers are also critical to our operations because of their industry expertise, knowledge of our markets and relationships with the independent agents and brokers who sell our products. We have entered into employment agreements with certain of our key executives. Currently, we do not maintain key man life insurance for our executives or senior management team. If we were to lose the services of members of our management team or key regional or local officers, we may be unable to find replacements satisfactory to us and our business. As a result, our operations may be disrupted and our financial performance may be materially adversely affected. Assessments and other surcharges for guaranty funds, second injury funds and other mandatory pooling arrangements may reduce our profitability. All states require insurance companies licensed to do business in their state to bear a portion of the unfunded obligations of insolvent insurance companies. These obligations are funded by assessments, which can be expected to continue in the future in the states in which we operate. Assessments are levied by guaranty associations within the state, up to prescribed limits, on all insurers doing business in that state on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by insurers doing business in that state in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer is engaged. Maximum contributions required by law in any one state in which we currently offer insurance vary between 0.2% and 2.0% of premiums written. We recorded an estimate of $4.5 million and $4.6 million for our expected liability for guaranty fund assessments at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The assessments levied on us may increase as we increase our premiums written or if we write business in additional states. In some states, we receive a credit against our premium taxes for guaranty fund assessments. The effect of these assessments or changes in them could reduce our profitability in any given period or limit our ability to grow our business. Most states have laws that provide for second injury funds that protect employers from higher insurance costs that can occur when a subsequent injury combines with a prior disability to result in substantially increased medical or disability costs than the subsequent injury alone would have produced. This protects an employer from loss or increased insurance cost because it hires or retains an employee who has a disability. Funding is provided pursuant to individual state statutes or regulations, and typically is made by assessments on insurance companies based on premiums written, losses paid by the fund or losses paid by the insurance industry. Further, as a condition to conducting business in some states, insurance companies are required to participate in mandatory worker’s compensation shared market mechanisms, or pooling arrangements. 51 These arrangements provide workers’ compensation insurance coverage to businesses that are otherwise unable to obtain coverage due, for example, to their prior loss experience. Although we price our product to account for the obligations that we may have under these pooling arrangements, we may not be successful in estimating our liability for these obligations. Accordingly, our prices may not fully account for our liabilities under pooling arrangements, which may cause a decrease in our profits. Further, insolvency of other insurance companies in these pooling arrangements would likely increase the liability of other members in the pool. The effect of these assessments and mandatory shared market mechanisms or changes in them could reduce our profitability or limit our ability to grow our business. Risk Related to Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may decrease, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, among others: • the performance of the stock market generally and the financial industry and insurance companies specifically; • quarterly variations in our results of operations; • changes in expectations as to our future results of operations, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; • announcements of claims against us by third parties; • departures of key personnel; • changes in law and regulation; • results of operations that vary from those expected by securities analysts and investors; and • future sales of shares of our common stock. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant volatility that often has been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies whose shares are traded. These market fluctuations could adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. As a result, the trading price of shares of our common stock may decrease and you may not be able to sell your shares at or above the price you paid to purchase them. Insurance laws of Nevada, California, Florida and other applicable states, certain provisions of our charter documents and Nevada corporation law could prevent or delay a change of control and could also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Under Nevada insurance law and our amended and restated articles of incorporation that became effective upon completion of the conversion, for a period of five years following February 5, 2007 or, if earlier, until such date as we no longer directly or indirectly own a majority of the outstanding voting stock of EICN, no person may directly or indirectly acquire or offer to acquire in any manner beneficial ownership of 5% or more of any class of our voting securities without the prior approval of the Nevada Commissioner, see “Item 1—Business—Regulation—Change of Control.” Additionally, we have insurance subsidiaries domiciled in California and Florida. The insurance laws of California and Florida require prior approval from the California DOI and the Florida OIR for any change of control of the subsidiary domiciled in their respective states. Insurance laws in many other states also contain provisions that require pre-notification to the insurance commissioners of a change in control of a non-domestic insurance company licensed in those states. In Florida, “control” is generally presumed to exist through the direct or indirect ownership of 5% or more of the voting securities of a domestic insurance company or of any entity that controls a domestic insurance company, while in California and Nevada, “control” is presumed to exist through the direct or indirect ownership of 10% or more of the voting securities of a domestic insurance company or of any entity that controls a domestic insurance company. Because we have insurance subsidiaries domiciled in California, Florida and Nevada any future transaction that would constitute a change in control of us would generally require the party acquiring control to obtain the prior approval of the California Commissioner, Florida 52 Commissioner and the Nevada Commissioner and may require pre-notification in those states that have adopted pre-notification provisions upon a change of control. Obtaining these approvals may result in a material delay of, or deter, any such transaction. These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals or tender offers, and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control, even if the acquisition proposal or tender offer is at a premium over the then current market price for our common stock and beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws could discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of us, even if our stockholders might consider such a change in control to be in their best interests. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect Directors and take other corporate actions. In particular, our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws include provisions: • dividing our Board of Directors into three classes; • eliminating the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; • permitting our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock in one or more series; • imposing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at the stockholder meetings; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby limiting stockholder action to that taken at a meeting of our stockholders; and • providing our Board of Directors with exclusive authority to adopt or amend our by-laws. These provisions may make it difficult for stockholders to replace directors and could have the effect of discouraging a future takeover attempt which is not approved by our Board of Directors, but which stockholders might consider favorable. Additionally, these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 53 