Item 1A. Risk Factors Please note that any risk, uncertainty or other factor that has a material adverse effect on the financial position, results of operations or cash flows of the businesses in our new segment IPH may not result in a material adverse effect on the financial position, results of operations or cash flows of Dynegy on a consolidated basis due to the size of Dynegy on a consolidated basis relative to the size of the IPH segment or due to the ring-fenced structuring of IPH and its subsidiaries. However, you should review the risk factor regarding the IPH ring-fenced structure and the risk that a creditor of IPH, or a bankruptcy trustee if any entity of the IPH segment were to become a debtor in bankruptcy, may nevertheless be successful in subjecting Dynegy to the claims of IPH and its subsidiaries.FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTSThis Form 10-K includes statements reflecting assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions or beliefs about future events that are intended as “forward-looking statements.” All statements included or incorporated by reference in this annual report, other than statements of historical fact, that address activities, events or developments that we expect, believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. These statements represent our reasonable judgment on the future based on various factors and using numerous assumptions and are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results and financial position to differ materially from those contemplated by the statements. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They use words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “project,” “forecast,” “plan,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “expect” and other words of similar meaning. In particular, these include, but are not limited to, statements relating to the following:•anticipated benefits and expected synergies resulting from the AER Acquisition and beliefs associated with the integration of operations;•lack of comparable financial data due to the application of fresh-start accounting; •expectations regarding our compliance with the Credit Agreement, including collateral demands, interest expense, any applicable financial ratios and other payments;•efforts to secure retail sales and the timing of such sales;•the timing and anticipated benefits to be achieved through our company-wide savings improvement programs, including our PRIDE initiative;•efforts to identify opportunities to reduce congestion and improve busbar power prices;•expectations regarding environmental matters, including costs of compliance, availability and adequacy of emission credits and the impact of ongoing proceedings and potential regulations or changes to current regulations, including those relating to climate change, air emissions, cooling water intake structures, coal combustion byproducts and other laws and regulations to which we are, or could become, subject;•beliefs, assumptions and projections regarding the demand for power, generation volumes and commodity pricing, including natural gas prices and the timing of a recovery in natural gas prices, if any;•sufficiency of, access to and costs associated with coal, fuel oil and natural gas inventories and transportation thereof;•beliefs and assumptions about market competition, generation capacity and regional supply and demand characteristics of the wholesale and retail power generation market, including the anticipation of higher market pricing over the longer term;•the effectiveness of our strategies to capture opportunities presented by changes in commodity prices and to manage our exposure to energy price volatility;•beliefs and assumptions about weather and general economic conditions;•projected operating or financial results, including anticipated cash flows from operations, revenues and profitability;23•our focus on safety and our ability to efficiently operate our assets so as to capture revenue generating opportunities and operating margins;•beliefs about the costs and scope of the ongoing demolition and site remediation efforts at the South Bay and Vermilion facilities;•beliefs regarding successful renegotiation of the IBEW Local 1245 collective bargaining agreement; •beliefs regarding redevelopment efforts for the Morro Bay facility;•beliefs and assumptions regarding approval by the CPUC of the SCE 2016 transaction for Moss Landing Units 6 & 7;•ability to mitigate impacts associated with expiring RMR and/or capacity contracts;•beliefs about the outcome of legal, administrative, legislative and regulatory matters; and•expectations regarding performance standards and capital and maintenance expenditures.Any or all of our forward-looking statements may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, including those set forth below.FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS Risks Related to the Operation of Our BusinessBecause wholesale and retail power prices are subject to significant volatility and because many of our power generation facilities operate without long-term power sales agreements, our revenues and profitability are subject to wide fluctuations.Because we largely sell electric energy, capacity and ancillary services into the wholesale energy spot market or into other wholesale and retail power markets on a term basis, we are not guaranteed any rate of return on our capital investments. Rather, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will depend, in large part, upon prevailing market prices for power and the fuel to generate such power. Wholesale and retail power markets are subject to significant price fluctuations over relatively short periods of time and can be unpredictable. Such factors that may materially impact the power markets and our financial results include:•the existence and effectiveness of demand-side management;•conservation efforts and the extent to which they impact electricity demand;•addition of new supplies of power from existing competitors or new market entrants as a result of the development of new generation plants, expansion of existing plants or additional transmission capacity; •regulatory constraints on pricing (current or future) or the functioning of the energy trading markets and energy trading generally;•environmental regulations and legislation;•weather conditions, including extreme weather conditions, and seasonal fluctuations;•electric supply disruptions including plant outages;•basis risk from transmission losses and congestion and changes in power transmission infrastructure;•development of new technologies for the production of natural gas;•fuel price volatility; •economic conditions; and•increased competition or price pressure driven by generation from renewable sources.Many of our facilities operate as “merchant” facilities without long-term power sales agreements. Consequently, there can be no assurance that we will be able to sell any or all of the electric energy, capacity or ancillary services from those facilities at commercially attractive rates or that our facilities will be able to operate profitably. This could lead to less favorable financial results as well as future impairments of our property, plant and equipment or to the retirement of certain of our facilities resulting in economic losses and liabilities.Given the volatility of commodity power prices, to the extent we do not secure long-term power sales agreements for the output of our power generation facilities, our revenues and profitability will be subject to increased volatility, and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. 24Our commercial strategies for our wholesale and retail businesses may not be executed as planned, may result in lost opportunities or adversely affect financial performance. We seek to commercialize our assets through sales arrangements of various types. In doing so, we attempt to balance a desire for greater predictability of earnings and cash flows in the short- and medium-terms with our expectation that commodity prices will rise over the longer term, creating upside opportunities for those with unhedged generation volumes. Our ability to successfully execute this strategy is dependent on a number of factors, many of which are outside our control, including market liquidity and design, correlation risk, commodity cycles, the availability of counterparties willing to transact with us or to transact with us at prices we think are commercially acceptable, the availability of liquidity to post collateral in support of our derivative instruments and the reliability of the systems and models comprising our commercial operations function. The availability of market liquidity and willing counterparties could be negatively impacted by poor economic and financial market conditions, including impacts on financial institutions and other current and potential counterparties as well as counterparties’ views of our creditworthiness. If we are unable to transact in the short- and medium-terms, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be subject to significant uncertainty and volatility. Alternatively, significant contract execution for any such period may precede a run-up in commodity prices, resulting in lost up-side opportunities.Further, financial performance may be adversely affected if we are unable to effectively manage our power portfolio. A portion of the generation power portfolio is used to provide power under contracts with wholesale and retail customers. To the extent portions of the power portfolio are not needed for that purpose, generation output is sold in the wholesale market. To the extent our power portfolio is not sufficient to meet the requirements of our customers; we must purchase power in the wholesale power markets. Our financial results may be negatively affected if we are unable to manage the power portfolio and cost-effectively meet the requirements of our customers.A decline in market liquidity and our ability to manage our counterparty credit risk could adversely affect us.Our supplier counterparties may experience deteriorating credit. These conditions could cause counterparties in the natural gas and power markets, particularly in the energy commodity derivative markets that we rely on for our hedging activities, to withdraw from participation in those markets. If multiple parties withdraw from those markets, market liquidity may be threatened, which in turn could adversely impact our business. Additionally, these conditions may cause our counterparties to seek bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 or liquidation under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code. Our credit risk may be exacerbated to the extent collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the exposure due to us. There can be no assurance that any such losses or impairments to the carrying value of our financial assets would not materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, retail sales subject us to credit risk through competitive electricity supply activities to serve commercial and industrial companies and governmental entities. Retail credit risk results when customers default on their contractual obligations. This risk represents the loss that may be incurred due to the nonpayment of a customer’s account balance, as well as the loss from the resale of energy previously committed to serve that customer, which could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.We are exposed to the risk of fuel and fuel transportation cost increases and interruptions in fuel supplies.We purchase the fuel requirements for many of our power generation facilities, primarily those that are natural gas-fired, under short-term contracts or on the spot market. As a result, we face the risks of supply interruptions and fuel price volatility, as fuel deliveries may not exactly match those required for energy sales.Moreover, profitable operation of many of our coal-fired generation facilities is highly dependent on coal prices and coal transportation rates. We monitor our price exposure by entering into term contracts for PRB coal, which we use for our Coal and IPH facilities in the Midwest. Our coal transportation requirements for the Coal and IPH facilities are fully contracted and priced for the next several years. Transportation of PRB coal can also be affected by extreme weather, slowing or stopping the delivery from the mine to the facility. We continue to explore various alternative contractual commitments and financial options, as well as facility modifications, to ensure stable and competitive fuel supplies and to mitigate further supply risks for near- and long-term coal supplies.Further, any changes in the costs of coal, fuel oil, natural gas or transportation rates and changes in the relationship between such costs and the market prices of power will affect our financial results. If we are unable to procure fuel for physical delivery at prices we consider favorable, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. 25The concentration of our business in Illinois and the MISO may increase the effects of adverse trends in that market and any disruption of production at Kendall, Ontelaunee, Independence or Moss Landing facilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A substantial portion of our business is located in Illinois and the MISO where more than 50 percent of our plant capacity is located. Further, natural disasters in Illinois, including earthquakes along the New Madrid fault line, and changes in economic conditions in MISO, including changing demographics, congestion, or oversupply of or reduced demand for power, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, a substantial portion of our gross margin is derived from four of our Gas facilities, Kendall, Ontelaunee, Independence and Moss Landing. Any disruption of production at these facilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Operation of power generation facilities involves significant risks customary to the power industry that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The ongoing operation of our facilities involves risks customary to the power industry that include the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, performance below expected levels of output or efficiency and the inability to transport our product to customers in an efficient manner due to a lack of transmission capacity. Unplanned outages of generating units, including extensions of scheduled outages due to mechanical failures or other problems, occur from time to time and are an inherent risk of our business. Further, several of our facilities are old and require periodic upgrading and improvement. Any unexpected failure, including failure associated with breakdowns, forced outages or any unanticipated capital expenditures, could result in reduced profitability. Unplanned outages typically increase our operation and maintenance expenses and may reduce our revenues as a result of selling fewer MW or require us to incur significant costs as a result of running one of our higher cost units or obtaining replacement power from third parties in the open market to satisfy our forward power sales obligations. If we are unsuccessful in operating our facilities efficiently, such inefficiency could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our costs of compliance with existing environmental requirements are significant, and costs of compliance with new environmental requirements or factors could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Our business is subject to extensive and frequently changing environmental regulation by federal, state and local authorities. Such environmental regulation imposes, among other things, restrictions, liabilities and obligations in connection with the generation, handling, use, transportation, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and waste and in connection with spills, releases and emissions of various substances (including GHG) into the environment, and in connection with environmental impacts associated with cooling water intake structures. Existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised or reinterpreted, new laws and regulations may be adopted or may become applicable to us or our facilities, and litigation or enforcement proceedings could be commenced against us. Proposals being considered by federal and state authorities (including proposals regarding regulation of coal combustion byproducts, ash ponds, cooling water intake structures and GHGs) could, if and when adopted or enacted, require us to make substantial capital and operating expenditures or consider retiring certain of our facilities. If any of these events occur, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.Many environmental laws require approvals or permits from governmental authorities before construction, modification or operation of a power generation facility may commence. Certain environmental permits must be renewed periodically in order for us to continue operating our facilities. The process of obtaining and renewing necessary permits can be lengthy and complex and can sometimes result in the establishment of permit conditions that make the project or activity for which the permit was sought unprofitable or otherwise unattractive. Even where permits are not required, compliance with environmental laws and regulations can require significant capital and operating expenditures. We are required to comply with numerous environmental laws and regulations, and to obtain numerous governmental permits when we modify and operate our facilities. If there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approvals or permits, if we fail to obtain any required approval or permit, or if we are unable to comply with the terms of such approvals or permits, the operation of our facilities may be interrupted or become subject to additional costs and/or legal challenges. Further, changed interpretations of existing regulations may subject historical maintenance, repair and replacement activities at our facilities to claims of noncompliance. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. With the continuing trend toward stricter environmental standards and more extensive regulatory and permitting requirements, our capital and operating environmental expenditures are likely to be substantial and may significantly increase in the future.26Our business is subject to complex government regulation. Changes in these regulations or in their implementation may affect costs of operating our facilities or our ability to operate our facilities, or increase competition, any of which would negatively impact our results of operations.We are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the generation and sale of energy commodities in each of the jurisdictions in which we have operations. Compliance with these ever-changing laws and regulations requires expenses (including legal representation) and monitoring, capital and operating expenditures. Potential changes in laws and regulations that could have a material impact on our business include: the introduction, or reintroduction, of rate caps or pricing constraints; increased credit standards, collateral costs or margin requirements, as well as reduced market liquidity, as a result of potential OTC market regulation; or a variation of these. Furthermore, these and other market-based rules and regulations are subject to change at any time, and we cannot predict what changes may occur in the future or how such changes might affect any facet of our business.The costs and burdens associated with complying with the increased number of regulations may have a material adverse effect on us if we fail to comply with the laws and regulations governing our business or if we fail to maintain or obtain advantageous regulatory authorizations and exemptions. Moreover, increased competition within the sector resulting from potential legislative changes, regulatory changes or other factors may create greater risks to the stability of our power generation earnings and cash flows generally.Availability and cost of emission allowances could materially impact our costs of operations.We are required to maintain, either through allocation or purchase, sufficient emission allowances to support our operations in the ordinary course of operating our power generation facilities. These allowances are used to meet our obligations imposed by various applicable environmental laws, and the trend toward more stringent regulations (including regulations regarding GHG emissions) will likely require us to obtain new or additional emission allowances. If our operational needs require more than our allocated quantity of emission allowances, we may be forced to purchase such allowances on the open market, which could be costly. If we are unable to maintain sufficient emission allowances to match our operational needs, we may have to curtail our operations so as not to exceed our available emission allowances, or install costly new emissions controls. As we use the emissions allowances that we have purchased on the open market, costs associated with such purchases will be recognized as an operating expense. If such allowances are available for purchase, but only at significantly higher prices, their purchase could materially increase our costs of operations in the affected markets and materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Competition in wholesale and retail power markets, together with the age of certain of our generation facilities and an oversupply of power generation capacity in certain regional markets, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Our power generation business competes with other non-utility generators, regulated utilities, unregulated subsidiaries of regulated utilities, other energy service companies and financial institutions in the sale of electric energy, capacity and ancillary services, as well as in the procurement of fuel, transmission and transportation services. Moreover, aggregate demand for power may be met by generation capacity based on several competing technologies, as well as power generating facilities fueled by alternative or renewable energy sources, including hydroelectric power, synthetic fuels, solar, wind, wood, geothermal, waste heat and solid waste sources. Regulatory initiatives designed to enhance and/or subsidize renewable generation could increase competition from these types of facilities. In addition, a buildup of new electric generation facilities in recent years has resulted in an oversupply of power generation capacity in certain regional markets we serve.We also compete against other energy merchants on the basis of our relative operating skills, financial position and access to credit sources. Electric energy customers, wholesale energy suppliers and transporters often seek financial guarantees, credit support such as letters of credit, and other assurances that their energy contracts will be satisfied. Companies with which we compete may have greater resources in these areas. In addition, certain of our current facilities are relatively old. Newer plants owned by competitors will often be more efficient than some of our plants, which may put these plants at a competitive disadvantage. Over time, some of our plants may become unable to compete because of the construction of new plants, and such new plants could have a number of advantages including: more efficient equipment, newer technology that could result in fewer emissions, or more advantageous locations on the electric transmission system. Additionally, these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new laws and regulations because of the newer technology utilized in their facilities or the additional resources derived from owning more efficient facilities. Taken as a whole, the potential disadvantages of our aging fleet could result in lower run-times or even early asset retirement.Other factors may contribute to increased competition in wholesale power markets. New forms of capital and competitors have entered the industry, including financial investors who perceive that asset values are at levels below their true replacement value. As a result, a number of generation facilities in the U.S. are now owned by lenders and investment companies. Furthermore, 27mergers and asset reallocations in the industry could create powerful new competitors. Under any scenario, we anticipate that we will face competition from numerous companies in the industry.In addition, the retail marketing activities compete for customers in a competitive environment, which impacts the margins that we can earn on the volumes we are able to serve. Further, with retail competition, residential customers where we serve load can switch to and from competitive electric generation suppliers for their energy needs. If fewer customers switch to another supplier than anticipated, the load we must serve will be greater and, if market prices have increased, our costs will increase due to the need to go to the market to cover the incremental supply obligation. If more customers switch to another supplier than anticipated, the load we must serve will be lower and, if market prices have decreased, we could lose opportunities in the market.Moreover, many companies in the regulated utility industry, with which the wholesale power industry is closely linked, are also restructuring or reviewing their strategies. Several of those companies have discontinued or are discontinuing their unregulated activities and seeking to divest or spin-off their unregulated subsidiaries. Some of those companies have had, or are attempting to have, their regulated subsidiaries acquire assets out of their or other companies’ unregulated subsidiaries. This may lead to increased competition between the regulated utilities and the unregulated power producers within certain markets. To the extent that competition increases, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected.With the exception of Joppa, we do not own or control transmission facilities required to sell the wholesale power from our generation facilities. If the transmission service is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver wholesale power may be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, these transmission facilities are operated by RTOs and ISOs, which are subject to changes in structure and operation and impose various pricing limitations. These changes and pricing limitations may affect our ability to deliver power to the market that would, in turn, adversely affect the profitability of our generation facilities. Other than for Joppa, which owns and controls transmission lines interconnecting the EEI control area to MISO, TVA and LGE, we do not own or control the transmission facilities required to sell the wholesale power from most of our generation facilities. If the transmission service from these facilities is unavailable or disrupted, or if the transmission capacity infrastructure is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver wholesale power may be materially adversely affected. RTOs and ISOs provide transmission services, administer transparent and competitive power markets and maintain system reliability. Many of these RTOs and ISOs operate in the real-time and day-ahead markets in which we sell energy. The RTOs and ISOs that oversee most of the wholesale power markets impose, and in the future may continue to impose, offer caps and other mechanisms to guard against the potential exercise of market power in these markets as well as price limitations. These types of price limitations and other regulatory mechanisms may adversely affect the profitability of our generation facilities that sell energy and capacity into the wholesale power markets. Problems or delays that may arise in the formation and operation of maturing RTOs and similar market structures, or changes in geographic scope, rules or market operations of existing RTOs, may also affect our ability to sell, the prices we receive or the cost to transmit power produced by our generating facilities. Rules governing the various regional power markets may also change from time to time, which could affect our costs or revenues. Additionally, if the transmission service from these facilities is unavailable or disrupted, or if the transmission capacity infrastructure is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver wholesale power may be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, the rates for transmission capacity from these facilities are set by others and thus are subject to changes, some of which could be significant. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected.Our Retail business is subject to the risk that sensitive customer data may be compromised, which could result in an adverse impact to its reputation and/or the results of operations of the Retail business.The Retail business requires access to sensitive customer data in the ordinary course of business. Examples of sensitive customer data are names, addresses, account information, historical electricity usage, expected patterns of use, payment history, credit bureau data and bank account information. The Retail business may need to provide sensitive customer data to vendors and service providers who require access to this information in order to provide services, such as call center operations, to the Retail business. If a significant breach occurred, our reputation and that of Homefield Energy's may be adversely affected, customer confidence may be diminished, or we may be subject to legal claims, any of which may contribute to the loss of customers and have a negative impact on the business and/or financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Unauthorized hedging and related activities by our employees could result in significant losses. We intend to continue our commercial strategy, which emphasizes forward power sales opportunities intended to reduce the market price exposure of the Company to power price declines. We have various internal policies and procedures designed to monitor hedging activities and positions. These policies and procedures are designed, in part, to prevent unauthorized purchases or sales of products by our employees. We cannot assure, however, that these steps will detect and prevent all violations of our risk management policies and procedures, particularly if deception or other intentional misconduct is involved. A significant policy violation that is not detected could result in a substantial financial loss for us. 28Our risk management policies cannot fully eliminate the risk associated with our commodity trading activities. Our asset-based power position as well as our power marketing, fuel procurement and other commodity trading activities expose us to risks of commodity price movements. We attempt to manage this exposure through enforcement of established risk limits and risk management procedures. These risk limits and risk management procedures may not work as planned and cannot eliminate all risks associated with these activities. Even when its policies and procedures are followed, and decisions are made based on projections and estimates of future performance, results of operations may be diminished if the judgments and assumptions underlying those decisions prove to be incorrect. Factors, such as future prices and demand for power and other energy-related commodities, become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future estimates are made. As a result, we cannot predict the impact that our commodity trading activities and risk management decisions may have on our business and/or financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would be adversely impacted by strikes or work stoppages by our unionized employees.A majority of the employees at our facilities are subject to collective bargaining agreements with various unions. Additionally, unionization activities, including votes for union certification, could occur at our non-union generating facilities in our fleet. If union employees strike, participate in a work stoppage or slowdown or engage in other forms of labor strike or disruption, we could experience reduced power generation or outages if replacement labor is not procured. The ability to procure such replacement labor is uncertain. Strikes, work stoppages or an inability to negotiate future collective bargaining agreements on commercially reasonable terms could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Failure to successfully integrate IPH's coal generation and retail marketing business with our existing generation business may materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.The success of the AER Acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and synergies from adding IPH's coal generation and retail marketing business to our existing generation business. To realize these anticipated benefits, the businesses must complement each other. If the businesses are not able to achieve our objectives, on a timely basis, the anticipated benefits of the transactions may not be realized fully or at all. In addition, integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses, which could reduce the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. These integration difficulties could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The IPH segment’s ring-fencing structure may not work as planned and Dynegy may be subject to the claims of the creditors of IPH and its subsidiaries.In connection with the AER Acquisition, IPH and its direct and indirect subsidiaries were organized into ring-fenced groups. The entities within the IPH ring-fenced structure maintain corporate separateness from our other current legal entities. This structure was implemented, in part, to minimize the risk that creditors of IPH, or a bankruptcy trustee if any entity of the IPH segment were to become a debtor in a bankruptcy case, would attempt to assert claims against Dynegy for payment of IPH's obligations. We believe the ring-fenced structure should preclude any corporate veil-piercing or other similar claims of IPH’s creditors but, if any such claims were successful, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We also believe the ring-fenced structure should preclude any bankruptcy court from ordering the substantive consolidation of Dynegy’s assets and liabilities with the assets and liabilities of any IPH debtor in bankruptcy. However, bankruptcy courts have broad equitable powers, and as a result, outcomes in bankruptcy proceedings are inherently difficult to predict. To the extent a bankruptcy court were to determine that substantive consolidation was appropriate under the facts and circumstances, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Terrorist attacks and/or cyber-attacks may result in our inability to operate and fulfill our obligations, and could result in material repair costs. As a power generator, we face heightened risk of terrorism, including cyber terrorism, either by a direct act against one or more of our generating facilities or an act against the transmission and distribution infrastructure that is used to transport our power. We rely on information technology networks and systems to operate our generating facilities, engage in asset management activities, and process, transmit and store electronic information. Security breaches of this information technology infrastructure, including cyber-attacks and cyber terrorism, could lead to system disruptions, generating facility shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information related to our employees, vendors and counterparties.Systemic damage to one or more of our generating facilities and/or to the transmission and distribution infrastructure could result in our inability to operate in one or all of the markets we serve for an extended period of time. If our generating facilities are shut down, we would be unable to respond to the ISOs and RTOs or fulfill our obligations under various energy and/or capacity arrangements, resulting in lost revenues and potential fines, penalties and other liabilities. Pervasive cyber-29attacks across our industry could affect the ability of ISOs and RTOs to function in some regions. The cost to restore our generating facilities after such an occurrence could be material.Risks Related to Our Financial Structure, Level of Indebtedness and Access to Capital Markets Restrictive covenants may adversely affect operations.The Credit Agreement and Senior Notes contain various covenants that limit our ability to, among other things:•incur additional indebtedness;•pay dividends, repurchase or redeem stock or make investments in certain entities;•enter into related party transactions;•create certain liens;•enter into any agreements which limit the ability of certain subsidiaries to make dividends or otherwise transfer cash or assets to us or certain other subsidiaries;•consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and•sell and acquire assets.In addition, the Credit Agreement contains a financial covenant, if we have utilized 25 percent or more of our Revolving Facility, that specifies maximum thresholds for our senior secured leverage ratio (as defined in the Credit Agreement). All of these restrictions may affect our ability to operate our respective businesses, may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise and may adversely affect the conduct of our current businesses, including restricting our ability to finance future operations and capital needs and limiting our ability to engage in other business activities. Our non-investment grade status may adversely impact our commercial operations, increase our liquidity requirements and increase the cost of refinancing opportunities. We may not have adequate liquidity to post required amounts of additional collateral.Our corporate family credit rating is currently below investment grade and we cannot assure you that our credit ratings will improve, or that they will not decline, in the future. Our credit ratings may affect the evaluation of our creditworthiness by trading counterparties and lenders, which could put us at a disadvantage to competitors with higher or investment grade ratings. We use a portion of our capital resources, in the form of cash, short-term investments, lien capacity and letters of credit, to satisfy these counterparty collateral demands. Our commodity agreements are tied to market pricing and may require us to post additional collateral under certain circumstances. If we are unable to reliably forecast or anticipate collateral calls or if market conditions change such that counterparties are entitled to additional collateral, our liquidity could be strained and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Factors that could trigger increased demands for collateral include changes in our credit rating or liquidity and changes in commodity prices for power and fuel, among others. Should our ratings continue at their current levels, or should our ratings be further downgraded, we would expect these negative effects to continue and, in the case of a downgrade, become more pronounced.Risks Related to InvestingInformation contained in our historical financial statements prior to the Plan Effective Date is not comparable to the information contained in our financial statements following the Plan Effective Date due to the application of fresh-start accounting.Following the consummation of the Plan, our financial condition and results of operations from and after the Plan Effective Date will not be comparable to the financial condition or results of operations reflected in our historical financial statements due to the application of fresh-start accounting. Fresh-start accounting requires us to adjust our assets and liabilities to their estimated fair values using the acquisition method. Adjustments to the carrying amounts were material and will affect prospective results of operations as balance sheet items are settled, depreciated, amortized or impaired. As a result, this will make it difficult to assess our performance in relation to prior periods. We may pursue acquisitions or combinations that could be unsuccessful or present unanticipated problems for our business in the future, which would adversely affect our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of those transactions.We may enter into transactions that include acquiring or combining with other businesses. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition or combination opportunities or financing to complete any particular acquisition or combination successfully. Furthermore, acquisitions and combinations involve a number of risks and challenges, including:•the ability to obtain required regulatory and other approvals;•the need to integrate acquired or combined operations with our operations;•potential loss of key employees;30•difficulty in evaluating the assets, operating costs, infrastructure requirements, environmental and other liabilities and other factors beyond our control;•potential lack of operating experience in new geographic/power markets or with different fuel sources;•an increase in our expenses and working capital requirements; •management’s attention may be temporarily diverted; and•the possibility that we may be required to issue a substantial amount of additional equity and/or debt securities or assume additional debt in connection with any such transactions.Any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to achieve anticipated levels of cash flows or realize synergies or other anticipated benefits from a strategic transaction. Furthermore, the market for transactions is highly competitive, which may adversely affect our ability to find transactions that fit our strategic objectives or increase the price we would be required to pay (which could decrease the benefit of the transaction or hinder our desire or ability to consummate the transaction). Consistent with industry practice, we routinely engage in discussions with industry participants regarding potential transactions, large and small. We intend to continue to engage in strategic discussions and will need to respond to potential opportunities quickly and decisively. As a result, strategic transactions may occur at any time and may be significant in size relative to our assets and operations.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNot applicable.