Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves risks. In evaluating our company, you should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all the information included in this annual report. The risks facing our company include, but are not limited to, those described below. The occurrence of one or more of these events could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and stock price and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business Difficult conditions in the economy and capital markets may adversely affect our profitability, financial condition and results of operations. The significant financial market volatility experienced worldwide during 2008 and 2009 continued into 2010. Although the U.S. and other foreign governments have taken various actions to stabilize the financial markets, it is uncertain whether those actions will be effective over the long-term. Therefore, the financial market volatility could continue, resulting in a prolonged negative economic impact. We cannot predict future market conditions or their impact on our stock price, investment portfolio, or our workers' compensation business. In addition, continuing financial market volatility and economic downturn could have a material adverse affect on our insureds, agents, claimants, reinsurers, vendors, and competitors. Depending on financial market conditions, we could incur additional realized and unrealized losses in the future in our investment portfolio, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Reduced employment and payrolls have contributed to the decline in our premium. Selection of customers is more complex as certain businesses are facing unprecedented challenges in sustaining their operations. Over time we expect that recovery from the recession will improve hiring and payro ll trends, but we cannot predict when this will occur. Our liability for losses and LAE is based on estimates and may be inadequate to cover our actual losses and expenses. We must establish and maintain reserves for our estimated losses and LAE. We establish loss reserves in our financial statements that represent an estimate of amounts needed to pay and administer claims with respect to insured claims that have occurred, including claims that have occurred but have not yet been reported to us. Loss reserves are estimates of the ultimate cost of individual claims based on actuarial estimation techniques, are inherently uncertain, and do not represent an exact measure of liability. Several factors contribute to the uncertainty in establishing estimated losses, including the length of time to settle long-term, severe cases, claim cost inflation (deflation) trends, and uncertainties in the long-term outcome of the 2003 and 2004 legislative reforms in California and the 2003 legislative reforms in Florida. Judgment is required in applying actuarial techniques to determine the relevance of historical payment and claim settlement patterns under current facts and circumstances. In certain states, we have a relatively short operating history and must rely on a combination of industry experience and our specific experience to establish our best estimate of reserves for losses and LAE. The interpretation of historical data can be impacted by external forces, principally legislative changes, medical cost inflation, economi c fluctuations, judicial decisions, and legal trends. As we receive new information and update our assumptions over time regarding the ultimate liability, our loss reserves may prove to be inadequate to cover our actual losses. Any changes in these estimates could be material and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition during the period the changes are made. Our estimates of incurred losses and LAE attributable to insured events of prior years have decreased for past accident years because actual losses and LAE paid and current projections of unpaid losses and LAE were less than we originally anticipated. These estimates are established by management utilizing actuarial indications based upon our historical and industry experience regarding claims emergence and payment patterns, medical cost inflation, and claim cost trends, adjusted for future anticipated changes in claims-related and economic trends, as well as regulatory and legislative changes, to establish our best estimate of reserves for losses and LAE. While we have generally had favorable developments over the past five years, the inherent uncertainty in our liability for losses and LAE could result in favorable or unfavorable dev elopments in the future. 21 The insurance business is subject to extensive regulation and legislative changes, which impact the manner in which we operate our business. Our insurance business is subject to extensive regulation by the applicable state agencies in the jurisdictions in which we operate, most significantly by the insurance regulators in California, Florida, and Nevada, the states in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled. As of December 31, 2010, 53.8% of our in-force premiums were generated in California. Accordingly, we are particularly affected by regulation in California. The passage of any form of rate regulation in California could impair our ability to operate profitably in California, and any such impairment could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Insurance regulators have broad regulatory powers designed to protect policyholders and claimants, not stockholders or other investors. Regulations vary from state to state, but typically address or include: • standards of solvency, including risk-based capital measurements; • restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments; • restrictions on the types of terms that we can include in the insurance policies we offer; • mandates that may affect wage replacement and medical care benefits paid under the workers' compensation system; • requirements for the handling and reporting of claims; • procedures for adjusting claims, which can affect the cost of a claim; • restrictions on the way rates are developed and premiums are determined; • the manner in which agents may be appointed; • establishment of liabilities for unearned premiums, unpaid losses and LAE, and other purposes; • limitations on our ability to transact business with affiliates; • mergers, acquisitions, and divestitures involving our insurance subsidiaries; • licensing requirements and approvals that affect our ability to do business; • compliance with all applicable privacy laws; • potential assessments for the settlement of covered claims under insurance policies issued by impaired, insolvent, or failed insurance companies or other assessments imposed by regulatory agencies; and • the amount of dividends that our insurance subsidiaries may pay to EGI and, in turn, the ability of EGI to pay dividends to EHI. In addition, workers' compensation insurance is statutorily provided for in all of the states in which we do business. State laws and regulations specify the form and content of policy coverage and the rights and benefits that are available to injured workers, their representatives, and medical providers. In “administered pricing” states, insurance rates are set by the state insurance regulators and are adjusted periodically. Rate competition is generally not permitted in these states. Of the states in which we currently operate, Florida, Wisconsin, and Idaho are administered pricing states. Additionally, we are exposed to the risk that other states in which we operate will adopt administered pricing laws. Legislation and regulation also impact our ability to investigate fraud and other abuses of the workers' compensation system in the states in which we do business. Our relationships with medical providers are also impacted by legislation and regulation, including penalties for failure to make timely payments. Federal legislation typically does not directly impact our workers' compensation business, but our business can be indirectly affected by changes in healthcare, occupational safety and health, and tax regulations. Since healthcare costs are the largest component of our loss costs, we may be impacted by changes in healthcare legislation, such as the Affordable Care Act. Also, the unprecedented events in the financial markets have re-opened discussions regarding the possibility of federal regulation of insurance. This extensive regulation of our business may affect the cost or demand for our products and may limit our ability to obtain rate increases or to take other actions that we might desire to maintain our profitability. In addition, we may be unable to maintain all required approvals or comply fully with applicable laws and regulations, or the relevant governmental authority's interpretation of such laws and regulations. Further, changes in the level of regulation of the insurance industry or changes in laws or regulations or interpretations by regulatory authorities could impact our operations, require us to bear additional costs of compliance, and impact our profitability. 22 If we fail to price our insurance policies appropriately, our business competitiveness, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Premiums are based on the particular class of business and our estimates of expected losses and LAE and other expenses related to the policies we underwrite. We analyze many factors when pricing a policy, including the policyholder's prior loss history and industry classification. Inaccurate information regarding a policyholder's past claims experience could put us at risk for mispricing our policies. For example, when initiating coverage on a policyholder, we must rely on the information provided by the policyholder or the policyholder's previous insurer(s) to properly estimate future claims expense. If the claims information is not accurately stated, we may under price our policies by using claims estimates that are too low. In order to set premium rates accurately, we must utilize an appropriate pricing model which correctly as sesses risks based on their individual characteristics and takes into account actual and projected industry characteristics. As a result, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our concentration in California ties our performance to the business, economic, demographic, natural perils, and regulatory conditions in that state. Our business is concentrated in California, where we generated 53.8% of our in-force premiums as of December 31, 2010. Accordingly, unfavorable business, economic, demographic, competitive, or regulatory conditions in California could negatively impact our business. California has been greatly affected by the overall economic downturn, tightening of the credit markets, and the resulting impacts on the residential real estate markets. California is also experiencing budget deficits. The economic condition of the state has resulted in high unemployment and decreased payrolls. In addition, many California businesses are dependent on tourism revenues, which are, in turn, dependent on a robust economy. The downturn in the national economy and the economy of California, or any other event that causes deterioration in tourism, could adversely impact small businesses, such as restaurants, that we have targeted as customers. The departure or insolvency of a significant number of small businesses could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, Cali fornia is exposed to climate and environmental changes, natural perils such as earthquakes, along with the possibility of pandemics or terrorist acts. Accordingly, we could suffer losses as a result of catastrophic events in this state. Because our business is concentrated in this manner, we may be exposed to economic and regulatory risks or risk from natural perils that are greater than the risks associated with greater geographic diversification. We rely on independent insurance agents and brokers. We market and sell our insurance products primarily through independent, non-exclusive insurance agents and brokers. These agents and brokers are not obligated to promote our products and can and do sell our competitors' products. The loss of a number of our independent agents and brokers or the failure or inability of these agents to successfully market our insurance programs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, these agents and brokers may find it easier to promote the broader range of programs of some of our competitors than to promote our single-line workers' compensation insurance products. We rely on our principal strategic partners. We have agreements with two principal strategic partners, ADP and Anthem, to market and service our insurance products through their sales forces and insurance agencies. The in-force premiums for ADP and Anthem were 9.5% and 11.6%, respectively, of total in-force premiums as of December 31, 2010. Our agreement with ADP is not exclusive, and ADP may terminate the agreement without cause upon 120 days notice. Although our distribution agreements with Anthem are exclusive, Anthem may terminate its agreements with us if the A.M. Best financial strength rating of ECIC is downgraded and we are not able to provide coverage through a carrier with an A.M. Best financial strength rating of “B++” or better. Anthem may also terminate its agreements with us without cause upon 60 days notice. The termination of any of our principal strat egic partnership agreements, our failure to maintain good relationships with our principal strategic partners, or their failure to successfully market our products may materially reduce our revenues and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, we are subject to the risk that our principal strategic partners may face financial difficulties, reputational issues, or problems with respect to their own products and services, which may lead to decreased sales of our products and services. Moreover, if either of our principal strategic partners consolidates or aligns itself with another company or changes its products that are currently offered with our workers' compensation insurance product, we may lose business or suffer decreased revenues. 23 We are also subject to credit risk with respect to ADP and Anthem, as they collect premiums on our behalf for the workers' compensation products that are marketed together with their own products. Any failure to remit such premiums to us or to remit such amounts on a timely basis could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. A downgrade in our financial strength rating could reduce the amount of business that we are able to write or result in the termination of certain of our agreements with our strategic partners. Rating agencies rate insurance companies based on financial strength as an indication of an ability to pay claims. Our insurance subsidiaries are currently assigned a group letter rating of “A−” (Excellent) by A.M. Best, which is the rating agency that we believe has the most influence on our business. This rating is assigned to companies that, in the opinion of A.M. Best, have demonstrated an excellent overall performance when compared to industry standards. A.M. Best considers “A−” rated companies to have an excellent ability to meet their ongoing obligations to policyholders. This rating does not refer to our ability to meet non-insurance obligations. The financial strength ratings of A.M. Best and other rating agencies are subject to periodic review using, among other things, proprietary capital adequacy models, and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time. Insurance financial strength ratings are directed toward the concerns of policyholders and insurance agents and are not intended for the protection of investors or as a recommendation to buy, hold, or sell securities. Our competitive position relative to other companies is determined in part by our financial strength rating. A reduction in our A.M. Best rating could adversely affect the amount of business we could write, as well as our relationships with independent agents and brokers and strategic partners. In view of the difficulties experienced recently by many financial institutions, including our competitors in the insurance industry, we believe that it is possible that external rating agencies, such as A.M. Best, may increase their scrutiny of financial institutions, increase the frequency and scope of their reviews, request additional information from the companies that they rate, including additional information regarding the valuation of investment securities held, and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in their models for maintenance of certain rating levels. We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating agencies. One of our strategic partners, Anthem, requires that we offer workers’ compensation coverage through a carrier with a financial strength rating of “B++” or better by A.M. Best. We currently offer this coverage through our subsidiary, ECIC. Our inability to offer such coverage could cause a reduction in the number of policies we write. If ECIC's financial strength rating were downgraded, and we were not able to enter into an agreement to provide coverage through a carrier rated “B++” or better by A.M. Best, Anthem could terminate its distribution agreements with us. We cannot assure you that we would be able to enter such an agreement if our rating was downgraded. If we are unable to obtain reinsurance or collect on ceded reinsurance, our ability to write new policies and to renew existing policies could be adversely affected and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. At December 31, 2010, we had $970.5 million of reinsurance recoverables for paid and unpaid losses and LAE of which $14.4 million was due to us on paid claims. We purchase reinsurance to protect us against the costs of severe claims and catastrophic events, including natural perils and acts of terrorism, excluding nuclear, biological, chemical, and radiological events. On July 1, 2010, we entered into a new reinsurance program that is effective through June 30, 2011. The reinsurance program consists of one treaty covering excess of loss and catastrophic loss events in five layers of coverage. Our reinsurance coverage is $195.0 million in excess of our $5.0 million retention on a per occurrence basis, subject to a $2.0 million annual aggregate deductible and certain exclusions. The availability, amount, and cost of reinsurance depend on market conditions and our loss experience and may vary significantly. We cannot be certain that our reinsurance agreements will be renewed or replaced prior to their expiration upon terms satisfactory to us. If we are unable to renew or replace our reinsurance agreements upon terms satisfactory to us, our net liability on individual risks would increase and we would have greater exposure to catastrophic losses, which could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. 24 In addition, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our reinsurers, and they may also refuse to pay or may delay payment of losses we cede to them. We remain liable to our policyholders even if we are unable to make recoveries to which we believe we are entitled under our reinsurance contracts. Losses may not be recovered from our reinsurers until claims are paid and, in the case of long-term workers' compensation cases, the creditworthiness of our reinsurers may change before we can recover amounts to which we are entitled, see “Item 1—Business —Reinsurance.” The inability of any of our reinsurers to meet its financial obligations could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. We obtained reinsurance covering the losses incurred prior to July 1, 1995, and we could be liable for all of those losses if the coverage provided by the LPT Agreement proves inadequate or we fail to collect from the reinsurers party to such transaction. On January 1, 2000, our Nevada insurance subsidiary assumed all of the assets, liabilities and operations of the Fund, including losses incurred by the Fund prior to such date. Our Nevada insurance subsidiary also assumed the Fund's rights and obligations associated with the LPT Agreement that the Fund entered into with third party reinsurers with respect to its losses incurred prior to July 1, 1995, see “Item 1—Business —Reinsurance —LPT Agreement.” We could be liable for all of those losses if the coverage provided by the LPT Agreement proves inadequate or we fail to collect from the reinsurers party to such transaction. With the exception of certain losses assumed from the Fund, these recoverables are unsecured. If we are unable to collect on these reinsurance recoverables, our financial condition and r esults of operations could be materially adversely affected. As of December 31, 2010, the estimated remaining liabilities subject to the LPT Agreement were approximately $846.7 million. The reinsurers under the LPT Agreement agreed to assume responsibilities for the claims at the benefit levels which existed in June 1999. Accordingly, if the Nevada legislature were to increase the benefits payable for the pre-July 1, 1995 claims, we would be responsible for the increased benefit costs to the extent of the legislative increase. Similarly, if the credit rating of any of the third party reinsurers that are party to the LPT Agreement were to fall below ‘‘A−’’ as determined by A.M. Best or one of the reinsurers becomes insolvent, we would be responsible for replacing any such reinsurer or would be liable for the claims that otherwise would have been transferred to such reinsurer. For example, in 2002, the rating of one of the original reinsurers under the LPT Agreement, Gerling Global Internat ional Reinsurance Company Ltd. (Gerling), dropped below the mandatory ‘‘A−’’ A.M. Best rating to ‘‘B+.’’ Accordingly, we entered into an agreement to replace Gerling with National Indemnity Company (NICO) at a cost to us of $32.8 million. We can give no assurance that circumstances requiring us to replace one or more of the current reinsurers under the LPT Agreement will not occur in the future, that we will be successful in replacing such reinsurer or reinsurers in such circumstances, or that the cost of such replacement or replacements will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. The LPT Agreement also required the reinsurers to each place assets supporting the payment of claims by them in individual trusts that require that collateral be held at a specified level. The collateralization level must not be less than the outstanding reserve for losses and a loss expense allowance equal to 7% of estimated paid losses discounted at a rate of 6%. If the assets held in trust fall below this threshold, we can require the reinsurers to contribute additional assets to maintain the required minimum level. The value of these assets at December 31, 2010 was approximately $962.1 million. If the value of the collateral in the trusts drops below the required minimum level and the reinsurers are unable to contribute additional assets, we could be responsible for substituting a new reinsurer or paying those claims without the be nefit of reinsurance. One of the reinsurers has collateralized its obligations under the LPT Agreement by placing shares of stock of a publicly held corporation, with a value of $729.3 million at December 31, 2010, in a trust to secure the reinsurer's obligation of $472.6 million. The value of this collateral is subject to fluctuations in the market price of such stock. The other reinsurers have placed treasury and fixed maturity securities in trusts to collateralize their obligations. Intense competition and the fact that we write only a single line of insurance could adversely affect our ability to sell policies at rates we deem adequate. The market for workers' compensation insurance products is highly competitive. Competition in our business is based on many factors, including premiums charged, services provided, financial ratings assigned by independent rating agencies, speed of claims payments, reputation, policyholder dividends, perceived financial strength, and general experience. In some cases, our competitors offer lower priced products than we do. If our competitors offer more competitive premiums, dividends or payment plans, services or commissions to independent agents, brokers and other distributors, 25 we could lose market share or have to reduce our premium rates, which could adversely affect our profitability. We compete with regional and national insurance companies, professional employer organizations, third-party administrators, self-insured employers, and state insurance funds. Our main competitors in each of the states in which we currently operate vary from state to state, but are usually those companies that offer a full range of services in underwriting, loss control, and claims. We compete on the basis of the services that we offer to our policyholders and on ease of doing business rather than solely on price. Many of our competitors are significantly larger and possess greater financial, marketing, and management resources than we do. Some of our competitors benefit financially by not being subject to federal income tax. Intense competitive pressure on prices can result from the actions of even a single large competitor. Competitors with more surplus than us have the potential to expand in our markets more quickly than we can. Greater financial resources also permit an insurer to gain market share through more competitive pricing, even if that pricing results in reduced underwriting margins or an underwriting loss. Many of our competitors are multi-line carriers that can price the workers' compensation insurance they offer at a loss in order to obtain other lines of business at a profit. This creates a competitive disadvantage for us, as we only offer a single line of insurance. For example, a business may find it more efficient or less expensive to purchase multiple lines of commercial insurance coverage from a single carrier. The property and casualty insurance industry is cyclical in nature and is characterized by periods of so-called “soft” market conditions in which premium rates are stable or falling, insurance is readily available, and insurers' profits decline, and by periods of so-called “hard” market conditions, in which rates rise, insurance may be more difficult to find, and insurers' profits increase. According to the Insurance Information Institute, since 1970, the property and casualty insurance industry experienced hard market conditions from 1975 to 1978, 1984 to 1987, and 2001 to 2004. Although the financial performance of an individual insurance company is dependent on its own specific business characteristics, the profitability of most workers' compensation insurance companies generally tends to follow this cyclical market pattern. We believe the workers’ compensation industry is currently experiencing increased price competition and excess underwriting capacity. This results in lower rate levels and smaller profit margins. Because of cyclicality in the workers’ compensation market, due in large part to competition, capacity, and general economic factors, we cannot predict the timing or duration of changes in the market cycle. We have experienced significant increased price competition in our target markets since 2003. This cyclical pattern has in the past and could in the future adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We may be unable to realize our investment objectives and economic conditions in the financial markets could lead to investment losses. Investment income is an important component of our revenue and net income. Our investment portfolio is managed by an independent asset manager that operates under investment guidelines approved by our Board of Directors. Although these guidelines stress diversification and capital preservation, our investments are subject to a variety of risks that are beyond our control, including risks related to general economic conditions, interest rate fluctuations, and market volatility. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. These and other factors affect the capital markets and, consequently, the value of our investment portfolio. We are exposed to significant financial risks related to the capital markets, including the risk of potential economic loss principally arising from adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments. The major components of market risk affecting us are interest rate risk, credit spread risk, credit risk, and equity price risk. For more information regarding market, interest rate, credit risk, or equity price risk, see Item 7A—"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk." The outlook for our investment income is dependent on the future direction of interest rates, maturity schedules, and cash flow from operations that is available for investment. The fair values of fixed maturity securities that are “available-for-sale” fluctuate with changes in interest rates and cause fluctuations in our stockholders’ equity. Any significant decline in our investment income or the value of our investments as a result of falling interest rates, deterioration in the credit of companies in which we have invested, decreased dividend payments, general market conditions, or events that have an adverse impact on any particular industry or geographic region in which we hold significant investments could have an adverse effect on our net income and, as a result, on our stockholders’ equity and policyhol ders’ surplus. 26 The valuation of our investments, including the determination of the amount of impairments, include estimates and assumptions and could result in changes to investment valuations that may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our estimates of fair value for our investments are based upon the inputs used in the valuation and give the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets and require that observable inputs be used in the valuations when available. In determining the level of the hierarchy in which the valuation is disclosed, the highest priority is given to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs that reflect the Company’s significant market assumptions. The use of internally developed valuation techniques may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts of our investments and our financial condition. Additionally, we regularly review our entire investment portfolio, including the identification of other-than-temporary declines in fair value. The determination of the amount of impairments taken on our investments is based on our periodic evaluation and assessment of our investments and known and inherent risks associated with the various asset classes. There can be no assurance that our management has accurately assessed the level of impairments in determining the other-than-temporary impairments reflected in our financial statements and additional impairments may need to be taken in the future. Historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments. Additional information regarding the determination impairments on our investments is set forth under “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial C ondition and Results of Operations —Investments.” We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us or may be available only on unfavorable terms. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including state regulatory requirements and our ability to write new business successfully and to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses. If we have to raise additional capital, equity or debt financing may not be available on terms that are favorable to us. In the case of equity financings, dilution to our stockholders could result and the securities may have rights, preferences, and privileges senior to the common stock. In the case of debt financings, we may be subject to covenants that restrict our ability to freely operate our business. If we cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, we may be unable to implement our future growth or operating plans and our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The capital and credit markets continue to experience volatility and disruption that have negatively affected market liquidity conditions. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and limited the availability of credit for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. As a result, we may be forced to delay raising capital or be unable to raise capital on favorable terms, or at all, which could decrease our profitability, significantly reduce our financial flexibility and cause rating agencies to reevaluate our financial strength ratings. We have outstanding indebtedness, which could impair our financial strength ratings and adversely affect our ability to react to changes in our business and fulfill our debt obligations. Our indebtedness could have significant consequences, including: · making it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations; · limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts to fund working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, the execution of our business strategy, acquisitions, and other purposes; · affecting the way we manage our business due to restrictive covenants; · requiring us to provide collateral which restricts our use of funds; · requiring us to use a portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our debt; and · making us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions, and limiting our flexibility to plan for, and react quickly to, changing conditions. 27 We rely on our information technology and telecommunication systems, and the failure of these systems could materially and adversely affect our business. Our business is highly dependent upon the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunications systems. We rely on these systems to process new and renewal business, provide customer service, administer and make payments on claims, facilitate collections, and to automatically underwrite and administer the policies we write. The failure of any of our systems could interrupt our operations or materially impact our ability to evaluate and write new business. Our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems; and we could experience service denials if demand for such services exceeds capacity or such third-party systems fail or experience interruptions. Certain events outside of our control could render our systems inoperable such that we would be unable to service our agents, insureds, and injured workers, or meet certain regulatory requirements. If such an event were to occur and our systems were unable to be restored or secured within a reasonable timeframe, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Additionally, a breach of security could jeopardize the privacy, confidentiality, and integrity of our data or our customers' data, which could harm our reputation and expose us to possible liability. Acts of terrorism and catastrophes could materially adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Under our workers' compensation policies and applicable laws in the states in which we operate, we are required to provide workers' compensation benefits for losses arising from acts of terrorism. The impact of any terrorist act is unpredictable, and the ultimate impact on us would depend upon the nature, extent, location, and timing of such an act. We would be particularly adversely affected by a terrorist act affecting any metropolitan area where our policyholders have a large concentration of workers. Notwithstanding the protection provided by the reinsurance we have purchased and any protection provided by the 2002 Act, or its extension, the TRIPRA, the risk of severe losses to us from acts of terrorism has not been eliminated because our excess of loss reinsurance treaty program contains various sub-limits and exclusions limiting our reinsurers' obligation to cover losses caused by acts of terrorism. Our excess of loss reinsurance treaties do not protect against nuclear, biological, chemical, or radiological events. If such an event were to impact one or more of the businesses we insure, we would be entirely responsible for any workers' compensation claims arising out of such event, subject to the terms of the 2002 Act, and the TRIPRA (see “Item 1—Business—Regulation—Federal Legislative Changes”) and could suffer substantial losses as a result. Our operations also expose us to claims arising out of catastrophes because we may be required to pay benefits to workers who are injured in the workplace as a result of a catastrophe. Catastrophes can be caused by various unpredictable events, either natural or man-made. Any catastrophe occurring in the states in which we operate could expose us to potentially substantial losses and, accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are a holding company with no direct operations. We depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to transfer funds to us to meet our obligations, and our insurance subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends to us is restricted by law. EHI is a holding company that transacts substantially all of its business through operating subsidiaries. Its primary assets are the shares of stock of our insurance subsidiaries. The ability of EHI to meet obligations on outstanding debt, to pay stockholder dividends and to make other payments, depends on the surplus and earnings of our subsidiaries and their ability to pay dividends or to advance or repay funds, and upon the ability of our insurance subsidiaries, to pay dividends to EGI and, in turn, the ability of EGI to pay dividends to EHI. Payments of dividends by our insurance subsidiaries are restricted by state insurance laws, including laws establishing minimum solvency and liquidity thresholds, and could be subject to contractual restrictions in the future, including those imposed by indebtedness we may incur in the future, see “Item 1—Business—Regulation—Financial, Dividend and Investment Restrictions” and Note 16 in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements. As a result, we may not be able to receive dividends from these subsidiaries and we may not receive dividends in the amounts necessary to meet our obligations or to pay dividends on our common stock. 28 Administrative proceedings or legal actions involving our insurance subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our insurance subsidiaries are involved in various administrative proceedings and legal actions in the normal course of their insurance operations. Our subsidiaries have responded to the actions and intend to defend against these claims. These claims concern issues including eligibility for workers' compensation insurance coverage or benefits, the extent of injuries, wage determinations, and disability ratings. Adverse decisions in multiple administrative proceedings or legal actions could require us to pay significant amounts in the aggregate or to change the manner in which we administer claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business is largely dependent on the efforts of our management because of its industry expertise, knowledge of our markets, and relationships with the independent agents and brokers that sell our products. Our success depends in substantial part upon our ability to attract and retain qualified executive officers, experienced underwriting personnel, and other skilled employees who are knowledgeable about our business. The current success of our business is dependent in significant part on the efforts of Douglas D. Dirks, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and William E. Yocke, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Many of our regional and local officers are also critical to our operations because of their industry expertise, knowledge of our markets, and relationships with the independent agents and brokers who sell our products. We have entered into employment agreements with certain of our key executives. Currently, we do not maintain key man life insurance for our executives or senior management team. If we were to lose the services of members of our management team or key regional or local officers, we may be unable to find replacements satisfactory to us and our business. As a result, our operations may be disrupted and our financial performance may be adversely affected. Assessments and other surcharges for guaranty funds, second injury funds, and other mandatory pooling arrangements may reduce our profitability. All states require insurance companies licensed to do business in their state to bear a portion of the unfunded obligations of insolvent insurance companies. These obligations are funded by assessments that can be expected to continue in the future in the states in which we operate. Many states also have laws that established second injury funds to provide compensation to injured employees for aggravation of a prior condition or injury, which are funded by either assessments based on paid losses or premium surcharge mechanisms. In addition, as a condition to the ability to conduct business in some states, insurance companies are required to participate in mandatory workers' compensation shared market mechanisms or pooling arrangements, which provide workers' compensation insurance cov erage from private insurers. The effect of these assessments and mandatory shared market mechanisms or changes in them could reduce our profitability in any given period or limit our ability to grow our business. Insurance laws of Nevada, California, Florida, and other applicable states, certain provisions of our charter documents, and Nevada corporation law could prevent or delay a change of control that could be beneficial to us and our stockholders. Under Nevada insurance law and our amended and restated articles of incorporation that became effective upon completion of the conversion, for a period of five years following February 5, 2007 or, if earlier, until such date as we no longer directly or indirectly own a majority of the outstanding voting stock of EICN, no person may directly or indirectly acquire or offer to acquire in any manner beneficial ownership of 5% or more of any class of our voting securities without the prior approval of the Nevada Commissioner, see “Item 1—Business—Regulation—Change of Control.” Additionally, we have insurance subsidiaries domiciled in California and Florida. The insurance laws of California and Florida require prior approval from the California DOI and the Florida OIR for any change of control of the subsidiary domiciled in their respective states. Insurance laws in many other states also contain provisions that require pre-notification to the insurance commissioners of a change in control of a non-domestic insurance company licensed in those states. In Florida, "control" is generally presumed to exist through the direct or indirect ownership of 5% or more of the voting securities of a domestic insurance company or of any entity that controls a domestic insurance company, while in California and Nevada, "control" is presumed to exist through the direct or indirect ownership of 10% or more of the voting securi ties of a domestic insurance company or of any entity that controls a domestic insurance company. Because we have insurance subsidiaries domiciled in California, Florida, and Nevada, any future transaction that would constitute a change in control of us would generally require the party acquiring control to obtain the prior approval of the 29 California Commissioner, Florida Commissioner and the Nevada Commissioner and may require pre-notification in those states that have adopted pre-notification provisions upon a change of control. Obtaining these approvals may result in a material delay of, or deter, any such transaction. These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals or tender offers, and may delay, deter, or prevent a change of control, even if the acquisition proposal or tender offer is beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws could discourage, delay, or prevent a merger, acquisition, or other change in control of us, even if our stockholders might consider such a change in control to be in their best interests. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect Directors and take other corporate actions. In particular, our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws include provisions: • dividing our Board of Directors into three classes; • eliminating the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; • permitting our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock in one or more series; • imposing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at the stockholder meetings; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby limiting stockholder action to that taken at a meeting of our stockholders; and • providing our Board of Directors with exclusive authority to adopt or amend our by-laws. These provisions may make it difficult for stockholders to replace Directors and could have the effect of discouraging a future takeover attempt that is not approved by our Board of Directors, but which stockholders might consider favorable. Additionally, these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 