Item 1A. Risk Factors FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Form 10-K includes statements reflecting assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions or beliefs about future events that are intended as “forward-looking statements.” All statements included or incorporated by reference in this annual report, other than statements of historical fact, that address activities, events or developments that we or our management expect, believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. These statements represent our reasonable judgment on the future based on various factors and using numerous assumptions and are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results and financial position to differ materially from those contemplated by the statements. You can identify th ese statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They use words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “project,” “forecast,” “plan,” “may,” “will”, “should”, “expect” and other words of similar meaning. In particular, these include, but are not limited to, statements relating to the following: ● beliefs and assumptions regarding our ability to continue as a going concern; ● the impact of the turnover in our executive team and Dynegy’s Board of Directors on our ability to execute our business plan; ● beliefs and assumptions relating to our liquidity, available borrowing capacity and capital resources generally, including the extent to which such liquidity could be affected by poor economic and financial market conditions or new regulations and any resulting impacts on financial institutions and other current and potential counterparties; ● the outcome of any legal proceedings that may be instituted against Dynegy and/or others relating to the Blackstone Merger Agreement and Icahn Merger Agreement; ● diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns; ● limitations on our ability to utilize Dynegy’s previously incurred federal net operating losses or alternative minimum tax credits; ● the amount of the costs, fees, expenses, and other charges related to the Blackstone Merger Agreement and the Icahn Merger Agreement; ● the timing and anticipated benefits to be achieved through our company-wide cost savings programs; 25 TABLE OF CONTENTS ● expectations regarding environmental matters, including costs of compliance, availability and adequacy of emission credits, and the impact of ongoing proceedings and potential regulations or changes to current regulations, including those relating to climate change, air emissions, cooling water intake structures, coal combustion byproducts, and other laws and regulations to which we are, or could become, subject; ● beliefs, assumptions and projections regarding the overall economy, demand for power, generation volumes and commodity pricing , including natural gas prices and the impact on such prices from shale gas proliferation and the timing of a recovery in natural gas prices, if any; ● sufficiency of, access to and costs associated with coal, fuel oil and natural gas inventories and transportation thereof; ● beliefs and assumptions about market competition, generation capacity and regional supply and demand characteristics of the wholesale power generation market, including the anticipation of higher market pricing over the longer term; ● the possibility of further consolidation in the power generation industry and the impact of any such activity on Dynegy; ● beliefs and assumptions regarding our ability to enhance or protect long-term value for stockholders; ● the effectiveness of our strategies to capture opportunities presented by changes in commodity prices and to manage our exposure to energy price volatility; ● beliefs and assumptions about weather and general economic conditions; ● projected operating or financial results, including anticipated cash flows from operations, revenues and profitability; ● expectations regarding our revolver capacity, credit facility compliance, financial covenants, collateral demands, capital expenditures, interest expense and other payments; ● beliefs or expectations regarding the potential amendment or refinancing of our Credit Facility, or the timing thereof; ● our focus on safety and our ability to efficiently operate our assets so as to capture revenue generating opportunities and operating margins; ● beliefs about the outcome of legal, regulatory, administrative and legislative matters; and ● expectations regarding performance standards and estimates regarding capital and maintenance expenditures, including the Midwest Consent Decree and its associated costs and performance standards. Any or all of our forward-looking statements may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, including those set forth below. FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS Risks Related to Our Financial Structure, Level of Indebtedness and Access to Capital Markets We have received audit reports on our consolidated financial statements that express uncertainty about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm has included an explanatory paragraph in their reports on our December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 consolidated financial statements regarding doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. This may have a negative impact on the trading price of Dynegy's common stock and may make it more difficult to amend or replace our current Credit Facility, or to seek additional sources of liquidity. 26 TABLE OF CONTENTS We have significant debt that could negatively impact our business. We have and will continue to have a significant amount of debt outstanding. As of December 31, 2010, we had total consolidated debt of approximately $4.8 billion (including debt outstanding under our Credit Facility). Our significant level of debt could: ● make it difficult to satisfy our financial obligations, including debt service requirements; ● limit our ability to obtain additional financing to operate our business; ● limit our financial flexibility in planning for and reacting to business and industry changes; ● impact the evaluation of our creditworthiness by counterparties to commercial agreements and affect their willingness to transact with us and/or the level of collateral we are required to post under such agreements; ● place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged companies; ● increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including changes in interest rates and volatility in commodity prices; and ● require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows to principal and interest payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes including our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities. Furthermore, we may incur or assume additional debt in the future. If new debt is added to our current debt levels and those of our subsidiaries, the related risks that we and they face could increase significantly. Our financing agreements governing our debt obligations require us to satisfy specific financial covenants. Using the latest available forward commodity price curves and considering our current derivative contracts, we project that it is likely that we will not be able to comply with our EBITDA to Consolidated Interest Expense covenant, particularly in the third and fourth quarters of 2011. Our failure to comply with the financial covenants would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we are unable to successfully execute our plan to amend or replace our Credit Facility or otherwise obtain additional sources of liquidity, it may be necessary for us to seek protection from creditors under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, or an involuntary petition for bankruptcy may be filed against us. Our financing agreements, including the Credit Facility, require us to meet specific financial covenants both as a matter of course and as a precondition to the incurrence of additional debt and to the making of restricted payments or asset sales, among other things. Our obligations relating to ongoing financial covenants include the maintenance of specified financial ratios regarding Secured Debt to EBITDA and EBITDA to Consolidated Interest Expense (as each such term is defined in the Credit Facility) (together, the “Maintenance Covenants”). The financial covenants set forth as a condition to the events described above include the demonstration, on a pro forma basis, of a specified ratio of Total Indebtedness to EBITDA (as each such term is defined in the Credit Facility). Each of these thre e ratios becomes more restrictive over the course of 2011 and into 2012. As of December 31, 2010, we were in compliance with the Maintenance Covenants. Using the latest available forward commodity price curves and considering our current derivative contracts, we project that it is likely that we will not be able to comply with our EBITDA to Consolidated Interest Expense covenant, as currently set forth in our Credit Facility, particularly in the third and fourth quarters of 2011, which could result in an event of default causing our indebtedness thereunder (and any other indebtedness to the extent linked to it by reason of cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions) to potentially become immediately due and payable. If we are unable to cure or obtain a waiver for any such default, or are unable to obtain replacement financing or otherwise pay off such amounts, and our lenders acceler ate the payment of such indebtedness, our lenders would be entitled to foreclose on, and acquire control of substantially all of our assets, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 27 TABLE OF CONTENTS In light of our likely non-compliance, we are attempting to amend or replace our existing Credit Facility. If we are able to amend our Credit Facility or enter into a new facility, we expect that capacity of any such facility to be less than the current capacity of $1.8 billion and to be at a higher cost, which reduced capacity and increased costs could have a material adverse effect on our ability to successfully run our business. We may also seek additional sources of liquidity in an effort to secure sufficient cash to meet our operating needs. These additional sources of liquidity could include asset sales, public or private issuances of debt, equity or equity-linked securities, debt for equity swaps, or any combination of these. However, we cannot provide any assurances that we wi ll be successful in accomplishing any of these plans. If we are unable to successfully execute our plan to amend or replace our Credit Facility or otherwise obtain additional sources of liquidity, it may be necessary for us to seek protection from creditors under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, or an involuntary petition for bankruptcy may be filed against us. An event of loss and certain other events relating to our Dynegy Northeast Generation facilities could trigger a substantial obligation that would be difficult for us to satisfy. We acquired the DNE power generating facilities in January 2001 for $950 million. In May 2001, we entered into an asset-backed sale-leaseback transaction relating to these facilities to provide us with long-term acquisition financing. In this transaction, we sold four of the six generating units comprising these facilities for approximately $920 million to Danskammer OL LLC and Roseton OL LLC, and we concurrently agreed to lease them back from these entities. Obligations under these leases are guaranteed by DHI. We have no option to purchase the leased facilities at Roseton or Danskammer at the end of their respective lease terms, which end in 2035 and 2031, respectively. If one or more of the leases were to be terminated prior to the end of its term because of an event of loss (suc h as substantial damage to a facility or a condemnation or similar governmental taking or action), because it becomes illegal for us to comply with the lease, or because the facility becomes economically or technologically obsolete, we would be required to make a termination payment in an amount sufficient to compensate the lessor for termination of the lease, including redeeming the pass-through trust certificates related to the unit or facility for which the lease is terminated plus, in the case of an obsolescence termination (other than as a result of a change in law or the requirement by a governmental entity of significant capital improvements), a make whole premium for the remaining term of the pass through certificates. As of December 31, 2010, the termination payment would be approximately $816 million and the make whole premium would be approximately $109 million for all of our DNE facilities. It could be difficult for us to raise sufficient funds to make this termination payme nt if a termination of this type were to occur with respect to the DNE facilities, resulting in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our access to the capital markets may be limited. As previously described, we will require additional capital in the near-term. Because of our non-investment grade credit rating, the going concern emphasis paragraph in our most recent audit report, the recent changes in senior management and Dynegy’s Board of Directors, and/or general conditions in the financial and credit markets, our access to the capital markets may be limited. Moreover, the urgency of a capital-raising transaction may require us to pursue additional capital at an inopportune time. Our ability to obtain capital and the costs of such capital are dependent on numerous factors, including: ● covenants in our existing debt and credit agreements; ● investor confidence in us and the regional wholesale power markets; ● our financial performance and the financial performance of our subsidiaries; ● our levels of debt; ● our requirements for posting collateral under various commercial agreements; ● our credit ratings; 28 TABLE OF CONTENTS ● our cash flow; ● our long-term business prospects; and ● general economic and capital market conditions, including the timing and magnitude of any market recovery. We may not be successful in obtaining additional capital for these or other reasons. An inability to access capital may limit our ability to meet our operating needs and, as a result, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our non-investment grade status may adversely impact our operations, increase our liquidity requirements and increase the cost of refinancing opportunities. We may not have adequate liquidity to post required amounts of additional collateral. Our credit ratings are currently below investment grade, and on March 1, 2011, Standard & Poor's downgraded our corporate family ratings to "CCC" from "B-". We cannot assure you that our credit ratings will improve, or that they will not decline, in the future. Our credit ratings may affect the evaluation of our creditworthiness by trading counterparties and lenders, which could put us at a disadvantage to competitors with higher or investment grade ratings. In carrying out our commercial business strategy, our current non-investment grade credit ratings have resulted and will likely continue to result in requirements that we either prepay obligations or post significant amounts of collateral to support our business. Various commodity trading counterparties may be unwilling to transact with us or may make collateral demands that reflect our non-investment grade credit ratings, the counterparties’ views of our creditworthiness, as well as changes in commodity prices. We use a portion of our capital resources, in the form of cash, short-term investments, lien capacity, and letters of credit, to satisfy these counterparty collateral demands. Our commodity agreements are tied to market pricing and may require us to post additional collateral under cert ain circumstances. If market conditions change such that counterparties are entitled to additional collateral, our liquidity could be strained and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Factors that could trigger increased demands for collateral include changes in our credit rating or liquidity and changes in commodity prices for power and fuel, among others. In connection with the most recent downgrade by Standard & Poor's, certain of our counterparties have requested collateral support. Other counterparties may require further collateral support in the future. Additionally, our non-investment grade credit ratings may limit our ability to obtain additional sources of liquidity, refinance our debt obligations or access the capital markets at the lower borrowing costs that would presumably be available to competitors with higher or investment grade ratings. Should our ratings continue at their current levels, or should our ratings be further downgraded, we would expect these negative effects to continue and, in the case of a downgrade, become more pronounced. We conduct virtually all of our operations through our subsidiaries and may be limited in our ability to access funds from these subsidiaries to service our debt. We conduct virtually all of our operations through our subsidiaries and, therefore, depend upon dividends and other intercompany transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to meet our debt service and other obligations. In addition, the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends and make other payments to us may be restricted by, among other things, applicable corporate and other laws, potentially adverse tax consequences and agreements of our subsidiaries. If we are unable to access the cash flow of our subsidiaries, we may have difficulty meeting our debt obligations. If we are unable to successfully execute our plans to amend or replace our Credit Facility or otherwise obtain alternative sources of liquidity, we may seek protection pursuant to a voluntary bankruptcy filing under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, or an involuntary petition for bankruptcy may be filed against us. As described in Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources, using the latest available forward commodity price curves and considering our current derivative contracts, we project that it is likely that we will not be able to comply with the covenant regarding the EBITDA to Consolidated Interest Expense ratio contained in our Credit Facility, particularly in the third and fourth quarters 2011, which could result in an event of default causing our indebtedness thereunder (and any other indebtedness to the extent linked to it by reason of cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions) to potentially become immediately due and payable. In light of our likely non-compliance, we are attempting to amend or replace our existi ng Credit Facility. We may also seek additional sources of liquidity in an effort to secure sufficient cash to meet our operating needs. These additional sources of liquidity could include asset sales, public or private issuances of debt, equity or equity-linked securities, debt for equity swaps, or any combination of these. However, we cannot provide any assurances that we will be successful in accomplishing any of these plans. If we are unsuccessful, we may consider or pursue various forms of negotiated restructurings of our debt obligations and/or asset sales under court supervision pursuant to a voluntary bankruptcy filing under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. In addition, under certain circumstances our creditors may file an involuntary petition for bankruptcy against us. 29 TABLE OF CONTENTS If we file for bankruptcy protection, our business and operations will be subject to certain risks. A bankruptcy filing by or against Dynegy, DHI and/or certain of our subsidiaries (each referred to as a “filer”) would subject our business and operations to various risks, including but not limited to, the following: ● A bankruptcy filing by or against a filer may adversely affect our business prospects, including our ability to continue to obtain and maintain the contracts necessary to operate our business on competitive terms; ● We may be unable to retain and motivate key executives and employees through the process of reorganization, and we may have difficulty attracting new employees; ● There can be no assurance as to our ability to maintain or obtain sufficient financing sources for operations or to fund any reorganization plan and meet future obligations; ● There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop, prosecute, confirm and consummate one or more plans of reorganization that are acceptable to the bankruptcy court and our creditors, equity holders and other parties in interest; ● Our ability to use our federal NOLs and AMT credits, which totaled $222 million and $271 million, respectively, at December 31, 2010 could be limited or modified as a result of bankruptcy proceedings; and ● The value of Dynegy’s common stock could be reduced to zero as result of a bankruptcy filing. Risks Related to the Operation of Our Business The recent resignations of certain members of our executive team and the decision of Dynegy's board of directors to not stand for reelection at Dynegy's upcoming annual meeting could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. On February 21, 2011, we announced that Bruce A. Williamson, the Chairman of Dynegy’s Board of Directors and our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Holli C. Nichols, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, were resigning from their executive positions effective March 11, 2011. Mr. Williamson resigned as a director and Chairman effective February 21, 2011. Also, on February 21, 2011, Dynegy’s then-remaining directors each informed Dynegy that he or she does not currently intend to stand for reelection as a director of Dynegy at Dynegy’s upcoming annual meeting of stockholders. The loss of these executives and directors and their skills, experience and industry knowledge could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of opera tions. Furthermore, our inability to attract, motivate and retain other key employees, including new senior executives, and to replace the directors that will not stand for reelection at the annual meeting with qualified and knowledgeable directors, could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 30 TABLE OF CONTENTS Because wholesale power prices are subject to significant volatility and because many of our power generation facilities operate without long-term power sales agreements, our revenues and profitability are subject to wide fluctuations. Because we largely sell electric energy, capacity and ancillary services into the wholesale energy spot market or into other power markets on a term basis, we are not guaranteed any rate of return on our capital investments. Rather, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will depend, in large part, upon prevailing market prices for power and the fuel to generate such power. Wholesale power markets are subject to significant price fluctuations over relatively short periods of time and can be unpredictable. Such factors that may materially impact the power markets and our financial results include: ● economic conditions, the existence and effectiveness of demand-side management and conservation efforts and the extent to which they impact electricity demand; ● regulatory constraints on pricing (current or future) or the functioning of the energy trading markets and energy trading generally; ● the proliferation of advanced shale gas drilling increasing domestic natural gas supplies; ● fuel price volatility; and ● increased competition or price pressure driven by generation from renewable sources. Many of our facilities operate as “merchant” facilities without long-term power sales agreements. Consequently, we cannot be sure that we will be able to sell any or all of the electric energy, capacity or ancillary services from those facilities at commercially attractive rates or that our facilities will be able to operate profitably. This could lead to decreased financial results as well as future impairments of our property, plant and equipment or to the retirement of certain of our facilities resulting in economic losses and liabilities. Given the volatility of power commodity prices, to the extent we do not secure long-term power sales agreements for the output of our power generation facilities, our revenues and profitability will be subject to increased volatility, and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Further, declines in the market prices of natural gas and wholesale electricity have reduced the outlook for cash flow that can be expected to be generated by us in the next several years. Our commercial strategy may not be executed as planned or may result in lost opportunities. We seek to commercialize our assets through sales arrangements of various tenors. In doing so, we attempt to balance a desire for greater predictability of earnings and cash flows in the short- and medium-term with a belief that commodity prices will rise over the longer term, creating upside opportunities for those with unhedged generation volumes. Our ability to successfully execute this strategy is dependent on a number of factors, many of which are outside our control, including market liquidity, the availability of counterparties willing to transact with us or to transact with us at prices we believe are commercially acceptable, the availability of liquidity to post collateral in support of our derivative instruments, and the reliability of the people and systems comprising our commercial operations function. 160; The availability of market liquidity and willing counterparties could be negatively impacted by poor economic and financial market conditions, including impacts on financial institutions and other current and potential counterparties as well as counterparties' views of our creditworthiness. If we are unable to transact in the short- and medium-term, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be subject to significant uncertainty and volatility. Alternatively, significant contract execution for any such period may precede a run-up in commodity prices, resulting in lost upside opportunities and mark-to-market accounting losses causing significant variability in net income and other GAAP reported measures. 31 TABLE OF CONTENTS We are exposed to the risk of fuel and fuel transportation cost increases and interruptions in fuel supplies because some of our facilities do not have long-term coal, natural gas or fuel oil supply agreements. We purchase the fuel requirements for many of our power generation facilities, primarily those that are natural gas-fired, under short-term contracts or on the spot market. As a result, we face the risks of supply interruptions and fuel price volatility, as fuel deliveries may not exactly match those required for energy sales, due in part to our need to pre-purchase fuel inventories for reliability and dispatch requirements. Moreover, profitable operation of many of our coal-fired generation facilities is highly dependent on our ability to procure coal at prices we consider reasonable. Power generators in the Midwest and the Northeast have experienced significant pressures on available coal supplies that are either transportation or supply related. In the Midwest, our coal requirements are approximately 96 percent contracted in 2011 and 99 percent contracted for 2012. All forecast coal requirements are 96 percent priced through 2011 and 69 percent are priced for 2012. Forecasted coal requirements that are currently unpriced are subject to a price collar structure. Our Midwest coal transportation requirements are 100 percent contracted and priced through 2013. We have entered into term contract s for South American coal, which we use for our GEN-NE coal facility, and for PRB coal, which we use for our GEN-MW coal facilities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew our coal procurement and transportation contracts when they terminate on terms that are favorable to us or at all. Further, our and our suppliers’ ability to procure South American coal is subject to local political and other factors that could have a negative impact on our coal deliveries regardless of our contract situation. Permit limitations that restrict the sulfur content of coal used at our coal facilities limit our options for coal fuel supply, creating risk for us in terms of our ability to procure coal for periods and at prices we believe are firm and favorable. Further, any changes in the costs of coal, fuel oil, natural gas or transportation rates and changes in the relationship between such costs and the market prices of power will affect our financial results. If we are unable to procure fuel for physical delivery at prices we consider favorable, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Our costs of compliance with existing environmental requirements are significant, and costs of compliance with new environmental requirements or factors could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business is subject to extensive and frequently changing environmental regulation by federal, state and local authorities. Such environmental regulation imposes, among other things, restrictions, liabilities and obligations in connection with the generation, handling, use, transportation, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and waste and in connection with spills, releases and emissions of various substances (including GHG) into the environment, and in connection with environmental impacts associated with cooling water intake structures. Existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised or reinterpreted, new laws and regulations may be adopted or may become applicable to us or our facilities, and litigation or enforcement proceedings could be commenced against us. Proposal s being considered by federal and state authorities (including proposals regarding regulation of GHGs) could, if and when adopted or enacted, require us to make substantial capital and operating expenditures or consider retiring certain of our facilities. If any of these events occur, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Many environmental laws require approvals or permits from governmental authorities before construction, modification or operation of a power generation facility may commence. Certain environmental permits must be renewed periodically in order for us to continue operating our facilities. The process of obtaining and renewing necessary permits can be lengthy and complex and can sometimes result in the establishment of permit conditions that make the project or activity for which the permit was sought unprofitable or otherwise unattractive. Even where permits are not required, compliance with environmental laws and regulations can require significant capital and operating expenditures. We are required to comply with numerous environmental laws and regulations, and to obtain numerous governmental p ermits when we construct, modify and operate our facilities. If there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approvals or permits, if we fail to obtain any required approval or permit, or if we are unable to comply with the terms of such approvals or permits, the operation of our facilities may be interrupted or become subject to additional costs. Further, changed interpretations of existing regulations may subject historical maintenance, repair and replacement activities at our facilities to claims of noncompliance. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Certain of our facilities are also required to comply with the terms of consent decrees or other governmental orders. 32 TABLE OF CONTENTS With the continuing trend toward stricter environmental standards and more extensive regulatory and permitting requirements, our capital and operating environmental expenditures are likely to be substantial and may increase in the future. Our business is subject to complex government regulation. Changes in these regulations or in their implementation may affect costs of operating our facilities or our ability to operate our facilities, or increase competition, any of which would negatively impact our results of operations. We are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the generation and sale of energy commodities in each of the jurisdictions in which we have operations. Compliance with these ever-changing laws and regulations requires expenses (including legal representation) and monitoring, capital and operating expenditures. Potential changes in laws and regulations that could have a material impact on our business include: re-regulation of the power industry in markets in which we conduct business; the introduction, or reintroduction, of rate caps or pricing constraints; increased credit standards, collateral costs or margin requirements, as well as reduced market liquidity, as a result of potential OTC market regulation; or a variation of these. Furthermore, these and other market-b ased rules and regulations are subject to change at any time, and we cannot predict what changes may occur in the future or how such changes might affect any facet of our business. The costs and burdens associated with complying with the increased number of regulations may have a material adverse effect on us, if we fail to comply with the laws and regulations governing our business or if we fail to maintain or obtain advantageous regulatory authorizations and exemptions. Moreover, increased competition within the sector resulting from potential legislative changes, regulatory changes or other factors may create greater risks to the stability of our power generation earnings and cash flows generally. Availability and cost of emission allowances could materially impact our costs of operations. We are required to maintain, either through allocation or purchase, sufficient emission allowances to support our operations in the ordinary course of operating our power generation facilities. These allowances are used to meet our obligations imposed by various applicable environmental laws and the trend toward more stringent regulations (including regulations regarding GHG emissions) will likely require us to obtain new or additional emission allowances. If our operational needs require more than our allocated quantity of emission allowances, we may be forced to purchase such allowances on the open market, which could be costly. If we are unable to maintain sufficient emission allowances to match our operational needs, we may have to curtail our operations so as not to exceed our available emission allo wances, or install costly new emissions controls. As we use the emissions allowances that we have purchased on the open market, costs associated with such purchases will be recognized as operating expense. If such allowances are available for purchase, but only at significantly higher prices, their purchase could materially increase our costs of operations in the affected markets and materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 33 TABLE OF CONTENTS Competition in wholesale power markets, together with the age of certain of our generation facilities and an oversupply of power generation capacity in certain regional markets, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have numerous competitors, and additional competitors may enter the industry. Our power generation business competes with other non-utility generators, regulated utilities, unregulated subsidiaries of regulated utilities, other energy service companies and financial institutions in the sale of electric energy, capacity and ancillary services, as well as in the procurement of fuel, transmission and transportation services. Moreover, aggregate demand for power may be met by generation capacity based on several competing technologies, as well as power generating facilities fueled by alternative or renewable energy sources, including hydroelectric power, synthetic fuels, solar, wind, wood, geothermal, waste heat and solid waste sources. Regulatory initiatives designed to enhance renewable generation could increase competition from these types of facilities. In addition, a buildup of new electric generation facilities in recent years has resulted in an oversupply of power generation capacity in certain regional markets we serve. We also compete against other energy merchants on the basis of our relative operating skills, financial position and access to credit sources. Electric energy customers, wholesale energy suppliers and transporters often seek financial guarantees, credit support such as letters of credit, and other assurances that their energy contracts will be satisfied. Companies with which we compete may have greater resources in these areas. In addition, certain of our current facilities are relatively old. Newer plants owned by competitors will often be more efficient than some of our plants, which may put these plants at a competitive disadvantage. Over time, some of our plants may become unable to compete, because of the construction of new plants which could have a number of advantages includi ng; more efficient equipment, newer technology that could result in fewer emissions, or more advantageous locations on the electric transmission system. Additionally, these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new laws and regulations because of the newer technology utilized in their facilities or the additional resources derived from owning more efficient facilities. Taken as a whole, the potential disadvantages of our aging fleet could result in lower run-times or even early asset retirement. Other factors may contribute to increased competition in wholesale power markets. New forms of capital and competitors have entered the industry in the last several years, including financial investors who perceive that asset values are at levels below their true replacement value. As a result, a number of generation facilities in the United States are now owned by lenders and investment companies. Furthermore, mergers and asset reallocations in the industry could create powerful new competitors. Under any scenario, we anticipate that we will face competition from numerous companies in the industry, some of which have superior capital structures. Moreover, many companies in the regulated utility industry, with which the wholesale power industry is closely linked, are also restructuring or reviewing their strategies. Several of those companies have discontinued or are discontinuing their unregulated activities and seeking to divest or spin-off their unregulated subsidiaries. Some of those companies have had, or are attempting to have, their regulated subsidiaries acquire assets out of their or other companies’ unregulated subsidiaries. This may lead to increased competition between the regulated utilities and the unregulated power producers within certain markets. To the extent that competition increases, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. We do not own or control transmission facilities required to sell the wholesale power from our generation facilities. If the transmission service is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver wholesale power may be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, these transmission facilities are operated by RTOs and ISOs, which are subject to changes in structure and operation and impose various pricing limitations. These changes and pricing limitations may affect our ability to deliver power to the market that would, in turn, adversely affect the profitability of our generation facilities. We do not own or control the transmission facilities required to sell the wholesale power from our generation facilities. If the transmission service from these facilities is unavailable or disrupted, or if the transmission capacity infrastructure is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver wholesale power may be materially adversely affected. RTOs and ISOs provide transmission services, administer transparent and competitive power markets and maintain system reliability. Many of these RTOs and ISOs operate in the real-time and day-ahead markets in which we sell energy. The RTOs and ISOs that oversee most of the wholesale power markets impose, and in the future may continue to impose, offer caps and other mechanisms to guard against the potential exercise of market power in these markets as well as price limitations. These types of price limitations and other regulatory mechanisms may adversely affect the profitability of our generation facilities that sell energy and capacity into the wholesale power markets. Problems or delays that may arise in the formation and operation of new or maturing RTOs and similar market structures, or changes in geographic scope, rules or market operations of existing RTOs, may also affect our ability to sell, the prices we receive or the cost to transmit power produced by our generating facilities. Rules governing the various regional power markets may also change from time to time, which could affect our costs or revenues. Additionally, if the transmission service from these facilities is unavailable or disrupted, or if the transmission capacity infrastructure is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver wholesale power may be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, the rates for transmission capacity f rom these facilities are set by others and thus are subject to changes, some of which could be significant. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. 34 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would be adversely impacted by strikes or work stoppages by our unionized employees. A majority of the employees at our facilities are subject to collective bargaining agreements with various unions. Additionally, unionization activities, including votes for union certification, could occur at our non-union generating facilities in our fleet. If union employees strike, participate in a work stoppage or slowdown or engage in other forms of labor strife or disruption, we could experience reduced power generation or outages if replacement labor is not procured. The ability to procure such replacement labor is uncertain. Strikes, work stoppages or an inability to negotiate future collective bargaining agreements on commercially reasonable terms could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our ability to comply with our Midwest Consent Decree may be materially adversely impacted by our future operating cash flows or unforeseen labor, material and equipment costs. As a result of the Midwest Consent Decree, we are required to not operate certain of our most profitable power generating facilities after specified dates unless certain emission control equipment is installed. We have incurred significant costs in complying with the Midwest Consent Decree and anticipate incurring additional significant costs over the course of the next three years. Further, we are exposed to the risk of substantial price increases in the costs of materials, labor and equipment used in the construction of emission control equipment. We are further exposed to risk in that counterparties to the construction contracts may fail to perform, in which case we would be forced to enter into alternative arrangements at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices and possibly c ause delays to the project timelines. If the costs of these capital expenditures become great enough to render the operation of the facility uneconomical, we could, at our option, cease to operate the facility or facilities and forego these capital expenditures without incurring any further obligations under the Midwest Consent Decree. Further, our production may be affected if we fail to meet certain performance standards under the Midwest Consent Decree. 35 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may pursue dispositions or business combinations that could fail or present unanticipated problems for our business in the future, which would adversely affect our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of those transactions. We may seek to enter into transactions that may include disposing of assets or combining with other businesses. We may not be able to identify suitable transaction opportunities or finance and complete any particular transaction successfully. Furthermore, transactions involve a number of risks and challenges, including: ● diversion of our management’s attention; ● the ability to obtain required regulatory and other approvals; ● the need to integrate operations; ● potential loss of key employees; ● difficulty in evaluating the power assets, operating costs, infrastructure requirements, environmental and other liabilities and other factors beyond our control; ● potential lack of operating experience in new geographic/power markets or with different fuel sources; ● an increase in our expenses and working capital requirements; and ● the possibility that we may be required to issue a substantial amount of additional equity or debt securities or assume additional debt in connection with any such transactions. Any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to achieve anticipated levels of cash flows or realize synergies or other anticipated benefits from a strategic transaction. Furthermore, the market for transactions is highly competitive, and our capital resources are such that we may not be well positioned in the market to execute a transaction, which may adversely affect our ability to find transactions that fit our strategic objectives. Consistent with industry practice, we routinely engage in discussions with industry participants regarding potential transactions, large and small. We intend to continue to engage in strategic discussions and will need to respond to potential opportunities quickly and decisively. As a result, strategic transactions may occur at any time and may be signi ficant in size relative to our assets and operations. Issuances or acquisitions of Dynegy's common stock, or sales or dispositions of Dynegy's common stock by stockholders could inhibit Dynegy’s ability to use its federal net operating losses or alternative minimum tax credits to offset its future taxable income may be limited under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code. Dynegy’s ability to utilize previously incurred federal NOLs and AMT credits to offset future taxable income would be limited if it were to undergo an “ownership change” within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”). In general, an ownership change occurs whenever the percentage of the stock of a corporation owned by “5-percent shareholders” (within the meaning of Section 382 of the Code) increases by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of the stock of such corporation owned by such “5-percent shareholders” at any time over the preceding three years. Under certain circumstances, issuances or acquisitions of Dynegy's common stock or sales or dispositions of Dynegy's common stock by stockholders could tr igger an “ownership change,” and apart from the application of the provisions of our current Stockholder Protection Rights Agreement, we will have limited control over the timing of any such sales or dispositions of our common stock. More specifically, depending on prevailing interest rates and our market value at the time of such future ownership change, an ownership change under Section 382 of the Code would establish an annual limitation which might prevent full utilization of the deferred tax assets attributable to our previously incurred federal NOLs and AMT credits against the total future taxable income of a given year. The recent stockholder activity increases the likelihood that previously incurred federal NOLs and AMT credits will become subject to the limitations set forth in Sections 382 and 383 of the Code. The magnitude of such limitations and their effect on us are difficult to assess and depend in part on our value at the time of any such ownership change and prevailing interest rates. For accounting purposes, at December 31, 2010, Dynegy’s net operating loss deferred tax asset attributable to its previously incurred federal NOLs was approximately $222 million and its AMT credits were approximately $271 million. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 