Item 1A. Risk Factors FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Form 10-K includes statements reflecting assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions or beliefs about future events that are intended as “forward-looking statements”. All statements included or incorporated by reference in this annual report, other than statements of historical fact, that address activities, events or developments that we or our management expect, believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. These statements represent our reasonable judgment on the future based on various factors and using numerous assumptions and are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results and financial position to differ materially from those contemplated by the statements. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They use words such as “anticipate”, “estimate”, “project”, “forecast”, “plan”, “may”, “will”, “should”, “expect” and other words of similar meaning. In particular, these include, but are not limited to, statements relating to the following: • beliefs about commodity pricing and generation volumes; • beliefs regarding the current economic downturn, its trajectory and its impacts; • sufficiency of, access to and costs associated with coal, fuel oil and natural gas inventories and transportation; • beliefs and assumptions about market competition, generation capacity and regional supply and demand characteristics of the wholesale power generation market; • beliefs associated with Dynegy’s market capitalization and its impact on goodwill; • strategies to capture opportunities presented by changes in commodity prices and to manage our exposure to energy price volatility; • beliefs and assumptions about weather and general economic conditions; • expectations regarding environmental matters, including costs of compliance, availability and adequacy of emission credits, and the impact of ongoing proceedings and potential regulations, including those relating to climate change; • projected operating or financial results, including anticipated cash flows from operations, revenues and profitability; • beliefs and assumptions regarding the current financial crisis and its impact on our liquidity needs and on the credit markets generally and our access thereto; • beliefs and assumptions relating to liquidity and capital resources generally; • beliefs and expectations regarding financing, development and timing of the Sandy Creek and Plum Point projects; • expectations regarding capital expenditures, interest expense and other payments; • our focus on safety and our ability to efficiently operate our assets so as to maximize our revenue generating opportunities and operating margins; • beliefs about the outcome of legal, regulatory, administrative and legislative matters; • expectations and estimates regarding capital and maintenance expenditures, including the Consent Decree and its associated costs; and • efforts to position our power generation business for future growth and pursuing and executing acquisition, disposition or combination opportunities. Any or all of our forward-looking statements may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, including those set forth below. 19 Table of Contents FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS Risks Related to the Operation of Our Business Because many of our power generation facilities operate without long-term power sales agreements and because wholesale power prices are subject to significant volatility, our revenues and profitability are subject to wide fluctuations. Many of our facilities operate as “merchant” facilities without long-term power sales agreements. Consequently, we cannot be sure that we will be able to sell any or all of the electric energy, capacity or ancillary services from those facilities at commercially attractive rates or that our facilities will be able to operate profitably. This could lead to decreased financial results as well as future impairments of our property, plant and equipment or to the retirement of certain of our facilities resulting in economic losses and liabilities. Because we largely sell electric energy, capacity and ancillary services into the wholesale energy spot market or into other power markets on a term basis, we are not guaranteed any rate of return on our capital investments. Rather, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will depend, in large part, upon prevailing market prices for power and the fuel to generate such power. Wholesale power markets are subject to significant price fluctuations over relatively short periods of time and can be unpredictable. Such factors that may materially impact the power markets and our financial results are: • the current and continuing economic downturn, the existence and effectiveness of demand-side management and conservation efforts and the extent to which they impact electricity demand; • regulatory constraints on pricing (current or future); • fuel price volatility; and • increased competition or price pressure driven by generation from renewable sources. Given the volatility of power commodity prices, to the extent we do not secure long-term power sales agreements for the output of our power generation facilities, our revenues and profitability will be subject to increased volatility, and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Our commercial strategy may result in lost opportunities and, in any case, may not be executed as planned. We seek to commercialize our assets through sales arrangements of various tenors. In doing so, we attempt to balance a desire for greater certainty of earnings and cash flows in the near term with a belief that commodity prices will rise over the longer term, creating upside opportunities for those with open merchant length. Our ability to successfully execute this strategy is dependent on a number of factors, many of which are outside our control, including market liquidity, the availability of counterparties willing to transact at prices we believe are commercially acceptable and the people and systems comprising our commercial operations function. If we are unable to transact in the near term, our near-term financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be subject to significant uncertainty and volatility. Alternatively, significant near-term contract execution may precede a run-up in commodity prices, resulting in lost upside opportunities and mark-to-market accounting losses effecting significant variability in net income and other GAAP reported measures. We are exposed to the risk of fuel and fuel transportation cost increases and interruptions in fuel supplies because some of our facilities do not have long-term coal, natural gas or fuel oil supply agreements. We purchase the fuel requirements for many of our power generation facilities, specifically those that are natural gas-fired, under short-term contracts or on the spot market. As a result, we face the risks of supply interruptions and fuel price volatility, as fuel deliveries may not exactly match those required for energy sales, due in part to our need to pre-purchase fuel inventories for reliability and dispatch requirements. 20 Table of Contents Moreover, operation of many of our coal-fired generation facilities is highly dependent on our ability to procure coal. Power generators in the Midwest and the Northeast have experienced significant pressures on available coal supplies that are either transportation or supply related. In particular, we have entered into term contracts for South American coal, which we use for our GEN-NE coal assets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew these contracts when they terminate on terms that are favorable to us or at all. Further, transportation of South American coal is subject to local political and other factors that could have a negative impact on our coal deliveries regardless of our contract situation. Permit limitations associated with the loading and unloading of coal at our GEN-NE coal facility limit our options for coal fuel supply and, when coupled with continued strong coal prices and uncertainties associated with international contracting, create continuing risk for us in terms of our ability to procure coal for periods and at prices we believe are firm and favorable. Further, any changes in the costs of coal, fuel oil, natural gas or transportation rates of the commodity and changes in the relationship between such costs and the market prices of power will affect our financial results and our ability to recover those costs. If we are unable to procure fuel for physical delivery at prices we consider favorable, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Our costs of compliance with existing environmental requirements are significant, and costs of compliance with new environmental requirements could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business is subject to extensive and frequently changing environmental regulation by federal, state and local authorities. Such environmental regulation imposes, among other things, restrictions, liabilities and obligations in connection with the generation, handling, use, transportation, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and waste and in connection with spills, releases and emissions of various substances (including CO2) into the environment, and in connection with environmental impacts associated with cooling water intake structures. Existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised or reinterpreted, new laws and regulations may be adopted or may become applicable to us or our facilities, and litigation or enforcement proceedings could be commenced against us. Proposals being considered by federal and state authorities (including proposals regarding climate change regulation) could, if and when adopted or enacted, require us to make substantial capital and operating expenditures. If any of these events occur, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Moreover, many environmental laws require approvals or permits from governmental authorities before construction, modification or operation of a power generation facility may commence. Certain environmental permits must be renewed periodically in order to continue operating our facilities. The process for obtaining and renewing necessary permits can be lengthy and complex and can sometimes result in the establishment of permit conditions that make the project or activity for which the permit was sought unprofitable or otherwise unattractive. Even where permits are not required, compliance with environmental laws and regulations can require significant capital and operating expenditures. We are required to comply with numerous environmental laws and regulations, and to obtain numerous governmental permits when we construct, modify and operate our facilities. If there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approvals or permits, if we fail to obtain any required approval or permit, or if we are unable to comply with the terms of such approvals or permits, the operation of our facilities may be interrupted or become subject to additional costs. Further, interpretations of existing regulations may change, subjecting historical maintenance, repair and replacement activities at our facilities to claims of noncompliance. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Certain of our facilities are also required to comply with the terms of consent decrees or other governmental orders. With the continuing trend toward stricter environmental standards and more extensive regulatory and permitting requirements, our capital and operating environmental expenditures are likely to be substantial and may increase in the future. We may not be able to obtain or maintain all required environmental regulatory permits or other approvals that we need to operate one or more of our facilities. If there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approvals or permits, or if we fail to obtain any required approval or permit, or if we are unable to comply with the terms of such approvals or permits, the operation of our facilities may be interrupted or become subject to additional costs and, as a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents Our business is subject to complex government regulation. Changes in these regulations or in their implementation may affect costs of operating our facilities or our ability to operate our facilities, or increase competition, any of which would negatively impact our results of operations. We are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the generation and sale of energy commodities in each of the jurisdictions in which we have operations. Compliance with these ever-changing laws and regulations requires expenses (including legal representation) and monitoring, capital and operating expenditures. Potential changes in laws and regulations that could have a material impact on our business include: re-regulation of the power industry in markets in which we conduct business; the introduction, or reintroduction, of rate caps or pricing constraints; or a variation of these. Furthermore, these and other market-based rules and regulations are subject to change at any time, and we cannot predict what changes may occur in the future or how such changes might affect any facet of our business. The costs and burdens associated with complying with the increased number of regulations may have a material adverse effect on us, if we fail to comply with the laws and regulations governing our business or if we fail to maintain or obtain advantageous regulatory authorizations and exemptions. Moreover, increased competition within the sector resulting from potential legislative changes, regulatory changes or other factors may create greater risks to the stability of our power generation earnings and cash flows generally. Availability and cost of emission allowances could materially impact our costs of operations. We are required to maintain, either through allocation or purchase, sufficient emission allowances to support our operations in the ordinary course of operating our power generation facilities. These allowances are used to meet our obligations imposed by various applicable environmental laws, with respect to which the trend toward more stringent regulations (including regulations currently proposed or being discussed regarding CO2 emissions) will likely require us to obtain new or additional emission allowances. If our operational needs require more than our allocated quantity of emission allowances, we may be forced to purchase such allowances on the open market, which could be costly. If we are unable to maintain sufficient emission allowances to match our operational needs, we may have to curtail our operations so as not to exceed our available emission allowances, or install costly new emissions controls. As we use the emissions allowances that we have purchased on the open market, costs associated with such purchases will be recognized as operating expense. If such allowances are available for purchase, but only at significantly higher prices, their purchase could materially increase our costs of operations in the affected markets and materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Competition in wholesale power markets, together with an oversupply of power generation capacity in certain regional markets, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have numerous competitors, and additional competitors may enter the industry. Our power generation business competes with other non-utility generators, regulated utilities, unregulated subsidiaries of regulated utilities and other energy service companies in the sale of electric energy, capacity and ancillary services, as well as in the procurement of fuel, transmission and transportation services. Moreover, aggregate demand for power may be met by generation capacity based on several competing technologies, as well as power generating facilities fueled by alternative or renewable energy sources, including hydroelectric power, synthetic fuels, solar, wind, wood, geothermal, waste heat and solid waste sources. Regulatory initiatives designed to enhance renewable generation could increase competition from these types of facilities. In addition, a buildup of new electric generation facilities in recent years has resulted in an oversupply of power generation capacity in certain regional markets we serve. We also compete against other energy merchants on the basis of our relative operating skills, financial position and access to credit sources. Electric energy customers, wholesale energy suppliers and transporters often seek financial guarantees, credit support such as letters of credit, and other assurances that their energy contracts will be satisfied. Companies with which we compete may have greater resources in these areas. In addition, certain of our current facilities are relatively old. Newer plants owned by competitors will often be more efficient than some of our plants, which may put some of our plants at a competitive disadvantage. Over time, some of our plants may become obsolete in their markets, or be unable to compete, because of the construction of new, more efficient plants. 22 Table of Contents Other factors may contribute to increased competition in wholesale power markets. New forms of capital and competitors have entered the industry in the last several years, including financial investors who perceive that asset values are at levels below their true replacement value. As a result, a number of generation facilities in the United States are now owned by lenders and investment companies. Furthermore, mergers and asset reallocations in the industry could create powerful new competitors. Under any scenario, we anticipate that we will face competition from numerous companies in the industry, some of which have superior capital structures. Moreover, many companies in the regulated utility industry, with which the wholesale power industry is closely linked, are also restructuring or reviewing their strategies. Several of those companies have discontinued or are discontinuing their unregulated activities and seeking to divest or spin-off their unregulated subsidiaries. Some of those companies have had, or are attempting to have, their regulated subsidiaries acquire assets out of their or other companies’ unregulated subsidiaries. This may lead to increased competition between the regulated utilities and the unregulated power producers within certain markets. To the extent that competition increases, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. We do not own or control transmission facilities required to sell the wholesale power from our generation facilities. If the transmission service is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver wholesale power may be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, these transmission facilities are operated by RTOs and ISOs , which are subject to changes in structure and operation and impose various pricing limitations. These changes and pricing limitations may affect our ability to deliver power to the market that would, in turn, adversely affect the profitability of our generation facilities. We do not own or control the transmission facilities required to sell the wholesale power from our generation facilities. If the transmission service from these facilities is unavailable or disrupted, or if the transmission capacity infrastructure is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver wholesale power may be materially adversely affected. RTOs and ISOs provide transmission services, administer transparent and competitive power markets and maintain system reliability. Many of these RTOs and ISOs operate in the real-time and day-ahead markets in which we sell energy. The RTOs and ISOs that oversee most of the wholesale power markets impose, and in the future may continue to impose, offer caps and other mechanisms to guard against the potential exercise of market power in these markets as well as price limitations. These types of price limitations and other regulatory mechanisms may adversely affect the profitability of our generation facilities that sell energy and capacity into the wholesale power markets. Problems or delays that may arise in the formation and operation of new or maturing RTOs and similar market structures, or changes in geographic scope, rules or market operations of existing RTOs, may also affect our ability to sell, the prices we receive or the cost to transmit power produced by our generating facilities. Rules governing the various regional power markets may also change from time to time, which could affect our costs or revenues. Additionally, if the transmission service from these facilities is unavailable or disrupted, or if the transmission capacity infrastructure is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver wholesale power may be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, the rates for transmission capacity from these facilities are set by others and thus are subject to changes, some of which could be significant, and as a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. Our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would be adversely impacted by strikes or work stoppages by our unionized employees. A majority of the employees at our facilities are subject to collective bargaining agreements with various unions that expire from 2010 through 2012. Employees at our Griffith facility in Arizona have voted for union certification, and we are currently engaged in discussions with their representatives regarding a collective bargaining agreement. Similar unionization activities could occur at other generating facilities in our fleet. If union employees strike, participate in a work stoppage or slowdown or engage in other forms of labor strife or disruption, we could experience reduced power generation or outages if replacement labor is not procured. The ability to procure such replacement labor is uncertain. Strikes, work stoppages or an inability to negotiate future collective bargaining agreements on commercially reasonable terms could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 23 Table of Contents Costs of compliance with our Consent Decree may be materially adversely impacted by unforeseen labor, material and equipment costs. As a result of the Consent Decree, we are required to not operate certain of our most profitable power generating facilities after specified dates unless certain emission control equipment is installed. We have incurred significant costs in complying with the Consent Decree and anticipate incurring additional significant costs over the course of the next four years. We are exposed to the risk of substantial price increases in the costs of materials, labor and equipment used in the construction. We are further exposed to risk in that counterparties to the projects may fail to perform, in which case we would be forced to enter into alternative arrangements at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices and possibly cause delays to the project timelines. If the costs of these capital expenditures become great enough to render the operation of the facility uneconomical, we could, at our option, cease to operate the facility or facilities and forego these capital expenditures without incurring any further obligations under the Consent Decree. Risks Related to Our Financial Structure, Level of Indebtedness and Access to Capital Markets An event of loss and certain other events relating to our Dynegy Northeast Generation facilities could trigger a substantial obligation that would be difficult for us to satisfy. We acquired the DNE power generating facilities in January 2001 for $950 million. In May 2001, we entered into an asset-backed sale-leaseback transaction relating to these facilities to provide us with long-term acquisition financing. In this transaction, we sold four of the six generating units comprising these facilities for approximately $920 million to Danskammer OL LLC and Roseton OL LLC, and we concurrently agreed to lease them back from these entities. We have no option to purchase the leased facilities at Roseton or Danskammer at the end of their lease terms, which end in 2035 and 2031, respectively. If one or more of the leases were to be terminated prior to the end of its term because of an event of loss (such as substantial damage to a facility or a condemnation or similar governmental taking or action), because it becomes illegal for us to comply with the lease, or because a change in law makes the facility economically or technologically obsolete, we would be required to make a termination payment in an amount sufficient to compensate the lessor for termination of the lease, including redeeming the pass-through trust certificates related to the unit or facility for which the lease is terminated. As of December 31, 2008, the termination payment would be approximately $930 million for all of our DNE facilities. It could be difficult for us to raise sufficient funds to make this termination payment if a termination of this type were to occur with respect to the DNE facilities, resulting in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have significant debt that could negatively impact our business. We have and will continue to have a significant amount of debt outstanding. As of December 31, 2008, we had total consolidated debt of approximately $6 billion. Our significant level of debt could: • make it difficult to satisfy our financial obligations; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing; • limit our financial flexibility in planning for and reacting to business and industry changes; • impact the evaluation of our creditworthiness by counterparties to commercial agreements and affect the level of collateral we are required to post under such agreements; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged companies; • impact our ability to participate in industry consolidation; and • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions. Furthermore, we may incur or assume additional debt in the future. If new debt is added to our current debt levels and those of our subsidiaries, the related risks that we and they face could increase significantly. 24 Table of Contents Our financing agreements governing our debt obligations require us to meet specific financial tests. Our failure to comply with those financial covenants could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our financing agreements, including the Fifth Amended and Restated Credit Facility, as amended, have terms that restrict our ability to take specific actions in planning for and responding to changes in our business without the consent of the lenders, even if such actions may be in our best interest. The agreements governing our debt obligations require us to meet specific financial tests both as a matter of course and as a precondition to the incurrence of additional debt and to the making of restricted payments or asset sales, among other things. Our obligations relating to ongoing financial tests include the maintenance of specified financial ratios regarding Secured Debt to EBITDA and EBITDA to Consolidated Interest Expense (as each such term is defined in the Fifth Amended and Restated Credit Facility). The financial tests set forth as a precondition to the events described above include the demonstration, on a pro forma basis, of a specified ratio of Total Indebtedness to EBITDA (as each such term is defined in the Fifth Amended and Restated Credit Facility). Any additional long-term debt that we may enter into in the future may also contain similar restrictions. Our ability to comply with the financial tests and other covenants in our financing agreements, as they currently exist or as they may be amended, may be affected by many events beyond our control, and our future operating results may not allow us to comply with the covenants or, in the event of a default, to remedy that default. Our failure to comply with those financial covenants or to comply with the other restrictions in our financing agreements could result in a default, causing our debt obligations under such financing agreements (and by reason of cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions, our other indebtedness) to become immediately due and payable, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. If those lenders accelerate the payment of such indebtedness, we cannot assure you that we could pay off or refinance that indebtedness immediately and continue to operate our business. If we are unable to repay those amounts, otherwise cure the default, or obtain replacement financing, the holders of the indebtedness under our secured debt obligations would be entitled to foreclose on, and acquire control of substantially all of our assets, which would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our access to the capital markets may be limited. We may require additional capital from time to time. Because of our non-investment grade credit rating and/or general conditions in the financial and credit markets, our access to the capital markets may be limited. Moreover, the timing of any capital-raising transaction may be impacted by unforeseen events, such as legal or regulatory requirements, which could require us to pursue additional capital at an inopportune time. Our ability to obtain capital and the costs of such capital are dependent on numerous factors, including: • general economic and capital market conditions, including the timing and magnitude of market recovery; • covenants in our existing debt and credit agreements; • investor confidence in us and the regional wholesale power markets; • our financial performance and the financial performance of our subsidiaries; • our levels of debt; • our requirements for posting collateral under various commercial agreements; • our credit ratings; • our cash flow; and • our long-term business prospects. We may not be successful in obtaining additional capital for these or other reasons. An inability to access capital may limit our ability to comply with regulatory requirements and, as a result, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, inability to access capital may also limit our ability to pursue development projects, plant improvements or acquisitions designed to contribute to future growth. 25 Table of Contents Our non-investment grade status may adversely impact our operations, increase our liquidity requirements and increase the cost of refinancing opportunities. We may not have adequate liquidity to post required amounts of additional collateral. Our credit ratings are currently below investment grade. We cannot assure you that our credit ratings will improve, or that they will not decline, in the future. Our credit ratings may affect the evaluation of our creditworthiness by trading counterparties and lenders, which could put us at a disadvantage to competitors with higher or investment grade ratings. In carrying out our commercial business strategy, our current non-investment grade credit ratings have resulted and will likely continue to result in requirements that we either prepay obligations or post significant amounts of collateral to support our business. Various commodity trading counterparties make collateral demands that reflect our non-investment grade credit ratings, the counterparties’ views of our creditworthiness, as well as changes in commodity prices. We use a portion of our capital resources, in the form of cash, lien capacity, and letters of credit, to satisfy these counterparty collateral demands. Our commodity agreements are tied to market pricing and may require us to post additional collateral under certain circumstances. If market conditions change such that counterparties are entitled to additional collateral, our liquidity could be strained and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Factors that could trigger increased demands for collateral include additional adverse changes in our industry, negative regulatory or litigation developments, adverse events affecting us, changes in our credit rating or liquidity and changes in commodity prices for power and fuel. Additionally, our non-investment grade credit ratings may limit our ability to refinance our debt obligations and to access the capital markets at the lower borrowing costs that would presumably be available to competitors with higher or investment grade ratings. Should our ratings continue at their current levels, or should our ratings be further downgraded, we would expect these negative effects to continue and, in the case of a downgrade, become more pronounced. We conduct a substantial portion of our operations through our subsidiaries and may be limited in our ability to access funds from these subsidiaries to service our debt. We conduct a substantial portion of our operations through our subsidiaries and depend to a large degree upon dividends and other intercompany transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to meet our debt service and other obligations. In addition, the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends and make other payments to us may be restricted by, among other things, applicable corporate and other laws, potentially adverse tax consequences and agreements of our subsidiaries. If we are unable to access the cash flow of our subsidiaries, we may have difficulty meeting our debt obligations. Risks Related to Investing If our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. We have significant intangible assets and goodwill recorded on our balance sheet. In accordance with GAAP, we review our intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered are a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or intangible assets may not be recoverable including a decline in future cash flows and slower growth rates in the energy industry. 26 Table of Contents As a result of recent declines in the quoted price of Dynegy’s Class A common stock, its market capitalization is currently less than its stockholders’ equity. We have performed the test for impairment and concluded that a goodwill impairment loss has not occurred at this time. However, should Dynegy’s stockholders’ equity remain above its market capitalization, further goodwill impairment testing will be performed in future periods and may result in an impairment loss, which could be material. The LS Control Group’s significant interest in Dynegy could be determinative in matters submitted to a vote by Dynegy’s stockholders. In addition, the rights granted to the LS Shareholders (as defined below) under the Shareholder Agreement (as defined below) and Dynegy’s amended and restated bylaws provide them significant influence over Dynegy. Such influence could result in Dynegy failing to take actions that Dynegy’s other stockholders support. The LS Control Group’s ownership interest in Dynegy, together with its rights under the Shareholder Agreement and Dynegy’s amended and restated bylaws, provides it with significant influence over the conduct of our business. Given the LS Control Group’s significant interest in Dynegy, it may have the power to determine the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of all of Dynegy’s stockholders. Rights granted to the LS Control Group under the Shareholder Agreement and Dynegy’s amended and restated bylaws that provide it with significant influence over Dynegy’s business include: • the ability to nominate up to three directors to Dynegy’s board of directors based on its percentage ownership interest in Dynegy; and • the requirement that Dynegy not pursue any of the following actions if all directors nominated by the LS Control Group present at the relevant board meeting vote against such action: • any amendment of Dynegy’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws; • any merger or consolidation of Dynegy and certain dispositions of Dynegy’s assets or businesses, certain acquisitions, binding capital commitments, guarantees and investments and certain joint ventures with an aggregate value in excess of a specified amount; • Dynegy’s payment of dividends or similar distributions; • Dynegy’s engagement in new lines of business; • Dynegy’s liquidation or dissolution, or certain bankruptcy-related events with respect to Dynegy; • Dynegy’s issuance of any equity securities, with certain exceptions for issuances of Dynegy’s Class A common stock; • Dynegy’s incurrence of any indebtedness in excess of a specified amount; • the hiring, or termination of the employment of, Dynegy’s Chief Executive Officer (other than Bruce A. Williamson); • our entry into any agreement or other action that limits the activities of any holder of Dynegy’s Class B common stock or any of such holder’s affiliates; and • our entry into other material transactions with a value in excess of a specified amount. The LS Control Group’s influence could result in us failing to take actions that Dynegy’s other stockholders do support. 27 Table of Contents Dynegy’s stockholders may be adversely affected by the expiration of the Lock-Up Period in the Shareholder Agreement, which would enable the LS Control Group to transfer a significant percentage of Dynegy’s common stock to a third party. The acquisition and transfer provisions in the Shareholder Agreement, subject to specified exceptions, restrict the LS Control Group from acquiring or transferring shares of Dynegy’s common stock. Subject to specified exceptions, including the ability to transfer 21.25 million shares per six-month period (not to exceed 42.5 million shares in any one year), the LS Control Group is prohibited from acquiring or transferring shares of Dynegy’s common stock until the expiration of the Lock-Up Period which is the earlier of: • April 2, 2009; • the date the stockholders party to the Shareholder Agreement cease to own at least 15 percent of the total combined voting power of Dynegy’s outstanding securities; or • if certain conditions are met, the date a third-party offer is made to acquire more than 25 percent of Dynegy’s assets or voting securities. Following expiration of the Lock-Up Period, the LS Control Group will be free to sell their shares of Dynegy’s common stock, subject to certain exceptions, to any person on the open market, in privately negotiated transactions or otherwise in accordance with law. If the LS Control Group exercises this right, it could have a dilutive effect on the outstanding Class A common stock. In addition, the market’s perception of how or when the LS Control Group might exercise its right could create an “overhang” on our Class A common stock and impact its trading price for an extended period of time. We may pursue acquisitions or combinations that could fail or present unanticipated problems for our business in the future, which would adversely affect our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of those transactions. We may seek to enter into transactions that may include acquiring or combining with other businesses. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition or combination opportunities or finance and complete any particular acquisition or combination successfully. Furthermore, acquisitions and combinations involve a number of risks and challenges, including: • diversion of our management’s attention; • the ability to obtain required regulatory and other approvals; • the need to integrate acquired or combined operations with our operations; • potential loss of key employees; • difficulty in evaluating the power assets, operating costs, infrastructure requirements, environmental and other liabilities and other factors beyond our control; • potential lack of operating experience in new geographic/power markets or with different fuel sources; • an increase in our expenses and working capital requirements; and • the possibility that we may be required to issue a substantial amount of additional equity or debt securities or assume additional debt in connection with any such transactions. Any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to achieve anticipated levels of cash flows or realize synergies or other anticipated benefits from a strategic transaction. Furthermore, the market for transactions is highly competitive, which may adversely affect our ability to find transactions that fit our strategic objectives or increase the price we would be required to pay (which could decrease the benefit of the transaction or hinder our desire or ability to consummate the transaction). Consistent with industry practice, we routinely engage in discussions with industry participants regarding potential transactions, large and small. We intend to continue to engage in strategic discussions and will need to respond to potential opportunities quickly and decisively. As a result, strategic transactions may occur at any time and may be significant in size relative to our assets and operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 