ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have set forth below risk factors, as of the date this report is being filed, that we believe are applicable to us. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business. If any of the events described below occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our income, cash flows and asset values. Our income and cash flows and the value of our assets depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest rates we earn on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest rates we pay on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors, which are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. If the rate of interest we pay on our deposits and other borrowings increases more than the rate of interest we earn on our loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore our earnings, could be adversely affected. Our earnings also could be adversely affected if the rates on our loans and other investments fall more quickly than those on our deposits and other borrowings. Economic conditions either nationally or locally in areas in which our operations are concentrated may adversely affect our business. Deterioration in local, regional, national or global economic conditions could cause us to experience a reduction in deposits and new loans, an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loans, all of which could adversely affect our performance and financial condition. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services locally, specifically, within San Diego County. Therefore, we are particularly vulnerable to adverse local economic conditions. Our small business customers may lack the resources to weather a downturn in the economy. One of the primary focal points of our business is serving the banking and financial services needs of small and medium-sized businesses and professionals within our service area. Such customers generally have fewer 15 financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than do larger businesses. If economic conditions are generally unfavorable in San Diego County, our customers may not be able to fully repay their loans and we could suffer loan losses as a result. Our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected if our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to absorb actual losses or if we are required to increase our allowance. Despite our underwriting criteria, we may experience loan delinquencies and losses. In order to absorb losses associated with nonperforming loans, we maintain an allowance for loan losses based on, among other things, historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions, and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. Determination of the allowance inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. At any time there are likely to be loans in our portfolio that will result in losses but that have not been identified as nonperforming or potential problem credits. We cannot be sure that we will be able to identify deteriorating credits before they become nonperforming assets or that we will be able to limit losses on those loans that are identified. We may be required to increase our allowance for loan losses for any of several reasons. Regulators, in reviewing our loan portfolio as part of a regulatory examination, may request that we increase our allowance for loan losses. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in our allowance. In addition, actual charge-offs in future periods, if not adequately reserved for, will require additional increases in our allowance for loan losses. Any increases in our allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in our net income and, possibly, our capital, and may materially affect our results of operations in the period in which the allowance is increased. Competition with other banks and other financial institutions may decrease our growth or profits. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors, including other banks and other financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, savings banks, finance companies and credit unions. There is very strong competition among financial services providers in our service area. Our competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits, larger branch systems and a wider array of banking services than we offer. Accordingly, they may be able to offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can. This competition may reduce or limit our profit margins on banking services, may keep us from building or maintaining market share and may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, some of the financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on federally insured financial institutions. As a result, those nonbank competitors may be able to access funding and provide various services more easily or at less cost than we can, adversely affecting our ability to compete effectively. We operate in a highly regulated industry, which adds significant costs to our operations. Banking is a heavily regulated industry and the costs of regulatory compliance are rising. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect the federal deposit insurance funds and depositors, not shareholders. Changes in the laws, regulations, and regulatory practices affecting the banking industry may increase our costs of doing business or otherwise adversely affect us and create competitive advantages for others. Regulations affecting banks and financial services companies undergo continuous change, and we cannot predict the ultimate effect of these changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability or financial condition. We will be implementing Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in 2007 and the costs to implement may be material and may affect our profitability. We rely on our management and other key personnel, and the loss of any of them may adversely affect our operations. We are and will continue to be dependent upon the services of our executive management team. In addition, we will continue to depend on our ability to retain and recruit key loan officers. The unexpected loss of services of any key management personnel or loan officers could have an adverse effect on our business and 16 financial condition because of their skills, knowledge of our market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. In the event that the employment of our executive officers is terminated in the future without cause, under the terms of their respective employment agreements, each of our executive officers would be entitled to receive continued salary at the rate then in effect for varying periods of time following termination. Such obligations to make severance payments could be triggered in the event we are acquired and the executive officer is terminated in connection with such acquisition. Failure to implement new technologies in our operations may adversely affect our growth or profits. Advances in technology increasingly affect the market for financial services, including banking services and consumer finance services. Our ability to compete successfully in our markets may depend on the extent to which we are able to exploit such technological changes. However, we can provide no assurance that we will be able properly or timely to anticipate or implement such technologies or properly train our staff to use such technologies. Further, the added cost of technology for a small bank such as us adversely affects our profitability. Any failure to adapt to new technologies could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. An investment in our common stock is not an insured deposit. Our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, commonly referred to as the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. We plan to continue to grow and there are risks associated with growth. We intend to continue to expand our business and operations to increase deposits and loans. Continued growth may present operating and other problems that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our growth may place a strain on our administrative, operational, personnel and financial resources and increase demands on our systems and controls. Our ability to manage growth successfully will depend on our ability to attract qualified personnel and maintain cost controls and asset quality while attracting additional loans and deposits on favorable terms, as well as on factors beyond our control, such as economic conditions and interest rate trends. If we grow too quickly and are not able to attract qualified personnel, control costs and maintain asset quality, this continued rapid growth could materially adversely affect our financial performance. Our legal lending limits are relatively low and restrict our ability to compete for larger customers. At December 31, 2006, our lending limit per borrower was approximately $8.6 million, which is primarily based on our capital level. Accordingly, the size of loans that we can offer to potential borrowers (without participation by other lenders) is less than the size of loans that many of our competitors with larger capitalization are able to offer. Our legal lending limit also impacts the efficiency of our lending operation because it tends to lower our average loan size, which means we have to generate a higher number of transactions to achieve the same portfolio volume. We may engage in loan participations with other banks for loans in excess of our legal lending limits. However, there can be no assurance that such participations will be available at all or on terms, which are favorable to us and to our customers. We may be unable to consummate our proposed merger with Landmark National Bank. Our proposed merger with Landmark, described in more detail above, is anticipated to close in the second or third quarter of 2007 but must be approved by both our and Landmark’s shareholders before it can be finalized. Consummation of this merger is also subject to the receipt of required regulatory approvals and the satisfaction of other customary closing conditions. If the merger is not completed for any reason, our stock price may decline because certain costs related to the merger, such as legal, accounting and a portion of financial advisory fees, must be paid even if the merger is not completed. In addition, if the merger is not completed, our stock price may decline to the extent that the current market price reflects the assumption by investors that the merger will be completed. 17 We may not be able to achieve the benefits and efficiencies expected as a result of our anticipated acquisition of Landmark National Bank. We have entered into a merger agreement with Landmark based on the belief, after thorough analysis, that the anticipated impact on the merged operations, growth of its customer base, and improved efficiencies resulting from economies of scale, will positively effect the our results of operations and related earnings per share. Actual results may differ materially from those anticipated due to various risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to the possible loss of key employees; the planned merger and relative cost savings cannot be realized or realized within the expected time frame; revenues are lower than expected; the integration of Landmark’s business costs more, takes longer or is less successful than expected; our ability to obtain the cash required to consummate the transaction, or to achieve expected synergies and operating efficiencies within expected time-frames or at all, or to successfully integrate Landmark’s operations; or regulatory approvals for the proposed merger cannot be obtained on the terms expected or on the anticipated schedule. These could negatively affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees, or achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger within the time period expected, if at all. As with any merger of financial institutions, there may also be disruptions that cause customers, both deposit and loan, to take their business to competitors. Although we believe that we have strong management, polices and procedures, and experience to integrate Landmark’s operations, no guarantees exist that Landmark’s integration within our operations will be successful. Uncertainty regarding the merger may result in the loss of the employees and customers of either Landmark or us prior to the completion of the merger. Employees of Landmark and us may experience uncertainty about their future role with the combined bank. This may adversely affect the ability of the combined bank to retain and attract key management and other personnel. Similarly, uncertainty regarding the merger may cause customers of Landmark or of ours to withdraw their business prior to the completion of the merger. Any loss of Landmark’s or our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, regardless of whether or not the merger is ultimately completed. There can be no assurance that customers of either of Landmark or us will continue their business without regard to the proposed merger. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company is not aware of any unresolved comments from the staff of the SEC. 