Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the following risk factors and the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before making any investment decisions regarding our securities. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. As a result, the trading price of our securities could decline and you may lose part or all of your investment. 8 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business General economic conditions and commercial real estate market conditions, both globally and domestically, have had and may in the future have a negative impact on our business. We have experienced, in 2009, 2008 and previous years, and expect in the future to be negatively impacted by, periods of economic slowdowns, recessions and disruptions in the capital markets, credit and liquidity issues in the global and domestic capital markets, including international, national, regional and local markets, and corresponding declines in the demand for commercial real estate and related services within one or more of the markets in which we operate. Historically, commercial real estate markets, and in particular the U.S. commercial real estate market, have tended to be cyclical and related to the condition of the economy as a whole and to the perceptions of the market participants as to the relevant economic outlook. Negative economic conditions, changes in interest rates, credit and liquidity issues in the global and domestic capital markets, disruptions in capital markets and/or declines in the demand for commercial real estate and related services in international or domestic markets or in significant markets in which we do business, have had and could have in the future a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. In the latter half of 2009, there has been an improvement in the U.S. stock markets as well as, in certain instances, increasing confidence and stabilization in domestic and foreign economies. However, credit restrictions and market uncertainty have continued into 2010, and we can give no assurances when sustainable improvements will occur within the U.S. commercial real estate markets. In addition, even when underlying economic fundamentals improve, it may take additional time for these improvements to translate into corresponding improvements in the commercial real estate markets. Any such “lag” may be intensified in the current market situation as a result of banks potentially delaying resolution of commercial real estate assets whose values are less than their associated loans so as to delay or avoid related accounting write-offs. For example: • Slowdowns in economic activity could cause tenant demand for space to decline, which would adversely affect the operation and income of commercial real estate properties and thereby affect investor demand and the supply of capital for debt and equity investments in commercial real estate. • Declines in the regional or local demand for commercial real estate, or significant disruptions in other segments of the real estate market, could adversely affect our results of operations. During 2009, approximately 20.4%, 8.1%, 5.6% and 12.7% of our capital markets services revenues was derived from transactions involving commercial real estate located in Texas, Florida, Massachusetts and the region consisting of the District of Columbia, Maryland and Virginia, respectively. As a result, a significant portion of our business is dependent on the economic conditions in general and the markets for commercial real estate in these areas, which, like other commercial real estate markets, have experienced price volatility or economic downturns in the past. • Global and domestic credit and liquidity issues, significant fluctuations in interest rates as well as steady and protracted increases or decreases of interest rates could adversely affect the operation and income of commercial real estate properties as well as the demand from investors for commercial real estate investments. Any of these events could adversely affect investor demand and the supply of capital for debt and equity investments in commercial real estate. In particular, the lack of debt and/or equity for commercial real estate transactions and the resulting global re-pricing of debt and equity risk, and/or increased interest rates may reduce the number of acquisitions, dispositions and loan originations, as well as the respective transaction volumes, which could also adversely affect our servicing revenue. All of the above could cause prices to decrease due to the reduced amount of financing available as well as the increased cost of obtaining financing, and could lead to a decrease in purchase and sale activity. • Significant disruptions or changes in capital market flows, as well as credit and liquidity issues in the global and domestic capital markets, regardless of their duration, could adversely affect the supply and/or demand for capital from investors for commercial real estate investments. For example, beginning in the second half of 2007 and continuing to the present time, the well-publicized disruptions and dislocations in the global credit markets have created significant restrictions in the availability of credit. In turn, the volume and pace of commercial real estate transactions have been significantly reduced during this period and commercial 9 Table of Contents real estate prices have declined in many countries, including the U.S. Changes in the perception that commercial real estate is an accepted asset class for portfolio diversification could also result in a significant reduction in the amount of debt and equity capital available in the commercial real estate sector. These and other types of events could lead to a further decline in transaction activity as well as a decrease in values, which would likely in turn lead to a reduction in fees and commissions relating to such transactions. Such declines in transaction activity and value would likely also significantly reduce our loan servicing activities as a result of increased delinquencies and the lack of additional loans that we would have otherwise added to our servicing portfolio. These effects would likely cause us to realize lower revenues from our transaction service fees, including debt placement fees and investment sales commissions, which fees usually are tied to the transaction value and are payable upon the successful completion of a particular transaction, and from our loan servicing revenues due to reduced financing and refinancing transactions as well as higher delinquencies and defaults on the loans that we service. For example, the revenues we generated from capital markets services in 2009 declined approximately 42.7% from 2008, largely due to disruptions in the U.S. credit markets and deteriorating property level fundamentals in the commercial real estate markets. In addition, cyclicality in the commercial real estate markets may result in cyclicality in our results of operation as well as significant volatility in the market price of our Class A common stock. Similar to other providers of commercial real estate and capital markets services, the stock price of our Class A common stock has had significant declines and fluctuations in the recent past and may decline in the future. Our business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by recent restrictions in the availability of debt and/or equity capital as well as the lack of adequate credit and the risk of continued deterioration of the debt and/or credit markets and commercial real estate markets. Restrictions on the availability of capital, both debt and/or equity, can create significant reductions in the liquidity and flow of capital to the commercial real estate markets. Severe restrictions in debt and/or equity liquidity as well as the lack of the availability of credit in the markets we service in 2008 and 2009 have significantly reduced the volume and pace of commercial real estate transactions compared with past periods. These restrictions also have had a general negative effect upon commercial real estate prices themselves. Our business of providing commercial real estate and capital markets services to our clients, who are both users and providers of capital, is particularly sensitive to the volume of activity and pricing in the commercial real estate market. In particular, global and domestic credit and liquidity issues reduced the number of acquisitions, dispositions and loan originations in 2009 and 2008 which may continue into the future. This has had, and may continue to have, a significant adverse effect on our capital markets services revenues. Despite the general improvement in the U.S. stock markets in the second half of 2009, credit restrictions and market uncertainties continue and we cannot predict with any degree of certainty the magnitude or duration of the recent developments in the credit markets and/or commercial real estate markets as it is inherently difficult to make accurate predictions with respect to such macroeconomic movements that are beyond our control. This uncertainty limits our ability to plan for future developments. In addition, the uncertainty regarding current market conditions may limit the ability of other participants in the credit markets and/or commercial real estate markets to plan for the future. As a result, market participants may act more conservatively than they might in a stabilized market, which may perpetuate and amplify the adverse developments in the markets we service. While business opportunities may emerge from assisting clients with transactions relating to distressed commercial real estate assets, there can be no assurance that the volume of such transactions will be sufficient to meaningfully offset the declines in transaction volumes within the overall commercial real estate market. If we are unable to retain and attract qualified and experienced transaction professionals and associates, our growth may be limited and our business and operating results could suffer. Our most important asset is our people, and our continued success is highly dependent upon the efforts of our transaction professionals and other associates, including our analysts and production coordinators as well as our key servicing and company overhead support associates. Our transaction professionals generate a significant majority of our revenues. If any of these key transaction professionals or other important associates leave, or if we lose a 10 Table of Contents significant number of transaction professionals, or if we are unable to attract other qualified transaction professionals, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. We have experienced in the past, and expect to experience in the future, the negative impact of the inability to retain and attract associates, analysts and experienced transaction professionals. Additionally, such events may have a disproportionate adverse effect on our operations if the senior most experienced transaction professionals do not remain with us or if these events occur in geographic areas where substantial amounts of our capital markets services revenues are generated. Moreover, because a significant portion of the compensation paid to our transaction professionals consists of commissions, in general our transaction professionals receive significantly less compensation at times when we have substantial declines in our capital markets services revenues, as has recently been the case, and may therefore have less incentive to remain with the Company during such challenging periods. We may also face additional retention pressures as a result of reductions, as compared to prior to our initial public offering, in distributions from HFF Holdings to approximately 40 of our most valuable transaction professionals who are the members of HFF Holdings. Even if we are able to retain them, we may not be able to retain them at compensation levels that will allow us to achieve our target ratio of compensation expense-to-operating revenue. We intend to use a combination of cash compensation, equity, equity-based incentives and other employee benefits rather than solely cash compensation to motivate and retain our transaction professionals. Our compensation mechanisms as a public company may not be effective, especially if the market price of our Class A common stock experiences significant declines such as what occurred during 2008 and 2009. In addition, our competitors may attempt to recruit our transaction professionals. The employment arrangements, non-competition agreements and retention agreements we have entered into with respect to the members of HFF Holdings or may enter into with our key associates may not prevent our transaction professionals and other key associates from resigning or competing against us. Any such arrangements and agreements will expire after a certain period of time, at which point each such person would be free to compete against us and solicit our clients and employees. In particular, the non-competition agreements entered into with the members of HFF Holdings terminate in March 2011. We currently do not have employments agreements with certain key associates and there is no assurance that we will be able to retain their services. A significant component of our growth has also occurred through the recruiting, hiring and retention of key experienced transaction professionals. Any future growth through recruiting these types of professionals will be partially dependent upon the continued availability of attractive candidates fitting the culture of our firm at advantageous employment terms and conditions. However, individuals whom we would like to hire may not be available upon advantageous employment terms and conditions. In addition, the hiring of new personnel involves risks that the persons acquired will not perform in accordance with expectations and that business judgments concerning the value, strengths and weaknesses of persons acquired will prove incorrect. The deteriorating business of certain of our clients could adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. We could be adversely affected by the actions and deteriorating financial condition and results of operations of certain of our clients. Our clients are both users of capital, such as property owners, and providers of capital, such as lenders and equity investors. Defaults or non-performance by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity crises and could lead to losses or defaults by one or more of our clients, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, a client may fail to make payments when due, become insolvent or declare bankruptcy. Any client bankruptcy or insolvency or the failure of any client to make payments when due could result in material losses to our company. In particular, if any of our significant clients becomes insolvent or suffers a downturn in its business, it may seriously harm our business. While in 2008 and 2009 no one borrower or no one seller client, respectively, represented more than 5% of our total capital markets services revenues, bankruptcy filings by or relating to one of our clients could delay or bar us from collecting pre-bankruptcy debts from that client. 11 Table of Contents Additional indebtedness or an inability to obtain indebtedness may make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures. We may be required to obtain additional financing to fund our on-going capital needs as well as to fund our working capital needs. Any additional indebtedness that we are able to incur will make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures. In addition, an inability to obtain additional indebtedness will also make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures. The level of our indebtedness or inability to obtain additional indebtedness could have important consequences, including: • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations may be dedicated to debt service and may not be available for other purposes; • our cash flow from operations may be insufficient to fund our business operations and our inability to obtain financing will make it more difficult to fund our operations; • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • obtaining financing in the future for our warehouse lending activities related to our Freddie Mac Program Plus Seller Servicer business, working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes, including acquisitions, and may impede our ability to process our capital markets platform services as well as to secure favorable lease terms; • making it more difficult to continue to fund our strategic growth initiatives and retain and attract key individuals; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors with less debt and greater financial resources. Our future cash flow may not be sufficient to meet our obligations and commitments. In addition, our $40.0 million credit facility expired by its terms on the maturity date of February 5, 2010 and we chose not to exercise our extension option. While we did not borrow on the revolving credit facility during its existence and we currently believe that cash flows from operating activities and our existing cash balances will be sufficient to meet our working capital needs for the foreseeable future, we cannot make any assurances that we will not be required to incur indebtedness under another source of indebtedness financing in the future. If we are unable to obtain additional financing or generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our indebtedness and to meet our other commitments, we will be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as closing offices, selling material assets or operations, seeking to raise additional debt or equity capital, eliminating certain lines of our capital market platforms or terminating significant numbers of key associates. These actions may not be effected on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms or at all, and these actions may not enable us to continue to satisfy our operating and/or capital requirements. As a result, we may not be able to maintain or accelerate our growth, and any failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and control our expenses, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The current global credit and financial crisis could affect the ability or willingness of the financial institutions with whom we currently do business to provide funding under our current financing arrangements. The unprecedented disruptions and dislocations in the credit markets have created significant changes in the status and creditworthiness of some of the world’s largest banks, investment banks and other financial institutions. A diminution in the ease at which our current financing sources can be drawn upon could negatively impact our liquidity. 12 Table of Contents While we are party to an uncommitted $175 million warehouse line of credit with PNC Bank, National Association (“PNC”) and an uncommitted $75 million warehouse line of credit ($100.0 million through March 1, 2010) with The Huntington National Bank (“Huntington”) to fund our Freddie Mac loan closings in connection with our participation in Freddie Mac’s Program Plus Seller Servicer program, such warehouse line of credit arrangements are uncommitted and funded on a transaction-by-transaction basis. As of December 31, 2009, we had aggregate outstanding borrowings of $38.8 million under the PNC and Huntington arrangements (and a corresponding amount of mortgage notes receivable). Although we believe that our current financing arrangements with PNC and Huntington are sufficient to meet our current needs in connection with our participation in Freddie Mac’s Program Plus Seller Servicer program, in the event we are not able to secure financing for our Freddie Mac loan closings, we will cease originating such Freddie Mac loans until we have available financing. In addition, adverse conditions in the global banking industry and credit markets may adversely impact the value of our cash investments and impair our liquidity. At December 31, 2009, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $40.9 million invested or held in a mix of money market funds and bank demand deposit accounts at two financial institutions. The recent disruptions in the credit markets have, in some cases, resulted in an inability to access assets such as money market funds that traditionally have been viewed as highly liquid. Although we believe that our cash and cash equivalents are invested or placed with secure financial institutions, there is no assurance that these financial institutions will not default on their obligations to us. Moreover, although the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) insures deposits in banks and thrift institutions up to $250,000 per eligible account, the amount that we have deposited at the applicable institution substantially exceeds the FDIC limit. If the financial institution where we have deposited funds were to fail, we may lose some or all of our deposited funds that exceed the FDIC’s $250,000 insurance coverage limit. Furthermore, these investments are also subject to interest rate risk and other general market risks and may decline in value. Our business could be hurt if we are unable to retain our business philosophy and partnership culture and efforts to retain our philosophy and culture could adversely affect our ability to maintain and grow our business. We are deeply committed to maintaining the philosophy and culture which we have built. Our Mission and Vision Statement defines our business philosophy as well as the emphasis that we place on our clients, our people and our culture. We seek to reinforce to each of our associates our commitment to our clients, our culture and values by sharing with everyone in the firm what is expected from each of them. We strive to maintain a work environment that reinforces our owner-operator culture and the collaboration, motivation, alignment of interests and sense of ownership and reward associates based on their value-added performance who adhere to this culture. Our status as a public company, including potential changes in our compensation structure, could adversely affect this culture. If we do not continue to develop and implement the right processes and tools to manage our changing enterprise and maintain this culture, our ability to compete successfully and achieve our business objectives could be impaired, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in an effort to preserve our strong partnership culture, our process for hiring new transaction professionals is lengthy and highly selective. In the past, we have interviewed a significant number of individuals for each transaction professional that we hired, and we have in the past and may in the future subordinate our growth plans to our objective of hiring transaction professionals whom we think will adhere to and contribute to our culture. Our ability to maintain and grow our business could suffer if we are not able to identify, hire and retain new transaction professionals meeting our high standards, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have numerous significant competitors and potential future competitors, some of which may have greater resources than we do, and we may not be able to continue to compete effectively. We compete across a variety of businesses within the commercial real estate industry. In general, with respect to each of our businesses, we cannot give assurance that we will be able to continue to compete effectively or maintain our current fee arrangements or margin levels or that we will not encounter increased competition. Each of the services we provide to our clients is highly competitive on an international, national, regional and local level. Depending on the product or service, we face competition from, including, but not limited to, commercial real estate 13 Table of Contents service providers, private owners and developers, institutional lenders, insurance companies, investment banking firms, investment managers and accounting firms, some of whom are clients and many of whom may have greater financial resources than we do. In addition, future changes in laws and regulations could lead to the entry of other competitors. Many of our competitors are local, regional, national or international firms. Although some are substantially smaller than we are, some of these competitors are larger on a local, regional, national or international basis. We may face increased competition from even stronger competitors in the future due to a trend toward consolidation, especially in times of severe economic stress such as we are facing now. In recent years, there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in our industry. We are also subject to competition from other large national and multi-national firms as well as regional and local firms that have similar service competencies to ours. Our existing and future competitors may choose to undercut our fees, increase the levels of compensation they are willing to pay to their employees and either recruit our employees or cause us to increase our level of compensation necessary to retain our own employees or recruit new employees. These occurrences could cause our revenue to decrease or negatively impact our target ratio of compensation-to-operating revenue, both of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the event that we experience significant growth in the future, such growth may be difficult to sustain and may place significant demands on our administrative, operational and financial resources. In the event that we experience significant growth in the future, such growth could place additional demands on our resources and increase our expenses. Our future growth will depend, among other things, on our ability to successfully identify experienced transaction professionals to join our firm. It may take years for us to determine whether new transaction professionals will be profitable or effective. During that time, we may incur significant expenses and expend significant time and resources toward training, integration and business development. If we are unable to hire and retain profitable transaction professionals, we will not be able to implement our growth strategy, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Growth will also require us to commit additional management, operational and financial resources to maintain appropriate operational and financial systems to adequately support expansion. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our expanding operations effectively or that we will be able to maintain or accelerate our growth, and any failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and control our expenses which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, we may have to delay, alter or eliminate the implementation of certain aspects of our growth strategy due to events beyond our control, including, but not limited to, changes in general economic conditions and commercial real estate market conditions. Such delays or changes to our growth strategy may adversely affect our business. If we acquire companies or significant groups of personnel in the future, we may experience high transaction and integration costs, the integration process may be disruptive to our business and the acquired businesses and/or personnel may not perform as we expect. Future acquisitions of companies and/or people and any necessary related financings may involve significant transaction-related expenses. Transaction-related expenditures include severance costs, lease termination costs, transaction costs, deferred financing costs, possible regulatory costs and merger-related costs, among others. We may also experience difficulties in integrating operations and accounting systems acquired from other companies. These challenges include the diversion of management’s attention from the regular operations of our business and the potential loss of our key clients, our key associates or those of the acquired operations, each of which could harm our financial condition and results of operation. We believe that most acquisitions will initially have an adverse impact on revenues, expenses, operating income and net income. Acquisitions also frequently involve significant costs related to integrating information technology, accounting, reporting and management services and rationalizing personnel levels. If we are unable to fully integrate the accounting, reporting and other systems of the businesses we acquire, we may not be able to effectively manage them and our financial results may be materially affected. Moreover, the integration process itself may be disruptive to our business as it requires coordination of geographically diverse organizations and implementation of new accounting and information technology systems. 14 Table of Contents In addition, acquisitions of businesses involve risks that the businesses acquired will not perform in accordance with expectations that the expected synergies associated with acquisitions will not be achieved and that business judgments concerning the value, strengths and weaknesses of businesses acquired will prove incorrect, which could have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A failure to appropriately deal with actual or perceived conflicts of interest could adversely affect our businesses. Outside of our people, our reputation is one of our most important assets. As we have expanded the scope of our businesses, capital market platforms and our client base, we increasingly have to address potential, actual or perceived conflicts of interest relating to the capital markets services we provide to our existing and potential clients. For example, conflicts may arise between our position as an advisor to both the buyer and seller in commercial real estate sales transactions or in instances when a potential buyer requests that we represent it in securing the necessary capital to acquire an asset we are selling for another client or when a capital source takes an adverse action against an owner client that we are representing in another matter. In addition, certain of our employees hold interests in real property as well as invest in pools of funds outside of their capacity as our employees, and their individual interests could be perceived to or actually conflict with the interests of our clients. While we have attempted to adopt various policies, controls and procedures to address or limit actual or perceived conflicts, these policies and procedures may not be adequate or carry attendant costs and may not be adhered to by our employees. Appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult and our reputation could be damaged and cause us to lose existing clients or fail to gain new clients if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest, which could have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A majority of our revenue is derived from capital markets services transaction fees, which are not long-term contracted sources of revenue, are subject to external economic conditions and intense competition, and declines in those engagements could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We historically have earned over 90% of our revenue from capital markets services transaction fees. We expect that we will continue to rely heavily on capital markets services transaction fees for a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. A decline in our engagements or in the value of the commercial real estate we sell or finance could significantly decrease our capital markets services revenues which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we operate in a highly competitive environment, which is heavily reliant on a healthy economy and a functioning and fluid global capital market, where typically there are no long-term contracted sources of revenue; each revenue-generating engagement typically is separately awarded and negotiated on a transaction-by-transaction basis, and the inability to continue to be paid for services at the current levels or the loss of clients would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. Significant fluctuations in our revenues and net income may make it difficult for us to achieve steady earnings growth on a quarterly or an annual basis, which may make the comparison between periods difficult and may cause the price of our Class A common stock to decline. We have experienced and continue to experience significant fluctuations in revenues and net income as a result of many factors, including, but not limited to, economic conditions, capital market disruptions, the timing of transactions, the commencement and termination of contracts, revenue mix and the timing of additional selling, general and administrative expenses to support new business activities. We provide many of our services without written contracts or pursuant to contracts that are terminable at will. Consequently, many of our clients can terminate or significantly reduce their relationships with us on very short notice for any reason. We plan our capital and operating expenditures based on our expectations of future revenues and, if revenues are below expectations in any given quarter or year, we may be unable to adjust capital or operating expenditures in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall, which could have an immediate material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. 15 Table of Contents Our results of operation vary significantly among quarters during each calendar year, which makes comparisons of our quarterly results difficult. A significant portion of our revenue is typically seasonal. Historically, during normal economic and capital markets conditions, this seasonality has caused our revenue, operating income, net income and cash flows from operating activities to be lower in the first six months of the year and higher in the second half of the year. This variance among periods during each calendar year makes comparison between such periods difficult, and it also makes the comparison of the same periods during different calendar years difficult as well. However, given the recent and current disruptions facing all global capital markets, and in particular the U.S. commercial real estate markets, this historical pattern of seasonality may or may not continue. For example, while the seasonality described above did occur in 2009, it did not occur in 2007 or 2008. Our existing goodwill and other intangible assets could become impaired, which may require us to take significant non-cash charges. Under current accounting guidelines, we evaluate our goodwill and other intangible assets for potential impairment annually or more frequently if circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. As of December 31, 2009, our recorded goodwill was approximately $3.7 million and our other intangible assets, net, was $9.3 million. As of March 5, 2010, management’s analysis indicates that a greater than 70% decline in the Company’s estimated enterprise value may result in the recorded goodwill being potentially impaired and would require management to measure the amount of the impairment charge, which could result in a substantial impairment of our goodwill. Our intangible assets primarily include mortgage servicing rights under agreements with third party lenders and deferred financing costs. As of December 31, 2009, the fair value and net book value of the servicing rights were $10.5 million and $9.2 million, respectively. A 10%, 20% and 30% increase in the level of assumed prepayments would decrease the estimated fair value of the servicing rights at the stratum level by up to 1.9%, 3.7% and 5.5%, respectively. A 10%, 20% and 30% increase in cost of servicing of the servicing business would decrease the estimated fair value of the servicing rights at the stratum level by up to 19.3%, 38.7% and 58.0%, respectively. A 10%, 20% and 30% increase in the discount rate would decrease the estimated fair value of the servicing rights at the stratum level by up to 3.1%, 6.1% and 8.9%, respectively. For further detail, refer to the discussion under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies; Use of Estimates” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets would result in a one-time non-cash charge against earnings, which charge could materially adversely affect our reported results of operations and the market price of our Class A common stock in future periods. Our existing deferred tax assets may not be realizable, which may require us to take significant non-cash charges. The Company accounts for income taxes under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and for tax losses and tax credit carryforwards, if any. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates are recognized in income in the period of the tax rate change. In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, the Company considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Our effective tax rate is sensitive to several factors including changes in the mix of our geographic profitability. We evaluate our estimated tax rate on a quarterly basis to reflect changes in: (i) our geographic mix of income, (ii) legislative actions on statutory tax rates, and (iii) tax planning for jurisdictions affected by double taxation. We continually seek to develop and implement potential strategies and/or actions that would reduce our overall effective tax rate. The net deferred tax asset of $124.1 million at December 31, 2009 is comprised mainly of a $128.7 million deferred tax asset related to the a tax basis step-up election under Section 754 of the Internal Revenue Code made by 16 Table of Contents HFF, Inc. relating to the initial purchase of units of the Operating Partnerships in connection with the Reorganization Transactions and a tax basis step-up on subsequent exchanges of Operating Partnership units for shares of the Company’s Class A common stock since the date of the Reorganization Transactions, net of a $15.2 million valuation allowance. The net deferred tax asset related to the Section 754 election tax basis step up of $113.6 million represents annual tax deductions of approximately $17 million through 2022. In order to realize the annual benefit of approximately $17 million, the Company needs to generate approximately $175.0 million in revenue each year, assuming a constant cost structure. In the event that the Company cannot realize the annual benefit of $17 million each year, the shortfall becomes a net operating loss that can be carried back 3 years to offset prior years’ taxable income or carried forward 20 years to offset future taxable income. If it is more likely than not that the Company would not be able to generate a sufficient level of taxable income through the carryforward period, a valuation allowance would be recorded as a charge to income tax expense and a proportional reduction in the payable under the tax receivable agreement which would be recorded as income in the consolidated statements of income. Employee misconduct, which is difficult to detect and deter, could harm us by impairing our ability to attract and retain clients and subjecting us to significant legal liability and reputational harm. If our associates engage in misconduct, our business could be adversely affected. For example, our business often requires that we deal with confidential matters of great significance to our clients. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to deter and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. If our associates were improperly to use or disclose confidential information provided by our clients, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and suffer serious harm to our reputation, financial position and current client relationships and significantly impair our ability to attract future clients, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. Compliance failures and changes in regulation could result in an increase in our compliance costs or subject us to sanctions or litigation. A number of our services are subject to regulation by the SEC, FINRA and state real estate commissions and securities regulators. Our failure to comply or have complied with applicable laws or regulations could result in fines, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of the registration of us or any of our subsidiaries as a commercial real estate broker or broker-dealer. Even if a sanction imposed against us or our personnel is small in monetary amount, the adverse publicity arising from the imposition of sanctions against us by regulators could harm our reputation and cause us to lose existing clients or significantly impair our ability to gain new clients. Our broker-dealer operations are subject to periodic examination by the SEC and FINRA. FINRA may identify deficiencies in the procedures and practices of HFF Securities and may require HFF Securities to take remedial action. FINRA may also identify significant violations of law, rules or regulations, resulting in formal disciplinary action and the imposition of sanctions, including potentially the revocation of HFF Securities’ registration as a broker-dealer. We cannot predict the outcome of any such examinations or processes, and any negative regulatory action may have a significant and material adverse affect on our company. In addition, it is possible that the regulatory scrutiny of, and litigation in connection with conflicts of interest will make our clients less willing to enter into transactions in which such a conflict may occur, and significantly impair our ability to gain new clients, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. In addition, we may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations adopted by the SEC, other United States or state or local governmental regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial and commercial real estate markets as well as changes in administrations or enforcement priorities of any of these authorities or organizations. We could be adversely affected if the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 is not renewed beyond 2014, or is adversely amended, or if insurance for other natural or manmade disasters is interrupted or constrained. Our business could be adversely affected if the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002, or TRIA, is not renewed beyond 2014, or is adversely amended, or if insurance for other natural and manmade disasters is interrupted or constrained. In response to the tightening of supply in certain insurance and reinsurance markets resulting from, 17 Table of Contents among other things, the September 11, 2001 terrorist attack, the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 was enacted to ensure the availability of commercial insurance coverage for terrorist acts in the United States. This law established a federal assistance program through the end of 2005 to help the commercial property and casualty insurance industry cover claims related to future terrorism-related losses and required that coverage for terrorist acts be offered by insurers. Although TRIA was amended and extended through 2014, it is possible that TRIA will not be renewed beyond 2014, or could be adversely amended, which could adversely affect the commercial real estate markets and capital markets if a material subsequent event occurred. Lenders generally require owners of commercial real estate to maintain terrorism insurance. In the event TRIA is not renewed, terrorism insurance may become difficult or impossible to obtain. Natural disasters and the lack of commercially available wind damage and flood insurance could also have a negative impact on the acquisition, disposition and financing of the commercial properties in certain areas. Any of these events could result in a general decline in acquisition, disposition and financing activities, which could lead to a reduction in our fees for arranging such transactions as well as a reduction in our loan servicing activities due to increased delinquencies and lack of additional loans that we would have otherwise added to our portfolio, all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure Our only material asset is our units in the Operating Partnerships, and we are accordingly dependent upon distributions from the Operating Partnerships to pay our expenses, taxes and dividends (if and when declared by our board of directors). HFF, Inc. is a holding company and has no material assets other than its ownership of partnership units in the Operating Partnerships. HFF, Inc. has no independent means of generating revenue. We intend to cause the Operating Partnerships to make distributions to its partners in an amount sufficient to cover all expenses, applicable taxes payable and dividends, if any, declared by our board of directors. To the extent that HFF, Inc. needs funds, and the Operating Partnerships are restricted from making such distributions under applicable law or regulation or under any present or future debt covenants, or are otherwise unable to provide such funds, it could materially adversely affect our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operation. We will be required to pay HFF Holdings for most of the benefits relating to any additional tax depreciation or amortization deductions we may claim as a result of the tax basis step-up we receive, subsequent sales of our common stock and related transactions with HFF Holdings. As part of the Reorganization Transactions, approximately 45% of the partnership units in each of the Operating Partnerships (including partnership units in the Operating Partnerships held by Holliday GP) held by Holdings Sub, a wholly-owned subsidiary of HFF Holdings, were sold to HoldCo LLC, our wholly-owned subsidiary, for cash raised in the initial public offering. Beginning in February 2009, twenty-five percent partnership units in HFF LP and HFF Securities held by HFF Holdings became exchangeable by HFF Holdings for shares of our Class A common stock. In addition, members of HFF Holdings gained the right to exchange an additional twenty-five percent of the partnership units in the Operating Partnerships held by HFF Holdings for shares of Class A common stock in February 2010 and have the right to direct HFF Holdings to exchange an additional twenty-five percent of the partnership units in the Operating Partnerships held by the HFF Holdings for shares of our Class A common stock beginning in each of February 2011 and 2012. Through February 2010, 2,006,644 partnership units have been exchanged for shares of our Class A common stock. The initial sale and subsequent exchanges have resulted and are expected to result in increases in the tax basis of the assets of HFF LP and HFF Securities that would be allocated to HFF, Inc. These increases in tax basis would likely reduce the amount of tax that we would otherwise be required to pay in the future depending on the amount, character and timing of our taxable income, but there can be no assurances that such treatment will continue in the future. HFF, Inc. entered into a tax receivable agreement with HFF Holdings that provides for the payment by HFF, Inc. to HFF Holdings of 85% of the amount of cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax that we actually realize as a result of these increases in tax basis and as a result of certain other tax benefits arising from our entering into the tax receivable agreement and making payments under that agreement. For purposes of the tax receivable agreement, cash savings in income tax will be computed by comparing our actual income tax liability to 18 Table of Contents the amount of such taxes that we would have been required to pay had there been no increase to the tax basis of the assets of HFF LP and HFF Securities as a result of the initial sale and later exchanges and had we not entered into the tax receivable agreement. The term of the tax receivable agreement will continue until all such tax benefits have been utilized or expired, including the tax benefits derived from future exchanges. While the actual amount and timing of payments under the tax receivable agreement will depend upon a number of factors, including the amount and timing of taxable income we generate in the future, the value of our individual assets, the portion of our payments under the tax receivable agreement constituting imputed interest and increases in the tax basis of our assets resulting in payments to HFF Holdings, we expect that the payments that may be made to HFF Holdings will be substantial. Future payments to HFF Holdings in respect of subsequent exchanges would be in addition to these amounts and are expected to be substantial. The payments under the tax receivable agreement are not conditioned upon HFF Holdings’ or its affiliates’ continued ownership of us. We may need to incur debt to finance payments under the tax receivable agreement to the extent our cash resources are insufficient to meet our obligations under the tax receivable agreement as a result of timing discrepancies or otherwise. In addition, although we are not aware of any issue that would cause the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, to challenge the tax basis increases or other benefits arising under the tax receivable agreement, HFF Holdings will not reimburse us for any payments previously made if such basis increases or other benefits were later not allowed. As a result, in such circumstances we could make payments to HFF Holdings under the tax receivable agreement in excess of our actual cash tax savings. If HFF, Inc. was deemed an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940 as a result of its ownership of the Operating Partnerships, applicable restrictions could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and could have a material adverse effect on our business. If HFF, Inc. were to cease participation in the management of the Operating Partnerships, its interest in the Operating Partnerships could be deemed an “investment security” for purposes of the Investment Company Act of 1940, or the 1940 Act. Generally, a person is deemed to be an “investment company” if it owns investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis, absent an applicable exemption. HFF, Inc. has no material assets other than its equity interest in the Operating Partnerships and Holliday GP. A determination that this interest was an investment security could result in HFF, Inc. being an investment company under the 1940 Act and becoming subject to the registration and other requirements of the Investment Company Act. HFF, Inc. will not be deemed an investment company because it will manage the Operating Partnerships through its wholly owned subsidiary, Holliday GP. Holliday GP is the sole general partner of each of the Operating Partnerships. The 1940 Act and the rules thereunder contain detailed parameters for the organization and operations of investment companies. Among other things, the 1940 Act and the rules thereunder limit or prohibit transactions with affiliates, impose limitations on the issuance of debt and equity securities, prohibit the issuance of stock options, and impose certain governance requirements. We intend to conduct our operations so that HFF, Inc. will not be deemed to be an investment company under the 1940 Act. However, if anything were to happen which would cause HFF, Inc. to be deemed to be an investment company under the 1940 Act, we could, among other things, be required to substantially change the manner in which we conduct our operations either to avoid being required to register as an investment company or to register as an investment company. If we were required to register as an investment company under the 1940 Act, we would be subject to substantial regulation with respect to, among other things, our capital structure (including our ability to use leverage), management, operations, ability to transact business with affiliated persons as defined in the 1940 Act (including our subsidiaries), portfolio composition (including restrictions with respect to diversification and industry concentrations) and ability to compensate key employees. These restrictions and limitations could make it impractical for us to continue our business as currently conducted, impair our agreements and arrangements and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock Ownership by HFF Holdings of substantial voting power in HFF, Inc. may give rise to conflicts of interests and may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions. Our certificate of incorporation provides that the holders of our Class B common stock (other than HFF, Inc. or any of its subsidiaries) will be entitled to a number of votes that is equal to the total number of shares of Class A common stock for which the partnership units that HFF Holdings holds in the Operating Partnerships are exchangeable. At March 1, 2010, after giving effect of the exchange rights transactions through February 26, 2010, HFF Holdings had approximately 49.9% of the voting power in HFF, Inc. In addition, certain members of HFF Holdings hold shares of our Class A common stock in their individual capacities. As a result, and in combination with the fact that our certificate of incorporation does not provide for cumulative voting, HFF Holdings has the ability to exert significant influence in the election of the members of our board of directors and thereby the control of our management and affairs, including determinations with respect to acquisitions, dispositions, borrowings, issuances of common stock or other securities, and the declaration and payment of dividends. In addition, HFF Holdings will be able to significantly influence the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval, including a change of control of our company or a change in the composition of our board of directors and could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of our company. We cannot assure you that the interests of HFF Holdings and its members will not conflict with your interests. The concentration of ownership could deprive our Class A stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our Class A common stock. As a result of the control exercised by HFF Holdings over us, we cannot assure you that we would not have received more favorable terms from an unaffiliated party in our agreements with HFF Holdings. In addition, the HFF LP and HFF Securities Profit Participation Bonus Plans may only be amended or terminated with the written approval of all of the limited partners and general partners of each Operating Partnership. Accordingly, so long as HFF Holdings continues to hold any partnership units in the Operating Partnerships, the consent of HFF Holdings will required to amend or terminate these plans. This could prevent our board of directors or management from amending or terminating these plans. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report financial results or prevent fraud. Effective internal controls are necessary to provide reliable financial reports and to assist in the effective prevention of fraud. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud could harm our business. We must annually evaluate our internal procedures to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires management and auditors to assess the effectiveness of internal controls. If we fail to remedy or maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties or shareholder litigation. In addition, failure to maintain adequate internal controls could result in financial statements that do not accurately reflect our financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to complete the work necessary to fully comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or that our management and external auditors will continue to conclude that our internal controls are effective. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade our company or our sector, the price of our Class A common stock could decline. The trading market for our Class A common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We do not control these analysts, not can we assure that any analysts will continue to follow us and issue research reports. Furthermore, if one or more of the analysts who do cover us downgrades our company or our industry, or the stock of any of our competitors, the price of our Class A common stock could decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause the price of our Class A common stock to decline. 20 Table of Contents Our share price may decline due to the large number of shares eligible for future sale and for exchange. The market price of our Class A common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of Class A common stock in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. At March 1, 2010, HFF Holdings owns 18,348,356 partnership units, or approximately 49.9%, in each of the Operating Partnerships. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation will allow the exchange of partnership units in the Operating Partnerships (other than those held by us) for shares of our Class A common stock on the basis of two partnership units (one in each Operating Partnership) for one share of Class A common stock, subject to customary conversion rate adjustments for stock splits, stock dividends and reclassifications. Pursuant to contractual provisions and subject to certain exceptions, HFF Holdings was restricted from exchanging partnership units for Class A common stock until January 2009. After that time, HFF Holdings gained the right to exchange 25% of its partnership units, with an additional 25% becoming available for exchange each year thereafter. However, these contractual provisions may be waived, amended or terminated by the members of Holdings LLC following consultation with our Board of Directors. During 2009, HFF Holdings exchanged 644,402 partnership units for 644,402 shares of our Class A common stock. Additionally, during the first two months of 2010, HFF Holdings exchanged another 1,362,242 partnership units for 1,362,242 shares of our Class A common stock. The market price of our Class A common stock may continue to be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline or subject us to litigation. Our stock price is affected by a number of factors, including quarterly and annual variations in our results and those of our competitors; changes to the competitive landscape; estimates and projections by the investment community; the arrival or departure of key personnel, especially the retirement or departure of key senior transaction professionals and management, including members of HFF Holdings; the introduction of new services by us or our competitors; and acquisitions, strategic alliances or joint ventures involving us or our competitors. Securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations as has been the case in the past, including 2007, 2008 and 2009. This market volatility, as well as general global and domestic economic, credit and liquidity issues, market or political conditions, has reduced and may continue to reduce the market price of our Class A common stock. In addition, our operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, and in response, the market price of our Class A common stock could decrease significantly. When the market price of a company’s common stock drops significantly, stockholders sometimes institute securities class action lawsuits against the company. A securities class action lawsuit against us could cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of our management and other resources from our business. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable by permitting our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock, requiring advance notice for stockholder proposals and nominations, providing for a classified board of directors, providing for super-majority votes of stockholders for the amendment of the bylaws and certificate of incorporation, and placing limitations on convening stockholder meetings and not permitting written consents of stockholders. In addition, we are subject to provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law that restrict certain business combinations with interested stockholders. These provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control, which could harm the market price of our Class A common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 21 Table of Contents 