Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the following risk factors and the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before making any investment decisions regarding our securities. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. As a result, the trading price of our securities could decline and you may lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business General economic conditions and commercial real estate market conditions, both globally and domestically, can have a negative impact on our business. We have experienced in past years, and expect in the future to be negatively impacted by, periods of economic slowdowns, recessions and disruptions in the capital markets, including international, national, regional and local markets, and corresponding declines in the demand for commercial real estate and related services, within one or more of the markets in which we operate. Historically, commercial real estate markets, and in particular the U.S. commercial real estate market, have tended to be cyclical and related to the condition of the economy as a whole and to the perceptions of the market participants as to the relevant economic outlook. Negative economic conditions, changes in interest rates, disruptions in capital markets and declines in the demand for commercial real estate and related services in international or domestic markets or in significant markets in which we do business could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition, including as a result of the following factors. For example: • Slowdowns in economic activity could cause tenant demand for space to decline, which would adversely affect the operation and income of commercial real estate properties and thereby affect investor demand and the supply of capital for debt and equity investments in commercial real estate. • Declines in the regional or local demand for commercial real estate, or significant disruptions in other segments of the real estate market, could adversely affect our results of operations. During 2006, approximately 21.0%, 8.4%, 10.8% and 8.4% of our capital markets services revenues was derived from transactions involving commercial real estate located in Texas, California, Florida and the region consisting of the District of Columbia, Maryland and Virginia, respectively. As a result, a significant portion of our business is dependent on the economic conditions in general and the markets for commercial real estate in these areas, which, like other commercial real estate markets, have experienced price volatility or economic downturns in the past. • Significant fluctuations in interest rates as well as steady and protracted increases or decreases of interest rates could adversely affect the operation and income of commercial real estate properties as well as the demand from investors for commercial real estate investments. Both of these events could adversely affect investor demand and the supply of capital for debt and equity investments in commercial real estate. In particular, increased interest rates may reduce the number of acquisitions, dispositions and loan originations, as well as the respective transaction volumes, which could also adversely affect our servicing revenue. All of the above could cause prices to decrease due to the reduced amount of financing available as well as the increased cost of obtaining financing and could lead to a decrease in purchase and sale activity. • Significant disruptions or changes in capital market flows, regardless of their duration, could adversely affect the supply and/or demand for capital from investors for commercial real estate investments. In particular, while commercial real estate is now viewed as an accepted asset class for portfolio diversification, if this perception changes there could be a significant reduction in the amount of debt and equity capital available in the commercial real estate sector. These and other types of events could lead to a general decline in transaction activity, which would likely lead to a reduction in fees and commissions relating to such transactions, as well as a significant reduction in our loan 9 Table of Contents servicing activities as a result of increased delinquencies and the lack of additional loans that we would have otherwise added to our servicing portfolio. These effects would likely cause us to realize lower revenues from our transaction service fees, including debt placement fees and investment sales commissions, which fees usually are tied to the transaction value and are payable upon the successful completion of a particular transaction, and from our loan servicing revenues due to reduced financing and refinancing transactions as well as higher delinquencies. If we are unable to retain and attract qualified and experienced transaction professionals and associates, our growth may be limited and our business and operating results could suffer. Our most important asset is our people, and our continued success is highly dependent upon the efforts of our transaction professionals and other associates, including our analysts and production coordinators as well as our key servicing and company overhead support associates. Our transaction professionals generate a significant majority of our revenues. If any of these key transaction professionals or other important associates leave, or if we lose a significant number of transaction professionals, or if we are unable to attract other qualified transaction professionals, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. We have experienced in the past, and expect to experience in the future, the negative impact of the inability to retain and attract associates, analysts and experienced transaction professionals. Additionally, such events may have a disproportionate adverse effect to our operations if they occur in geographic areas where substantial amounts of our capital markets services revenues are generated. As part of our transformation to a public company, we may also face additional retention pressures as a result of reductions in distributions from HFF Holdings to approximately 40 of our most valuable transaction professionals who are the members of HFF Holdings. Following the termination of their employment contracts and expiration of their lock-ups, we may not be able to retain these members of HFF Holdings. Even if we are able to retain them, we may not be able to retain them at compensation levels that will allow us to achieve our target ratio of compensation expense-to-operating revenue. We intend to use a combination of cash compensation, equity, equity-based incentives and other employee benefits rather than solely cash compensation to motivate and retain our transaction professionals. Our compensation mechanisms as a public company may not be effective, especially if the market price of our Class A common stock declines. In addition, our competitors may attempt to recruit our transaction professionals. The employment arrangements, non-competition agreements and retention agreements we have entered into with respect to the members of HFF Holdings or may enter into with our key associates may not prevent our transaction professionals and other key associates from resigning or competing against us. Any such arrangements and agreements will expire after a certain period of time, at which point each such person would be free to compete against us and solicit our clients and employees. A significant component of our growth has also occurred through the recruiting and hiring of key experienced transaction professionals. Any future growth through recruiting these professionals will be partially dependent upon the continued availability of attractive candidates fitting the culture of our firm at advantageous terms and conditions. However, individuals whom we would like to hire may not be available upon advantageous terms and conditions. In addition, the hiring of new personnel involve risks that the persons acquired will not perform in accordance with expectations and that business judgments concerning the value, strengths and weaknesses of persons acquired will prove incorrect. Our business could be hurt if we are unable to retain our business philosophy and partnership culture as a result of becoming a public company, and efforts to retain our philosophy and culture could adversely affect our ability to maintain and grow our business. We are deeply committed to maintaining the philosophy and culture which we have built. Our Mission and Vision Statement defines our business philosophy as well as the emphasis that we place on our clients, our people and our culture. We seek to reinforce to each of our associates our commitment to our clients, our culture and values by sharing with everyone in the firm what is expected from each of them. We strive to maintain a work environment that reinforces our owner-operator culture and the collaboration, motivation, alignment of interests and sense of ownership and reward associates based on their value-added performance who adhere to this culture. Our status as a public company, including potential changes in our compensation structure, could adversely affect this culture. If we do not continue to develop and implement the right processes and tools to manage our changing enterprise and 10 Table of Contents maintain this culture, our ability to compete successfully and achieve our business objectives could be impaired, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in an effort to preserve our strong partnership culture, our process for hiring new transaction professionals is lengthy and highly selective. In the past, we have interviewed a significant number of individuals for each transaction professional that we hired, and we have in the past and may in the future subordinate our growth plans to our objective of hiring transaction professionals whom we think will adhere to and contribute to our culture. Our ability to maintain and grow our business could suffer if we are not able to identify, hire and retain new transaction professionals meeting our high standards, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have numerous significant competitors and potential future competitors, some of which may have greater resources than we do, and we may not be able to continue to compete effectively. We compete across a variety of businesses within the commercial real estate industry. In general, with respect to each of our businesses, we cannot give assurance that we will be able to continue to compete effectively or maintain our current fee arrangements or margin levels or that we will not encounter increased competition. Each of the services we provide to our clients is highly competitive on an international, national, regional and local level. Depending on the product or service, we face competition from, including but not limited to, commercial real estate service providers, private owners and developers, institutional lenders, insurance companies, investment banking firms and investment managers, some of whom are clients and many of whom may have greater financial resources than we do. In addition, future changes in laws and regulations could lead to the entry of other competitors. Many of our competitors are local, regional, national or international firms. Although some are substantially smaller than we are, some of these competitors are larger on a local, regional, national or international basis. We may face increased competition from even stronger competitors in the future due to a trend toward consolidation. In recent years, there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in our industry. We are also subject to competition from other large national and multi-national firms as well as regional and local firms that have similar service competencies to ours. Our existing and future competitors may choose to undercut our fees, increase the levels of compensation they are willing to pay to their employees and either recruit our employees or cause us to increase our level of compensation necessary to retain our own employees or recruit new employees. These occurrences could cause our revenue to decrease or negatively impact our target ratio of compensation-to-operating revenue, both of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could be adversely affected if the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 is not renewed beyond 2007, or is adversely amended, or if insurance for other natural or manmade disasters is interrupted or constrained. Our business could be adversely affected if the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002, or TRIA, is not renewed beyond 2007, or is adversely amended, or if insurance for other natural and manmade disasters is interrupted or constrained. In response to the tightening of supply in certain insurance and reinsurance markets resulting from, among other things, the September 11, 2001 terrorist attack, the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 was enacted to ensure the availability of commercial insurance coverage for terrorist acts in the United States. This law established a federal assistance program through the end of 2005 to help the commercial property and casualty insurance industry cover claims related to future terrorism-related losses and required that coverage for terrorist acts be offered by insurers. Although TRIA recently has been amended and extended through 2007, it is possible that TRIA will not be renewed beyond 2007, or could be adversely amended, which could adversely affect the commercial real estate markets and capital markets if a material subsequent event occurred. Lenders generally require owners of commercial real estate to maintain terrorism insurance. In the event TRIA is not renewed, terrorism insurance may become difficult or impossible to obtain. Natural disasters such as Katrina and the lack of commercially available wind damage and flood insurance could also have a negative impact on the acquisition, disposition and financing of the commercial properties in certain areas. Any of these events could result in a general decline in acquisition, disposition and financing activities, which could lead to a reduction in our fees for arranging such transactions as well as a reduction in our loan servicing activities due to increased delinquencies and lack of additional loans that we would have otherwise added to our portfolio, all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. 11 Table of Contents We have experienced significant growth over the past several years, which may be difficult to sustain and which may place significant demands on our administrative, operational and financial resources. We expect our significant growth to continue, which could place additional demands on our resources and increase our expenses. Our future growth will depend, among other things, on our ability to successfully identify experienced transaction professionals to join our firm. It may take years for us to determine whether new transaction professionals will be profitable or effective. During that time, we may incur significant expenses and expend significant time and resources toward training, integration and business development. If we are unable to hire and retain profitable transaction professionals, we will not be able to implement our growth strategy, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Sustaining our growth will also require us to commit additional management, operational and financial resources to maintain appropriate operational and financial systems to adequately support expansion. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our expanding operations effectively or that we will be able to maintain or accelerate our growth, and any failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and control our expenses which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we acquire companies in the future, we may experience high transaction and integration costs, the integration process may be disruptive to our business and the acquired businesses may not perform as we expect. Future acquisitions and any necessary related financings may involve significant transaction-related expenses. Transaction-related expenditures include severance costs, lease termination costs, transaction costs, deferred financing costs, possible regulatory costs and merger-related costs, among others. We may also experience difficulties in integrating operations and accounting systems acquired from other companies. These challenges include the diversion of management’s attention from the regular operations of our business and the potential loss of our key clients, our key associates or those of the acquired operations, each of which could harm our financial condition and results of operation. We believe that most acquisitions will initially have an adverse impact on revenues, expenses, operating income and net income. Acquisitions also frequently involve significant costs related to integrating information technology, accounting, reporting and management services and rationalizing personnel levels. If we are unable to fully integrate the accounting, reporting and other systems of the businesses we acquire, we may not be able to effectively manage them and our financial results may be materially affected. Moreover, the integration process itself may be disruptive to our business as it requires coordination of geographically diverse organizations and implementation of new accounting and information technology systems. In addition, acquisitions of businesses involve risks that the businesses acquired will not perform in accordance with expectations, that the expected synergies associated with acquisitions will not be achieved and that business judgments concerning the value, strengths and weaknesses of businesses acquired will prove incorrect, which could have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A failure to appropriately deal with actual or perceived conflicts of interest could adversely affect our businesses. Outside of our people, our reputation is one of our most important assets. As we have expanded the scope of our businesses and our client base, we increasingly have to address potential actual or perceived conflicts of interest relating to the capital markets services we provide to our existing and potential clients. For example, conflicts may arise between our position as an advisor to both the buyer and seller in commercial real estate sales transactions or in instances when a potential buyer requests that we represent it in securing the necessary capital to acquire an asset we are selling for another client. In addition, certain of our employees hold interests in real property as well as invest in pools of funds outside of their capacity as our employees, and their individual interests could be perceived to or actually conflict with the interests of our clients. While we have attempted to adopt various policies, controls and procedures to address or limit actual or perceived conflicts, these policies and procedures may not be adequate or carry attendant costs and may not be adhered to by our employees. Appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult and our reputation could be damaged and cause us to lose existing clients or fail to gain new clients if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest, which could have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents A majority of our revenue is derived from capital markets services transaction fees, which are not long-term contracted sources of revenue and are subject to intense competition, and declines in those engagements could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We historically have earned over 90% of our revenue from capital markets services transaction fees. We expect that we will continue to rely heavily on capital markets services transaction fees for a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. A decline in our engagements or in the value of the commercial real estate we sell or finance could significantly decrease our capital markets services revenues which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we operate in a highly competitive environment where typically there are no long-term contracted sources of revenue; each revenue-generating engagement typically is separately awarded and negotiated on a transaction-by-transaction basis, and the inability to continue to be paid for services at the current levels or the loss of clients would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. Additional indebtedness may make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures. We may require additional financing to fund our on-going capital needs as well as to fund our working capital needs. Any additional indebtedness that we incur will make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures. The level of our indebtedness could have important consequences, including: • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations will be dedicated to debt service and may not be available for other purposes; • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • obtaining financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes, including acquisitions, and may impede our ability to secure favorable lease terms; • making us more vulnerable to economic downturns and may limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures; • making it more difficult to continue to fund our strategic growth initiatives and retain and attract key individuals; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors with less debt and greater financial resources. Our future cash flow may not be sufficient to meet our obligations and commitments. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our indebtedness and to meet our other commitments, we will be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as refinancing or restructuring our indebtedness, selling material assets, operations or seeking to raise additional debt or equity capital or terminating significant numbers of key associates. These actions may not be effected on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms or at all, and these actions may not enable us to continue to satisfy our capital requirements. As a result, we may not be able to maintain or accelerate our growth, and any failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and control our expenses, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Significant fluctuations in our revenues and net income may make it difficult for us to achieve steady earnings growth on a quarterly or an annual basis, which may make the comparison between periods difficult and may cause the price of our Class A common stock to decline. We have experienced and continue to experience significant fluctuations in revenues and net income as a result of many factors, including the timing of transactions, the commencement and termination of contracts, revenue mix and the timing of additional selling, general and administrative expenses to support new business activities. We provide many of our services without written contracts or pursuant to contracts that are terminable at will. 13 Table of Contents Consequently, many of our clients can terminate or significantly reduce their relationships with us on very short notice for any reason. We plan our capital and operating expenditures based on our expectations of future revenues and, if revenues are below expectations in any given quarter or year, we may be unable to adjust capital or operating expenditures in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall, which could have an immediate material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Our results of operation vary significantly among quarters during each calendar year, which makes comparisons of our quarterly results difficult. A significant portion of our revenue is seasonal. Historically, this seasonality has caused our revenue, operating income, net income and cash flows from operating activities to be lower in the first six months of the year and higher in the second half of the year. This variance among periods during each calendar year makes comparison between such periods difficult, and it also makes the comparison of the same periods during different calendar years difficult as well. Employee misconduct, which is difficult to detect and deter, could harm us by impairing our ability to attract and retain clients and subjecting us to significant legal liability and reputational harm. If our associates engage in misconduct, our business could be adversely affected. For example, our business often requires that we deal with confidential matters of great significance to our clients. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to deter and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. If our associates were improperly to use or disclose confidential information provided by our clients, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and suffer serious harm to our reputation, financial position and current client relationships and significantly impair our ability to attract future clients, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. Compliance failures and changes in regulation could result in an increase in our compliance costs or subject us to sanctions or litigation. A number of our services are subject to regulation, including by the Securities and Exchange Commission, National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (the “NASD”) and state real estate commissions and securities regulators. Our failure to comply or have complied with applicable laws or regulations could result in fines, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of the registration of us or any of our subsidiaries as a commercial real estate broker or broker-dealer. Even if a sanction imposed against us or our personnel is small in monetary amount, the adverse publicity arising from the imposition of sanctions against us by regulators could harm our reputation and cause us to lose existing clients or significantly impair our ability to gain new clients. Our broker-dealer operations are subject to periodic examination by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the NASD. Because the Reorganization Transactions resulted in HFF, Inc. acquiring a greater than 25% equity interest in HFF Securities, a registered broker-dealer, HFF Securities filed an application with the NASD for approval of the change of control that was deemed to result from such transactions. As a result, HFF Securities complied with the NASD requirements to provide advance notice of, and apply for approval of, the deemed change of control and was permitted under the rules of the NASD to complete the Reorganization Transactions. However, in connection with the application for a change of control, the NASD may identify deficiencies in the procedures and practices of HFF Securities and may require HFF Securities to take remedial action. The NASD may also identify significant violations of law, rules or regulations, resulting in formal disciplinary action and the imposition of sanctions, including potentially the revocation of HFF Securities’ registration as a broker-dealer. We cannot predict the outcome of any such examinations or processes, and any negative regulatory action may have a significant and material adverse affect on our company. In addition, it is possible that the regulatory scrutiny of, and litigation in connection with, conflicts of interest will make our clients less willing to enter into transactions in which such a conflict may occur, and will adversely affect our businesses as well as significantly impair our ability to gain new clients, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. In addition, we may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission, other United States or state or local governmental regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial and commercial real estate markets. 14 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure Our only material asset is our units in the Operating Partnerships, and we are accordingly dependent upon distributions from the Operating Partnerships to pay our expenses, taxes and dividends (if and when declared by our board of directors). HFF, Inc. is a holding company and has no material assets other than its ownership of partnership units in the Operating Partnerships. HFF, Inc. has no independent means of generating revenue. We intend to cause the Operating Partnerships to make distributions to its partners in an amount sufficient to cover all expenses, applicable taxes payable and dividends, if any, declared by our board of directors. To the extent that HFF, Inc. needs funds, and the Operating Partnerships are restricted from making such distributions under applicable law or regulation or under any present or future debt covenants, or are otherwise unable to provide such funds, it could materially adversely affect our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operation. We will be required to pay HFF Holdings for most of the benefits relating to any additional tax depreciation or amortization deductions we may claim as a result of the tax basis step-up we receive, subsequent sales of our common stock and related transactions with HFF Holdings. As part of the Reorganization Transactions, approximately 45% of the partnership units in each of the Operating Partnerships (including partnership units in the Operating Partnerships held by Holliday GP) held by Holdings Sub, a wholly-owned subsidiary of HFF Holdings, were sold to HoldCo LLC, our wholly-owned subsidiary, for cash raised in the initial public offering. In the future, partnership units in HFF LP and HFF Securities held by HFF Holdings may be exchanged by HFF Holdings for shares of our Class A common stock. The initial sale and subsequent exchanges are expected to result in increases in the tax basis of the assets of HFF LP and HFF Securities that would be allocated to HFF, Inc. These increases in tax basis would likely reduce the amount of tax that we would otherwise be required to pay in the future depending on the amount, character and timing of our taxable income, but there can be no assurances that such treatment will continue in the future. HFF, Inc. entered into a tax receivable agreement with HFF Holdings that provides for the payment by HFF, Inc. to HFF Holdings of 85% of the amount of cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax that we actually realize as a result of these increases in tax basis and as a result of certain other tax benefits arising from our entering into the tax receivable agreement and making payments under that agreement. For purposes of the tax receivable agreement, cash savings in income tax will be computed by comparing our actual income tax liability to the amount of such taxes that we would have been required to pay had there been no increase to the tax basis of the assets of HFF LP and HFF Securities as a result of the initial sale and later exchanges and had we not entered into the tax receivable agreement. The term of the tax receivable agreement will continue until all such tax benefits have been utilized or expired, including the tax benefits derived from future exchanges. While the actual amount and timing of payments under the tax receivable agreement will depend upon a number of factors, including the amount and timing of taxable income we generate in the future, the value of our individual assets, the portion of our payments under the tax receivable agreement constituting imputed interest and increases in the tax basis of our assets resulting in payments to HFF Holdings, we expect that the payments that may be made to HFF Holdings will be substantial. Future payments to HFF Holdings in respect of subsequent exchanges would be in addition to these amounts and are expected to be substantial. The payments under the tax receivable agreement are not conditioned upon HFF Holdings’ or its affiliates’ continued ownership of us. We may need to incur debt to finance payments under the tax receivable agreement to the extent our cash resources are insufficient to meet our obligations under the tax receivable agreement as a result of timing discrepancies or otherwise. In addition, although we are not aware of any issue that would cause the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, to challenge the tax basis increases or other benefits arising under the tax receivable agreement, HFF Holdings will not reimburse us for any payments previously made if such basis increases or other benefits were later not allowed. As a result, in such circumstances we could make payments to HFF Holdings under the tax receivable agreement in excess of our actual cash tax savings. 15 Table of Contents If HFF, Inc. was deemed an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940 as a result of its ownership of the Operating Partnerships, applicable restrictions could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and could have a material adverse effect on our business. If HFF, Inc. were to cease participation in the management of the Operating Partnerships, its interest in the Operating Partnerships could be deemed an “investment security” for purposes of the Investment Company Act. Generally, a person is deemed to be an “investment company” if it owns investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis, absent an applicable exemption. HFF, Inc. has no material assets other than its equity interest in the Operating Partnerships and Holliday GP. A determination that this interest was an investment security could result in HFF, Inc. being an investment company under the Investment Company Act and becoming subject to the registration and other requirements of the Investment Company Act. HFF, Inc. will not be deemed an investment company because it will manage the Operating Partnerships through its wholly owned subsidiary, Holliday GP. Holliday GP is the sole general partner of each of the Operating Partnerships. The 1940 Act and the rules thereunder contain detailed parameters for the organization and operations of investment companies. Among other things, the 1940 Act and the rules thereunder limit or prohibit transactions with affiliates, impose limitations on the issuance of debt and equity securities, prohibit the issuance of stock options, and impose certain governance requirements. We intend to conduct our operations so that HFF, Inc. will not be deemed to be an investment company under the 1940 Act. However, if anything were to happen which would cause HFF, Inc. to be deemed to be an investment company under the 1940 Act, we could, among other things, be required to substantially change the manner in which we conduct our operations either to avoid being required to register as an investment company or to register as an investment company. If we were required to register as an investment company under the 1940 Act, we would be subject to substantial regulation with respect to, among other things, our capital structure (including our ability to use leverage), management, operations, ability to transact business with affiliated persons as defined in the 1940 Act (including our subsidiaries), portfolio composition (including restrictions with respect to diversification and industry concentrations) and ability to compensate key employees. These restrictions and limitations could make it impractical for us to continue our business as currently conducted, impair our agreements and arrangements and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock Control by HFF Holdings of the voting power in HFF, Inc. may give rise to conflicts of interests and may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions. Our certificate of incorporation provides that the holders of our Class B common stock (other than HFF, Inc. or any of its subsidiaries) will be entitled to a number of votes that is equal to the total number of shares of Class A common stock for which the partnership units that HFF Holdings holds in the Operating Partnerships are exchangeable. HFF Holdings currently has approximately 55% of the voting power in HFF, Inc. As a result, because HFF Holdings will have a majority of the voting power in HFF, Inc. and our certificate of incorporation does not provide for cumulative voting, HFF Holdings has the ability to elect all of the members of our board of directors and thereby to control our management and affairs, including determinations with respect to acquisitions, dispositions, borrowings, issuances of common stock or other securities, and the declaration and payment of dividends. In addition, HFF Holdings will be able to determine the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval and will be able to cause or prevent a change of control of our company or a change in the composition of our board of directors and could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of our company. We cannot assure you that the interests of HFF Holdings and its members will not conflict with your interests. The concentration of ownership could deprive our Class A stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our Class A common stock. As a result of the control exercised by HFF Holdings over us, we cannot assure you that we would not have received more favorable terms from an unaffiliated party in our agreements with HFF Holdings. In addition, the HFF LP and HFF Securities Profit Participation Bonus Plans may only be amended or terminated with the written approval of all of the limited partners and general partners of each Operating Partnership. Accordingly, so long as HFF Holdings continues to hold any partnership units in the Operating 16 Table of Contents Partnerships, the consent of HFF Holdings will required to amend or terminate these plans. This could prevent our board of directors or management from amending or terminating these plans. Transformation into a public company may increase our costs and disrupt the regular operations of our business. Our business has historically operated as a privately-owned company, and we expect to incur significant additional legal, accounting, reporting and other expenses as a result of having publicly traded common stock. We will also incur costs which we have not previously incurred, including, but not limited to, costs and expenses for directors fees, increased directors and officers insurance, investor relations fees, expenses for compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and new rules implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange, and various other costs of a public company. On an annual basis, we estimate that we will incur costs of more than $3 million per year as a result of becoming a publicly-traded company. Since we have not operated as a public company before, there can be no assurance that this estimate is accurate and our actual costs may be significantly higher. We also anticipate that we will incur costs associated with recently adopted corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and the NYSE. We expect these rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some management and corporate governance activities more time-consuming and costly. These rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage, and therefore could have an adverse impact on our ability to recruit and bring on a qualified independent board. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur as a result of these requirements or the timing of such costs. The individuals who now constitute our management have never had responsibility for managing a publicly-traded company, and we may experience difficulty attracting and retaining qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. The additional demands associated with being a public company may disrupt regular operations of our business by diverting attention of some of our most active senior transaction professionals away from revenue producing activities to management and administrative oversight, adversely affecting our ability to attract and complete business opportunities with clients and increasing difficulty in retaining transaction professionals and managing and growing our businesses, the occurrence of any of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our internal controls over financial reporting may not be effective and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to certify as to their effectiveness, which could have a significant and adverse effect on our business and reputation. We will evaluate our internal controls over financial reporting in order to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, and rules and regulations of the SEC thereunder, which we refer to as “Section 404.” The process of documenting and testing our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing these assessments. During the course of our testing, we may identify deficiencies which we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. In addition, if we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and any remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to certify as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. As a result, there could be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. In addition, we may be required to incur costs in improving our internal control system and the hiring of additional personnel. Any such action could harm our reputation and cause us to lose existing clients or fail to gain new clients and otherwise 17 Table of Contents negatively affect our results of operations. While our management has not identified any material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting at December 31, 2006, management has identified significant deficiencies involving, among other things, the documentation of and adherence to certain accounting policy and financial reporting matters and management and governance of information systems, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations if not remediated timely. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade our company or our sector, the price of our Class A common stock could decline. The trading market for our Class A common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We do not control these analysts. Furthermore, if one or more of the analysts who do cover us downgrades our company or our industry, or the stock of any of our competitors, the price of our Class A common stock could decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause the price of our Class A common stock to decline. Our share price may decline due to the large number of shares eligible for future sale and for exchange. The market price of our Class A common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of Class A common stock in the market after the offering or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. We have agreed with the underwriters not to dispose of or hedge any of our Class A common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of our Class A common stock, subject to specified exceptions, until 180 days after the date of the prospectus used in connection with our initial public offering, except with the prior written consent of the underwriters. Subject to these agreements, we may issue and sell in the future additional shares of Class A common stock. In addition, HFF Holdings owns 20,355,000 partnership units in each of the Operating Partnerships. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation will allow the exchange of partnership units in the Operating Partnerships (other than those held by us) for shares of our Class A common stock on the basis of two partnership units (one in each Operating Partnership) for one share of Class A common stock, subject to customary conversion rate adjustments for stock splits, stock dividends and reclassifications. HFF Holdings has agreed with the underwriters not to dispose of or hedge any of our Class A common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of our Class A common stock (including partnership units in the Operating Partnerships), subject to specified exceptions, until 180 days after the date of the prospectus used in connection with our initial public offering,, except with the prior written consent of the underwriters. After the expiration of the 180-day lock-up period, the shares of Class A common stock issuable upon exchange of the partnership units in the Operating Partnerships will be eligible for resale from time to time, subject to certain contractual and Securities Act restrictions. Pursuant to contractual provisions and subject to certain exceptions, HFF Holdings will be restricted from exchanging partnership units for Class A common stock for two years. After two years, HFF Holdings will have the right to exchange 25% of its partnership units, with an additional 25% becoming available for exchange each year thereafter. However, these contractual provisions may be waived, amended or terminated by the members of Holdings LLC following consultation with our Board of Directors. HFF Holdings has entered into a registration rights agreement with us. Under that agreement, after the expiration of the 180-day lock-up period, HFF Holdings will have the ability to cause us to register the shares of our Class A common stock it could acquire upon exchange of its partnership units in the Operating Partnerships. The market price of our Class A common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline or subject us to litigation. Our stock price will be affected by a number of factors, including quarterly and annual variations in our results and those of our competitors; changes to the competitive landscape; estimates and projections by the investment community; the arrival or departure of key personnel, especially the retirement or departure of key senior transaction professionals and management, including members of HFF Holdings; the introduction of new services by us or our competitors; and acquisitions, strategic alliances or joint ventures involving us or our competitors. Securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general global and domestic economic, market or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our Class A common 18 Table of Contents stock. In addition, our operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, and in response, the market price of our Class A common stock could decrease significantly. You may be unable to resell your shares of our Class A common stock at or above the initial public offering price. When the market price of a company’s common stock drops significantly, stockholders sometimes institute securities class action lawsuits against the company. A securities class action lawsuit against us could cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of our management and other resources from our business. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable by permitting our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock, requiring advance notice for stockholder proposals and nominations, providing for a classified board of directors, providing for super-majority votes of stockholders for the amendment of the bylaws and certificate of incorporation, and placing limitations on convening stockholder meetings and not permitting written consents of stockholders. In addition, we are subject to provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law that restrict certain business combinations with interested stockholders. These provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 