ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K should be carefully considered before investing. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business. If any of the events described in the following risks occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of the events described in these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. We have reported a substantial net loss for the year ended December 2008. Although we were profitable in each of the previous five years, no assurance can be given as to when or if we will return to profitability. Our business has historically been that of a portfolio lender, which means that our profitability depends primarily on our ability to originate quality loans and collect loan fees, interest and principal as they come due. When loans become non-performing or their ultimate collection is in doubt, our income is adversely affected. Our provision for loan losses was $15.9 million for 2008 and was a significant contributing factor to our reported net loss for the year of $21.9 million. Our ability to return to profitability will significantly depend on the stabilization and subsequent successful resolution of our non-performing assets and other real estate owned in our loan portfolio and the successful execution of our revised business strategies, the timing and certainty of which cannot be predicted, and no assurance can be given that we will be successful in such efforts. Our loan portfolio suffered substantial deterioration during 2008 and we continue to work through significant non-performing loans or loans otherwise adversely classified. No assurance can be given that the portfolio will not experience further weakness or loss. Like most insured financial institutions, 1st Pacific Bank of California employs an asset quality rating system where assets are assigned a pass, special mention or classified rating. “Pass” assets represent those assets where there is a reasonable likelihood the asset will be repaid in accordance with its terms. Assets designated as “special mention” have potential weaknesses that deserve management’s close attention. If left uncorrected, these potential weaknesses may result in deterioration of the repayment prospects for the asset or in the bank’s credit position at some future date. While a higher level of loss reserves may be established, special mention assets are not adversely classified and do not expose an institution to sufficient risk to warrant adverse classification. All other assets not rated as “pass” or “special mention” are designated as “classified assets,” which consist of all loans classified as substandard, doubtful and loss. As a result of the significant weakening in economic conditions in our market area, our loan portfolio has suffered significant deterioration during 2008. No assurance can be given that additional loans will not be designated as “classified” or that existing classified loans will not migrate into lower classifications within that designation, resulting in additional provisions for loan losses. Our management team will need to continue to implement its strategy for reducing our classified assets, which includes, among other options, selling loans and other real estate owned, which may result in additional losses and expenses, or restructuring loans, which may result in reduced income from the current stated contractual rate. We face lending risks, especially with respect to our small- and medium-sized business clients. The risk of loan defaults or borrowers’ inabilities to make scheduled payments on their loans is inherent in the banking business. Moreover, we focus primarily on lending to small- and medium-sized businesses. These businesses may not have the capital or other resources required to weather significant business downturns or downturns in the markets in which they compete. Consequently, we may assume greater lending risks than other financial institutions which have a smaller concentration of those types of loans and which tend to make loans to larger businesses. Borrower defaults or borrowers’ inabilities to make scheduled payments may result in losses which may exceed our allowances for loan losses. These risks, if they occur, may require higher than expected loan loss provisions which, in turn, can materially impair profitability, capital adequacy and overall financial condition. We could suffer losses if we do not properly assess lending risks. Each loan involves inherent risk that the borrower will not be able to repay the loan. Although we attempt to evaluate the risks related to each loan we make, if we do not adequately assess and protect ourselves against these 16 Table of Contents risks, we may not be fully repaid. We could suffer significant loan losses if there is a systemic fault in our loan underwriting or if we have not identified all of the important risks of different types of lending. Our ability to raise deposits will be impaired because the Bank will most likely be deemed to be “adequately capitalized” for regulatory purposes. As a result of recent changes to 1st Pacific Bank of California’s loan loss reserves, it will most likely be deemed to be “adequately capitalized” after its next call report is filed. Institutions that are “adequately capitalized” must obtain a waiver from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in order to accept, renew or roll over brokered deposits. In addition, certain interest-rate limits apply to an “adequately capitalized” institution’s brokered and solicited deposits. There can be no assurance that such a waiver will be granted, or granted on the terms requested. Even with a waiver, the interest rate limitations on brokered and solicited deposits could have the effect of reducing demand for some of the deposit products. If 1st Pacific Bank of California’s level of deposits were to be reduced, either by the lack of a full brokered deposit waiver or by the interest rate limits on brokered or solicited deposits, 1st Pacific Bank of California would likely be forced to further reduce its assets, and seek alternative funding sources that may not be available. Other possible consequences of 1st Pacific Bank of California now being “adequately capitalized” include the potential for increases in 1st Pacific Bank of California’s borrowing costs and terms from the Federal Home Loan Bank and other financial institutions, as well as increases in its premiums to the Deposit Insurance Fund administered by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to insure deposits. Such changes could have a materially adverse effect on our operations. We are limited in the amount we can lend to any individual borrower. We are limited in the amount that we can lend to a single borrower. Therefore, the size of the loans which we can offer to potential customers is less than the size of loans that our competitors with larger lending limits can offer. Legal lending limits also affect our ability to seek relationships with larger and more established businesses. We may not be able to attract and retain customers seeking loans in excess of their lending limits because we cannot make such loans and we may not be able to find other lenders willing to participate in such loans with us on favorable terms. The current changing economic environment poses significant challenges for us. We are operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, including generally uncertain national and local conditions. Financial institutions continue to be affected by the softening of the real estate market and constrained financial markets. While we have no sub-prime residential loans or securities backed by such loans on our books, we have some direct exposure to the residential real estate market and we are affected by these events. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment, including job losses, interest rate resets on adjustable rate mortgage loans and other factors could have adverse effects on our borrowers which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. This deterioration in economic conditions coupled with the national economic recession could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in our allowance for loan losses and result in the following other consequences: · loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase; · demand for our products and services may decline; · low cost or non-interest bearing deposits may decrease; · collateral for our loans, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our existing loans and; · increased regulatory scrutiny. 17 Table of Contents Declines in Southern California real estate values could materially impair profitability and financial condition. Approximately 74% of our loans are secured by real estate collateral. Nearly all of the real estate securing these loans is located in Southern California, primarily in San Diego County. Real estate values are generally affected by factors such as: · the socioeconomic conditions of the area where real estate collateral is located; · fluctuations in interest rates; · the availability of real estate financing; · property and income tax laws; · local zoning ordinances governing the manner in which real estate may be used; and · federal, state and local environmental regulations. However, declines in real estate values could significantly reduce the value of the real estate collateral securing our loans, increasing the likelihood of defaults. Moreover, if the value of real estate collateral declines to a level that is not enough to provide adequate security for the underlying loans, we will need to make additional loan loss provisions which, in turn, will reduce our profits. Also, if a borrower defaults on a real estate secured loan, we may be forced to foreclose on the property and carry it as a nonearning asset which, in turn, may reduce net interest income. Our valuation and write-downs of other real estate owned may not accurately reflect current market values or be adequate to address current and future losses, which could affect our financial condition and profitability. Although we typically obtain appraisals on our other real estate owned prior to taking title to the properties and at other intervals thereafter, due to the rapid and severe deterioration in our markets, there can be no assurance that such valuations accurately reflect the current market value which may be paid by a willing purchaser in an arms-length transaction. Moreover, we cannot provide assurance that the losses associated with the other real estate owned will not exceed the estimated amounts and adversely affect future results of our operations. The calculation for the adequacy of write-downs of our other real estate owned is based on several factors, including the appraised value of the real property, economic conditions in the property’s sub-market, comparable sales, current buyer demand, availability of financing, entitlement and development obligations and costs, and historic loss experience. All of these factors have caused significant write-downs in recent periods and can change without notice based on market and economic conditions. Therefore, our valuation of write-downs of other real estate owned may not accurately reflect current values or be adequate to address current and future losses, which could affect our financial condition and profitability. Changing interest rates may adversely affect our financial performance. Our profitability largely depends on the difference between the rates of interest we earn on our loans and investments, and the interest rates we pay on deposits and other borrowings. This relationship, known as the net interest margin, is subject to fluctuation and is affected by economic and competitive factors which influence interest rates, the volume and mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, and the level of nonperforming assets. Fluctuations in interest rates will affect the demand of customers for our products and services. We are subject to interest rate risk to the degree that our interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more slowly or more rapidly or on a different basis than our interest-earning assets. Given our current volume and mix of interest-bearing liabilities and interest-earning assets, our interest margin could be expected to increase during times of rising interest rates and decline during times of falling interest rates. Therefore, significant fluctuations in interest rates may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 18 Table of Contents We are limited in our ability to pay cash dividends. 1st Pacific Bancorp depends on dividends from 1st Pacific Bank of California in order to pay cash dividends to its security holders. In addition, the amount and timing of any dividends is at the discretion of 1st Pacific Bancorp’s board of directors. Our ability to service our debt, pay dividends, and otherwise satisfy our obligations as they come due is substantially dependent on capital distributions from 1st Pacific Bank of California which we have agreed with the California Department of Financial Institutions and the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco not to take. The primary source of our funds from which we service our debt and pay our obligations and dividends is the receipt of dividends from 1st Pacific Bank of California. This source of funds is no longer available. The availability of dividends from 1st Pacific Bank of California is limited by various statutes and regulations. Based on the financial condition of 1st Pacific Bank of California and other factors, 1st Pacific Bank of California has agreed with the applicable regulatory authorities to restrict payment of dividends or other payments, including payments to us. In this regard, 1st Pacific Bank of California has agreed with the California Department of Financial Institutions and the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco to seek their approval before paying dividends to us. We do not believe that the California Department of Financial Institutions or the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco will permit payment of any dividends by 1st Pacific Bank of California to us. As a result of 1st Pacific Bank of California’s continued inability to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service our debt, pay our obligations or pay dividends on our outstanding equity securities. The continued inability to receive dividends from 1st Pacific Bank of California has and will continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco has also requested certain limits on our paying of dividends, making payments on trust preferred securities or any other capital distributions based upon 1st Pacific Bank of California’s financial condition. In this regard, the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco has advised us that it expects we will not pay any dividends, make payments on trust preferred securities or make any other capital distributions, without at least 30 days prior written approval of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects have been and will continue to be materially adversely affected. We deferred payment on the trust preferred securities for the first time recently and do not anticipate resuming those payments in the near term. Our inability to receive dividends from 1st Pacific Bank of California could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects in the event there is a default in the payment of the trust preferred securities, and that can occur after 20 consecutive quarterly deferral periods and in other circumstances because upon the event of default, an immediate payment demand could be made on us of all amounts due under the trust preferred instruments. Currently, the outstanding principal amount of the trust preferred securities is $5 million. We are reliant upon brokered deposits and other funding alternatives that may increase our cost of funds, adversely affect our operating results and may result in a shortage of financing sources. We derive liquidity through core deposit growth and payoff, maturity and sale of investment securities and loans. We have found it necessary to also solicit deposits from brokers. These brokered deposits represent funds that brokers gather from third parties and package in batches in order to find higher interest rates that are typically available for certificates of deposits with large balances, as compared to individually deposited smaller denomination deposits. Deposit holders then earn a higher rate on the money that they have invested, and the broker charges a fee for its service. As part of its funding strategy, 1st Pacific Bank of California generally obtains brokered deposits of various maturities to ensure that any run-off of brokered deposits is staggered and manageable. While brokered deposits are typically more expensive than core deposits, such funds can be obtained relatively quickly, without expensive marketing costs, and do not typically allow for early withdrawal provisions. However, as a result of 1st Pacific Bank of California no longer being considered to be “well-capitalized”, we are no longer able to accept, renew or rollover brokered deposits unless and until such time as we receive a waiver from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. There can be no assurance that such a waiver will be granted, on the terms requested, or in time for 1st Pacific Bank of California to effectively utilize brokered deposits as a source of required liquidity. If 1st Pacific Bank of California does not receive such a waiver, we will not be able to use new brokered deposits or renew existing brokered deposits as a source of liquidity. Even with a waiver, the interest rate limitations on brokered and solicited deposits could have the effect of reducing demand for some of the deposit products. 19 Table of Contents We rely on Federal Home Loan Bank system borrowings for secondary and contingent liquidity sources. We utilize borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank system for secondary and contingent sources of liquidity. Also, from time to time, we utilize this borrowing source to capitalize on market opportunities to fund investment and loan initiatives. Our Federal Home Loan Bank system borrowings totaled $50 million at December 31, 2008. Based on recent adjustments by the FHLB to the Bank’s borrowing capacity on pledged loan collateral, the Bank has only limited ability for additional borrowing under the existing arrangements. Although the Bank is working to provide the FHLB with “detailed collateral reporting” to increase its borrowing capacity, there is no guarantee the FHLB will increase the Bank’s borrowing capacity beyond its current level. Further, as the advances come due and are repaid by 1st Pacific Bank of California to the Federal Home Loan Bank, the Federal Home Loan Bank is not obligated to re-lend the funds to 1st Pacific Bank of California. If we are unable to find alternative sources of liquidity which, if available, will probably be at a higher cost and on terms that do not match the structure of our liabilities as well as Federal Home Loan Bank system borrowings do, then our liquidity position may be further weakened. Our future growth may be limited if we are not able to raise additional capital. Banks and bank holding companies are required to conform to regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and maintain their capital at specified percentages of their assets. These guidelines may limit our ability to grow and could result in banking regulators requiring increased capital levels or reduced loan and other earning asset levels. Therefore, in order to continue to increase our earning assets and net income, we may, from time to time, need to raise additional capital. Additional capital may not be available or, if it is, that additional capital may not be available on economically reasonable terms. Our ability to grow may be impacted by our capital levels. We intend to continue to expand our businesses and operations to increase deposits and loans. Continued growth may present operating and other problems that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Among other things growth without additional capital could cause us to become inadequately capitalized and subject us to regulatory enforcement action, see “SUPERVISION AND REGULATION – Enforcement Powers.” Our growth may place a strain on our administrative, operational, personnel and financial resources and increase demands on our systems and controls. Our ability to manage growth successfully will depend on our ability to attract qualified personnel and maintain cost controls and asset quality while attracting additional loans and deposits on favorable terms, as well as on factors beyond our control, such as economic conditions and interest rate trends. If we grow too quickly and are not able to attract qualified personnel, control costs and maintain asset quality, this continued rapid growth could materially adversely affect our financial performance. We compete against larger banks and other institutions. We compete for loans and deposits with other banks, savings and thrift associations and credit unions located in our service areas, as well as with other financial services organizations such as brokerage firms, insurance companies and money market mutual funds. These competitors aggressively solicit customers within their market area by advertising through direct mail, the electronic media and other means. Many competitors have been in business longer, have established customer bases and are substantially larger. These competing financial institutions offer services, including international banking services that we can only offer through correspondents, if at all. Additionally, these competitors have greater capital resources and, consequently, higher lending limits. At December 31, 2008, our lending limit per borrower was approximately $5.4 million for unsecured loans and $9.0 20 Table of Contents million for secured loans. These limitations were calculated using the California Financial Code, Article 1 for lending limits and are primarily based on the capital level of the Bank. Finally, some competitors are not subject to the same degree of regulation. We compete against banks and other institutions that have received Federal capital. We have applied for, but at this time have not received, funding from the U.S. Treasury under the Capital Purchase Program of the Troubled Asset Relief Program, known as TARP. Many of our competitors have already received TARP money and therefore have increased their capital resources and lending limits. These competitors may be better able to compete against us due to this new source of capital from which we have not received any capital. Current banking laws and regulations affect activities. We are subject to extensive regulation. Supervision, regulation and examination of banks and bank holding companies by regulatory agencies are intended primarily to protect depositors rather than security holders. These regulatory agencies examine bank holding companies and commercial banks, establish capital and other financial requirements and approve acquisitions or other changes of control of financial institutions. Our ability to establish new facilities or make acquisitions requires approvals from applicable regulatory bodies. Changes in legislation and regulations will continue to have a significant impact on the banking industry. Although some of the legislative and regulatory changes may benefit us, others may increase our costs of doing business and indirectly assist our non-bank competitors who are not subject to similar regulation. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and distract management. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”). These requirements are extensive. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls for financial reporting. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight are required. This may divert management’s attention from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Economic conditions either nationally or locally in areas in which our operations are concentrated may adversely affect our business. Deterioration in local, regional, national or global economic conditions could cause us to experience a reduction in deposits and new loans, an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loans, all of which could adversely affect our performance and financial condition. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services locally, specifically, within San Diego County. Therefore, we are particularly vulnerable to adverse local economic conditions. The efforts of the federal government to stabilize the financial institution sector could result in more rigorous competition for 1st Pacific Bank of California. Since the beginning of 2008, the financial sector has consolidated as large institutions have combined, often with federal government assistance. In some cases, the federal rescue efforts also have resulted in substantial government funds being put into these institutions as new capital or commitments to guarantee new or existing debt. These institutions are now in a stronger position to compete with our bank, especially for on-line banking products such as certificates of deposit and home mortgage loans, by offering higher rates on deposits and lower rates on loans. The efforts of the federal government to stabilize the financial institution sector could result in more costs than benefits to 1st Pacific Bank of California. Most of the extraordinary rescue efforts of the federal government in 2008 and 2009 have been designed to assist large, money-center financial institutions and broker-dealers in order to avoid further risk to the functioning of the national and international financial systems. 1st Pacific Bank of California is expected to receive little direct 21 Table of Contents benefit from those efforts, although the federal insurance on 1st Pacific Bank of California’s deposits rose from $100,000 to $250,000 per account holder, temporarily. 1st Pacific Bank of California is likely to help pay for these rescue efforts, however, through higher premiums paid to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. For example, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has established a Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program to guarantee temporarily all newly-issued senior unsecured debt of certain financial institutions. 1st Pacific Bank of California will not participate in this program but any losses from the program will be assessed against all FDIC-insured institutions, regardless of whether they participate. Further, these rescue efforts may lead to higher corporate income tax rates. Any such losses and higher taxes or assessments would adversely affect 1st Pacific Bank of California’s net income. Legislative or other government action to provide mortgage relief may negatively impact our business. As delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures in and of residential mortgages have increased dramatically, there are several federal, state and local initiatives that would, if made final, restrict our ability to foreclose and resell the property of a customer in default. Any restriction on our ability to foreclose on a loan, any requirement that we forego a portion of the amount otherwise due on a loan or any requirement that we modify any original loan terms is likely to negatively impact our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. These initiatives have come in the form of proposed legislation and regulations, including those pertaining to federal bankruptcy laws, government investigations and calls for voluntary standard setting. Regardless of whether a specific law is proposed or enacted, there are several federal and state government initiatives that seek to obtain the voluntary agreement of servicers to subscribe to a code of conduct or statement of principles or methodologies when working with borrowers facing foreclosure on their homes. Generally speaking, the principles call for servicers to reach out to borrowers with adjustable rate mortgages before their loans “reset” with higher monthly payments that might result in a default by a borrower and seek to modify loans prior to the reset. Applicable servicing agreements, federal tax law and accounting standards generally limit the ability of a servicer to modify a loan before the borrower has defaulted on the loan or the servicer has determined that a default by the borrower is reasonably likely to occur. Servicing agreements generally require the servicer to act in the best interests of the investors or at least not to take actions that are materially adverse to the interests of the investors. Compliance with the code or principles contemplated by various federal and state initiatives must conform to these other contractual, tax and accounting standards. As a result, servicers have to confront competing demands from consumers and those advocating on their behalf to make home retention the overarching priority when dealing with borrowers in default, on the one hand, and the requirements of investors to maximize returns on the loans, on the other. If we are unable to strike the right balance between these demands and requirements, the results of our operations could be adversely affected. Our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected if our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to absorb actual losses or if we are required to increase our allowance. Despite our underwriting criteria, we may experience loan delinquencies and losses. In order to absorb losses associated with nonperforming loans, we both maintain an allowance for loan losses based on, among other things, historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions, and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. Determination of the allowance inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. We may be required to increase our allowance for loan losses for any of several reasons. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in our allowances. In addition, actual charge-offs in future periods, if not adequately reserved for, will require additional increases in our allowances for loan losses. Any increases in our allowances for loan losses will result in a decrease in our net income and, possibly, our capital, and may materially affect our results of operations in the period in which the allowance is increased. We rely on our management and other key personnel, and the loss of any of them may adversely affect our operations. We are and will continue to be dependent upon the services of our executive management team. In addition, we will continue to depend on our ability to retain and recruit key banking officers. The unexpected loss of services of any key management personnel or banking officers could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition because of their skills, knowledge of our market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. In the event that the employment of our executive officers is 22 Table of Contents terminated in the future without cause, under the terms of their respective employment agreements, most of our executive officers would be entitled to receive continued salary at the rate then in effect for varying periods of time following termination. Such obligations to make severance payments could be triggered in the event we are acquired and the executive officer is terminated in connection with such acquisition. Failure to implement new technologies in our operations may adversely affect our growth or profits. Advances in technology increasingly affect the market for financial services, including banking services and consumer finance services. Our ability to compete successfully in these markets may depend on the extent to which we are able to exploit such technological changes. However, we may not be able to properly or timely anticipate or implement such technologies or properly train our staff to use such technologies. Further, the added cost of technology for small banks such as us adversely affects our profitability. Any failure to adapt to new technologies could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. We may be subject to an increased likelihood of class action litigation and additional regulatory enforcement. The market price of our common stock has declined substantially over the past year, reflective of such factors as our reported losses, investors’ perceptions about our business prospects and the financial services industry in general. The occurrence of these events could result in shareholder class action lawsuits, even if the activities subject to complaint are not unlawful. These events and negative publicity may result in more regulation and legislative scrutiny of our industry practices and may expose us to increased shareholder litigation and additional regulatory enforcement actions, which could adversely affect our business. We can issue common stock and preferred stock without your approval, diluting your proportional ownership interest. Our articles of incorporation authorize us to issue 10,000,000 shares of common stock and 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock. As of February 28, 2009, we had no shares of preferred stock outstanding and had 4,980,481 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. We also have 1,545,976 shares reserved under our stock option plans covering our directors, officers, employees and consultants. As of February 28, 2009, there were options and warrants outstanding to purchase a total of 980,148 shares at a weighted average price of $8.38 per share. Consequently, any shares of common stock or preferred stock that we issue subsequent to your purchase of our stock will dilute your proportional ownership interest in us. The price of our common stock may decrease, preventing you from selling your shares at a profit. The market price of our common stock could decrease and prevent you from selling your shares at a profit. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated in recent years. Fluctuations may occur, among other reasons, due to: · operating results; · market demand; · announcements by competitors; · economic changes; · general market conditions; and · legislative and regulatory changes. The trading price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate in response to these factors and others, many of which are beyond our control. “Penny Stock” rules may make buying or selling our common stock difficult. While our market price is below $5.00 per share, trading in our common stock may be subject to the “penny stock” rules. The SEC has adopted regulations that generally define a penny stock to be any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. These rules would require that any broker-dealer that would recommend our common stock to persons other than prior customers and accredited investors, 23 Table of Contents must, prior to the sale, make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to execute the transaction. Unless an exception is available, the regulations would require the delivery, prior to any transaction involving a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated with trading in the penny stock market. In addition, broker-dealers must disclose commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities they offer. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by such requirements may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common stock, which could severely limit the market price and liquidity of our common stock. An investment in our common stock is not an insured deposit. Our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, commonly referred to as the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company is not aware of any unresolved comments from the staff of the SEC. ITEM 