ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K should be carefully considered before investing. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business. If any of the events described in the following risks occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of the events described in these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. We can issue common stock and preferred stock without your approval, diluting your proportional ownership interest. Our articles of incorporation authorize us to issue 10,000,000 shares of common stock and 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock. As of February 29, 2008, we had no shares of preferred stock outstanding and had 4,947,763 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. We also have 1,545,976 shares reserved under our stock option plans covering our directors, officers, employees and consultants. As of February 29, 2008, there were options and warrants outstanding to purchase a total of 1,029,105 shares at a weighted average price of $8.79 per share. Consequently, any shares of common stock or preferred stock that we issue subsequent to your purchase of our stock will dilute your proportional ownership interest in us. The price of our common stock may decrease, preventing you from selling your shares at a profit. The market price of our common stock could decrease and prevent you from selling your shares at a profit. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated in recent years. Fluctuations may occur, among other reasons, due to: •operating results; •market demand; •announcements by competitors; •economic changes; •general market conditions; and •legislative and regulatory changes. The trading price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate in response to these factors and others, many of which are beyond our control. An investment in our common stock is not an insured deposit. Our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, commonly referred to as the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. We face lending risks, especially with respect to our small- and medium-sized business clients. The risk of loan defaults or borrowers' inabilities to make scheduled payments on their loans is inherent in the banking business. Moreover, we focus primarily on lending to small- and medium-sized businesses. These businesses may not have the capital or other resources required to weather significant business downturns or downturns in the markets in which they compete. Consequently, we may assume 18 greater lending risks than other financial institutions which have a smaller concentration of those types of loans and which tend to make loans to larger businesses. Borrower defaults or borrowers' inabilities to make scheduled payments may result in losses which may exceed our allowances for loan losses. These risks, if they occur, may require higher than expected loan loss provisions which, in turn, can materially impair profitability, capital adequacy and overall financial condition. We are limited in the amount we can lend to any individual borrower. We are limited in the amount that we can lend to a single borrower. Therefore, the size of the loans which we can offer to potential customers is less than the size of loans that our competitors with larger lending limits can offer. Legal lending limits also affect our ability to seek relationships with larger and more established businesses. We may not be able to attract and retain customers seeking loans in excess of their lending limits because we cannot make such loans and we may not be able to find other lenders willing to participate in such loans with us on favorable terms. The current changing economic environment poses significant challenges for us. We are operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, including generally uncertain national and local conditions. Financial institutions continue to be affected by the softening of the real estate market and constrained financial markets. While we have no sub-prime residential loans or securities backed by such loans on our books, we have some direct exposure to the residential real estate market and we are affected by these events. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment, including job losses, interest rate resets on adjustable rate mortgage loans and other factors could have adverse effects on our borrowers which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. This deterioration in economic conditions coupled with a possible national economic recession could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in our allowance for loan losses and result in the following other consequences: •loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase; •demand for our products and services may decline; •low cost or non-interest bearing deposits may decrease; •collateral for our loans, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing customers' borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our existing loans; and; •increased regulatory scrutiny. Declines in Southern California real estate values could materially impair profitability and financial condition. Approximately 77% of our loans are secured by real estate collateral. Nearly all of the real estate securing these loans is located in Southern California, primarily in San Diego County. Real estate values are generally affected by factors such as: •the socioeconomic conditions of the area where real estate collateral is located; •fluctuations in interest rates; •the availability of real estate financing; •property and income tax laws; •local zoning ordinances governing the manner in which real estate may be used; and 19 •federal, state and local environmental regulations. However, declines in real estate values could significantly reduce the value of the real estate collateral securing our loans, increasing the likelihood of defaults. Moreover, if the value of real estate collateral declines to a level that is not enough to provide adequate security for the underlying loans, we will need to make additional loan loss provisions which, in turn, will reduce our profits. Also, if a borrower defaults on a real estate secured loan, we may be forced to foreclose on the property and carry it as a nonearning asset which, in turn, may reduce net interest income. Changing interest rates may adversely affect our financial performance. Our profitability largely depends on the difference between the rates of interest we earn on our loans and investments, and the interest rates we pay on deposits and other borrowings. This relationship, known as the net interest margin, is subject to fluctuation and is affected by economic and competitive factors which influence interest rates, the volume and mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, and the level of nonperforming assets. Fluctuations in interest rates will affect the demand of customers for our products and services. We are subject to interest rate risk to the degree that our interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more slowly or more rapidly or on a different basis than their interest-earning assets. Given our current volume and mix of interest-bearing liabilities and interest-earning assets, our interest margin could be expected to increase during times of rising interest rates and decline during times of falling interest rates. Therefore, significant fluctuations in interest rates may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We are limited in our ability to pay cash dividends. 1st Pacific Bancorp depends on dividends from 1st Pacific Bank of California in order to pay cash dividends to its security holders. In addition, the amount and timing of any dividends is at the discretion of 1st Pacific Bancorp's board of directors. We are reliant upon brokered deposits and other funding alternatives that increase our cost of funds, adversely affect our operating results and may result in a shortage of financing sources. We require liquidity in order to fund our loans. Liquidity is provided by deposits and other sources of financing, such as advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of which we are a member, and correspondent banks. At December 31, 2007, 1st Pacific Bank of California had $48 million of funding from brokered deposits. These types of deposits are generally considered more volatile as customers are more concerned with rates than relationships, and can be more costly than other types of deposits. Significant withdrawals or non-renewals of such deposits could cause us to rely on funds from correspondent banks or other institutional sources more heavily than at present, at even higher rates of interest, if those sources continue to be available. The loss of such deposits or the unavailability of alternative sources of funding could also cause us to have a shortage in liquidity so that we might not be able to meet the demand for loans. Any of these circumstances would have an adverse effect on our profitability, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our future growth may be limited if we are not able to raise additional capital. Banks and bank holding companies are required to conform to regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and maintain their capital at specified percentages of their assets. These guidelines may limit our ability to grow and could result in banking regulators requiring increased capital levels or reduced loan and other earning asset levels. Therefore, in order to continue to increase our earning assets and net income, we may, from time to time, need to raise additional capital. Additional capital may not be available or, if it is, that additional capital may not be available on economically reasonable terms. 20 We plan to continue to grow and there are risks associated with growth. We intend to continue to expand our businesses and operations to increase deposits and loans. Continued growth may present operating and other problems that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our growth may place a strain on our administrative, operational, personnel and financial resources and increase demands on our systems and controls. Our ability to manage growth successfully will depend on our ability to attract qualified personnel and maintain cost controls and asset quality while attracting additional loans and deposits on favorable terms, as well as on factors beyond our control, such as economic conditions and interest rate trends. If we grow too quickly and are not able to attract qualified personnel, control costs and maintain asset quality, this continued rapid growth could materially adversely affect our financial performance. We compete against larger banks and other institutions. We compete for loans and deposits with other banks, savings and thrift associations and credit unions located in their service areas, as well as with other financial services organizations such as brokerage firms, insurance companies and money market mutual funds. These competitors aggressively solicit customers within their market area by advertising through direct mail, the electronic media and other means. Many competitors have been in business longer, have established customer bases and are substantially larger. These competing financial institutions offer services, including international banking services that we can only offer through correspondents, if at all. Additionally, these competitors have greater capital resources and, consequently, higher lending limits. At December 31, 2007, our lending limit per borrower was approximately $7.1 million for unsecured loans and $11.8 million for secured loans. These limitations were calculated using the California Financial Code, Article 1 for lending limits and are primarily based on the capital level of the Bank. Finally, some competitors are not subject to the same degree of regulation. Current banking laws and regulations affect activities. We are subject to extensive regulation. Supervision, regulation and examination of banks and bank holding companies by regulatory agencies are intended primarily to protect depositors rather than security holders. These regulatory agencies examine bank holding companies and commercial banks, establish capital and other financial requirements and approve acquisitions or other changes of control of financial institutions. Our ability to establish new facilities or make acquisitions requires approvals from applicable regulatory bodies. Changes in legislation and regulations will continue to have a significant impact on the banking industry. Although some of the legislative and regulatory changes may benefit us, others may increase our costs of doing business and indirectly assist their non-bank competitors who are not subject to similar regulation. Economic conditions either nationally or locally in areas in which our operations are concentrated may adversely affect our business. Deterioration in local, regional, national or global economic conditions could cause us to experience a reduction in deposits and new loans, an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loans, all of which could adversely affect our performance and financial condition. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services locally, specifically, within San Diego County. Therefore, we are particularly vulnerable to adverse local economic conditions. 21 Our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected if our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to absorb actual losses or if we are required to increase our allowance. Despite our underwriting criteria, we may experience loan delinquencies and losses. In order to absorb losses associated with nonperforming loans, we both maintain an allowance for loan losses based on, among other things, historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions, and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. Determination of the allowance inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. We may be required to increase our allowance for loan losses for any of several reasons. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of either of our control, may require an increase in our allowances. In addition, actual charge-offs in future periods, if not adequately reserved for, will require additional increases in our allowances for loan losses. Any increases in our allowances for loan losses will result in a decrease in our net income and, possibly, our capital, and may materially affect our results of operations in the period in which the allowance is increased. We rely on our management and other key personnel, and the loss of any of them may adversely affect our operations. We are and will continue to be dependent upon the services of our executive management team. In addition, we will continue to depend on our ability to retain and recruit key banking officers. The unexpected loss of services of any key management personnel or banking officers could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition because of their skills, knowledge of our market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. In the event that the employment of our executive officers is terminated in the future without cause, under the terms of their respective employment agreements, each of our executive officers would be entitled to receive continued salary at the rate then in effect for varying periods of time following termination. Such obligations to make severance payments could be triggered in the event we are acquired and the executive officer is terminated in connection with such acquisition. Failure to implement new technologies in our operations may adversely affect our growth or profits. Advances in technology increasingly affect the market for financial services, including banking services and consumer finance services. Our ability to compete successfully in these markets may depend on the extent to which we are able to exploit such technological changes. However, we may not be able to properly or timely anticipate or implement such technologies or properly train our staff to use such technologies. Further, the added cost of technology for small banks such as us adversely affects our profitability. Any failure to adapt to new technologies could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company is not aware of any unresolved comments from the staff of the SEC. 