Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Form 10-K could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. You should not rely upon our forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee that our future results, levels of activity, performance or events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur. Moreover, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason after the date of this Form 10-K to conform these statements to actual results or to changes in our expectations. This Form 10-K also contains statistical data and estimates that we obtained from industry publications and reports generated by Forrester Research. Although we have assessed the information in the publications and found it to be reasonable and believe the publications are reliable, we have not independently verified the data. You should read this Form 10-K and the documents that we reference in this Form 10-K and have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) with the understanding that our actual future results, levels of activity, performance and events and circumstances may be materially different from what we currently expect. 3 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. BUSINESS Overview We develop, market and sell network-based platforms that enable cable multiple system operators (MSOs) and telecommunications companies (collectively, service providers) to offer video services across coaxial, fiber and copper networks. We were incorporated in Delaware in December 1998. Since that time, we have developed significant expertise in rich media processing, communications networking and bandwidth management. Our customers are using our platforms to expand high-definition television (HDTV) services, and enable high-quality video advertising programming to subscribers. Our Broadcast Video, TelcoTV, Switched Digital Video and IPTV (Personalized Video) solutions are comprised of a combination of software and programmable hardware platforms. We have sold our solutions to more than 200 customers globally. We sell our products and services to customers in the U.S. and Canada through our direct sales force. Domestically, our customers include Bright House, Cablevision, Charter, Comcast, Cox, Time Warner Cable and Verizon, which are seven of the ten largest service providers in the U.S. We sell to customers internationally through a combination of direct sales and resellers. Our largest international resellers include Guangdong Tongke, Sugys and Ssangyong, who sell to end users such as Jiangsu Cable and LG Powercom. Industry Background MSOs and telecommunications companies derive most of their revenues from consumer subscriptions for video, voice or data services and from advertising. To attract and retain subscribers, service providers are increasingly bundling video, voice and data services, and offering richer and more personalized services. The competition for video subscriptions has been increasing over time, with initial competition coming from satellite video providers, more recently between cable MSOs and telecommunications companies and most recently from the entry of media companies, such as Hulu and Apple, offering video programming directly to consumers through the Internet. In this competition, the service providers are competing on the volume of HD programs and personalization that they can offer to subscribers. Consumer Demands Given increasing competition, service providers are attempting to differentiate their offerings by addressing changing consumer behavior and evolving advertiser demands. Spurred by the delivery of video over the Internet, consumers are increasingly directing their spending on video services to those providers offering services that more offer greater personalization of content, a higher quality experience and greater ease and speed of access to their video services. • Personalization. With the proliferation in content, consumers are seeking content that is increasingly customized to their personal interests. This personalized content spans everything from the purchase of downloadable episodes of television programming to customized video programming, such as Video on Demand (VOD) and niche channel packages. • Richer Video Content. Consumers are demanding a higher quality experience, whether online or in their television viewing. As a result, consumers are continuing to purchase HDTVs and high-speed data services to access richer content, such as HD programming, user-generated video clips and interactive online video games. For example, Forrester Research estimates that 57% of all U.S. households will have HD televisions by the end of 2010. • Ease and Speed of Access. In an increasingly mobile world, consumers desire faster access to content from virtually anywhere using a wide range of devices, such as portable media players, televisions, mobile phones, personal digital assistants and personal computers. Consumers have been able to gain greater personalization, richer content and better access to their voice and data services using network-based technologies. For video, however, there has been only a limited response to these consumer demands. To offer richer, more personalized content at the speeds consumers expect, and to capture the 4 Table of Contents larger video subscription opportunity, service providers are developing networks with the bandwidth to deliver richer video services and the intelligence to tailor video services and direct advertising to individual subscribers. Advertiser Demands Traditionally, advertisers attempted to reach consumers through media channels such as broadcast television that distributed the same advertising to wide audiences. The Internet offers advertisers a distribution channel that delivers more relevant ads, while at the same time offering the interactivity required to measure return on ad spending. Today, advertisers are demanding that advertising on video services offer similar relevancy, interactivity and measurability. • Relevancy. Advertisers are demanding that their advertisements be addressed to a relevant audience. For example, they desire to target video advertising to particular geographic zones, and ultimately want to tailor advertising to specific subscribers. • Interactivity. Advertisers want to provide consumers with an easy and immediate way to respond to an advertisement. For example, advertisers would like to provide subscribers with the ability to use a remote control to immediately access additional product information associated with a television advertisement. • Measurability. Advertisers are seeking ad distribution networks that allow them to measure the effectiveness of their ad spending and are willing to pay more for video advertisements that result in a higher consumer response rate. To encourage advertisers to direct more spending toward television advertisements, service providers must be able to deliver relevant advertisements and measure the effectiveness of marketing campaigns for advertisers. The current video networks of service providers are limited in their ability to provide the intelligence necessary for the relevancy, interactivity and measurability required to meet the expanding demands of advertisers. Intelligent, High-Bandwidth Video Networks are Needed Current service provider networks are not fully equipped for increasingly rich and interactive video content. Cable MSOs that originally built their networks for the one-way broadcast of analog video content still lack the capacity to deliver as much of the rich content and interactivity increasingly required by consumers and advertisers. Telecommunications companies originally constructed low-bandwidth networks capable of delivering highly interactive voice services, but without the bandwidth necessary to fully deliver rich video services. Collectively, cable MSOs and telecommunications companies share a need to develop intelligent, high-bandwidth video networks for their consumer and advertiser customers. Delivering high-quality, personalized video services and relevant video-based advertising has strained service providers’ existing network infrastructures. For a robust delivery of these services, service providers must overcome the following challenges: • Bandwidth Limitations Posed by Video. Service providers’ fixed-bandwidth networks are not fully equipped for the volume and richness of content being demanded by subscribers. For example, a typical HDTV video stream requires 19.4 megabits per second (Mbps) of continuous bandwidth, which is up to ten times the bandwidth required by a standard definition video stream and substantially greater than the 10 Mbps limit of most copper-based network data connections. To meet the demand for more and richer content such as HDTV, service providers must either undertake a costly capital expansion of their network infrastructures or use their existing infrastructure more efficiently. • Difficulty of Delivering a High-Quality Video Experience. Service provider networks are inherently prone to packet loss, error and delay. This problem is exacerbated as the richness and volume of the content being delivered across the network increases. Importantly, HDTV is approximately 1,000 times more sensitive to packet loss, error and delay than voice and data services. To ensure a consistent high-quality subscriber viewing experience, service providers must find solutions that maintain the integrity of the video streams as these streams are delivered across their networks. 5 Table of Contents • Lack of Customized Video Programming. Existing networks lack the intelligence to allow service providers to understand and react to subscriber television viewing behavior. As a result, service providers lack the ability to deliver video programming packages tailored to the interests of specific subscribers or groups of subscribers. To deliver customized video programming, service providers require networks that will enable them to understand subscriber viewing behavior and, based on that understanding, allow them to deliver new video channels and programming packages to specific subscribers or groups of subscribers. • Requirement for More Relevant Video Advertising. Advertisers are demanding that their advertisements be addressed to a relevant audience. To satisfy this demand, service providers need the capability to deliver video advertising to particular geographic segments and demographic groups, and ultimately, to tailor advertising to specific subscribers. In most broadcast implementations, service providers lack the capability to distinguish one subscriber from another and the capacity to insert tailored advertising into a continuous video stream without degrading service quality. Service providers are seeking solutions that will enable the seamless insertion of relevant advertisements into video streams. • High Cost of Infrastructure Investment. Service providers have invested heavily to establish their existing network infrastructures, including the deployment of a significant number of cable set-top boxes. Service providers must either make significant investments to upgrade or replace their existing infrastructure, or find ways to extend the useful life of their installed equipment. Service providers generally prefer network-based capital investments since these costs can be allocated across many subscribers without costly replacement of existing set-top boxes. • Need to Rapidly Deliver Advanced Services. Historically, service providers have needed to make very large capital expenditures to purchase replacement network equipment to support next-generation services. With the increasing pace of change, service providers require platforms with the flexibility to rapidly deploy advanced video services while minimizing lengthy and capital-intensive network upgrades. Service providers face common challenges — how to rapidly and economically offer an increasing amount of video content, deliver a more compelling user experience and deliver more relevant programming and advertising to their subscribers. The technical and bandwidth challenges associated with delivering video services creates a need for platforms designed for reliable and cost-effective video delivery. The BigBand Offering We develop, market and sell network-based platforms that enable service providers to offer video services across coaxial, fiber and copper networks. Our software and hardware solutions are used to offer video services commercially to tens of millions of subscribers, 24 hours a day, seven days a week and have been successfully deployed by leading service providers worldwide, including seven of the ten largest service providers in the U.S. We combine rich media processing, modular software and high-speed switching and routing with carrier-class hardware designed to address specific service provider needs into our solutions. Our solutions enable service providers to deliver high-quality video services and offer more effective video advertising. We offer our customers Broadcast Video, TelcoTV, Switched Digital Video and IPTV (Personalized Video) solutions. Our solution offers the following key benefits: • Intelligent Bandwidth Management. Using our solutions, service providers can address their increasing bandwidth needs. For example, we offer what we believe to be the most widely deployed switched digital video solution commercially available today. Our Switched Digital Video solution only transmits channels to subscribers when the subscribers in a service group are in the process of watching those channels, instead of broadcasting all channels to all subscribers all the time. This enables service providers to achieve 50% or greater savings in bandwidth usage for digital subscribers, allowing service providers to offer additional services (such as HDTV channels) without altering the subscriber viewing experience. • High-Quality Video Experience. Our solutions allow service providers to minimize the likelihood of video quality errors by detecting potential video quality degradation in real-time and correcting such degradation before the video stream is delivered to subscribers. Our Broadcast Video solution is designed to increase the 6 Table of Contents volume and quality of video delivered across a fixed-bandwidth network by optimizing the delivery of video streams, while our program level redundancy functionality adds the switching capability to automatically provision an alternative video stream should the quality of the primary stream begin to degrade. • Enhanced Video Personalization. Using our solutions, service providers have the ability to understand the viewing habits of their customers and, as a result, can more accurately tailor programming packages to the interests of their subscribers. For example, our Switched Digital Video solution enables service providers to satisfy consumer demand for increasingly personalized content by expanding the number of channels that can be offered because selected channels are only delivered when the channel is requested by a subscriber in the service group. Using this solution, one of our customers was able to offer additional channel packages tailored to demographic groups. • Ability to Deliver Relevant Video Advertising. Our solutions allow service providers to insert advertising tailored to specific subscriber groups. For example, using our IPTV solution, service providers can simultaneously insert different ads into multiple copies of the same program and forward them to specific geographic zones. This allows service providers to attract advertisers interested in reaching niche markets. • Improved Return on Existing Infrastructure Investment. Our network-based solutions allow service providers to manage service quality from the network, rather than deploying costly personnel and equipment at the customer premises. Because our solutions are deployed at the network level, service providers can leverage their infrastructure investment across many subscribers and avoid the hardware and service costs associated with an upgrade of equipment in the homes of subscribers. • High Availability. Our solutions are built utilizing carrier class hardware that provides our customers with solutions that offer improved uptime of the platforms for the video services they deliver to consumers. The high availability of our platforms is designed to reduce the cost of maintenance of these platforms, and as a result reduce the total cost of ownership. • Platform Flexibility. Our solutions feature a fully programmable hardware and modular software architecture. Our field-upgradable hardware is designed to meet service provider platform flexibility requirements and to minimize the need to replace existing hardware. Strategy Our objective is to be the leading provider of network-based products that enable the delivery of high-bandwidth, high-quality video services and more effective video advertising. Key elements of our strategy include the following: • Enhance Technology Leadership Position. Our core strength is our media processing and video systems design expertise. We use this expertise to deliver what we believe to be the most-widely deployed switched digital video product commercially available today. We will continue leveraging our expertise to deliver solutions that focus on optimizing network infrastructure and enabling delivery of a high-quality user experience. • Leverage Modular Architecture to Accelerate New Product Introduction. We have created a series of media processing software modules that, when combined with our programmable hardware and switching fabric, serve as the foundation for a range of network-based solutions. We believe our software modules can serve as the foundation for rapidly delivering solutions that address our customers’ bandwidth and service delivery needs. • Expand Footprint Within Existing Customer Base. We have customer relationships with a number of service providers both in the U.S. and internationally, including seven of the ten largest service providers in the U.S. We believe these customer relationships give us a strong advantage in understanding our customers’ network challenges and delivering timely solutions. We will continue to work closely with our customers on the designs of their network architectures and emerging services, expand our relationships with these customers to deploy more of our existing applications and develop and deliver new applications to address their network challenges. 7 Table of Contents • Expand Customer Base. Service providers deploy video services to subscribers across networks based on coaxial, fiber and copper. We have successfully deployed our solutions across these access technologies. We are currently providing Verizon with a solution that allows digital transmission of video over fiber-optic lines. Other telecommunications companies deploying video services over existing DSL lines leverage our media processing expertise to provide such video services. Still others use our solutions to carry services over coaxial cable. We intend to leverage our media processing expertise to penetrate new customers worldwide, regardless of the type of access networks they use. • Broaden Advanced Advertising Capabilities. We currently enable service providers to insert video advertisements targeted to subscribers in specific geographic zones. We intend to collaborate with our customers to continue developing and deploying next-generation advertising solutions. Solutions We are a category leader in digital video networking. Our video networking solutions enable service providers to move, manage and monetize video. We deliver proven network-based platforms to empower service providers to transition from broadcast to the delivery of personalized video services. Our product solutions are a combination of advanced networking and video processing hardware platforms with software modules that optimize existing infrastructures and bandwidth to deliver application-specific functions. We believe our approach of combining carrier-grade, purpose-built platforms with modular software delivers a faster return on investment and a lower total cost of ownership compared to platforms offered by our competitors. We deliver the following product solutions: Switched Digital Video. We believe we were the first company to develop and commercially deploy a switched digital video solution. Traditionally, service providers broadcast all channels to all subscribers at all times. Our Switched Digital Video solution enables service providers to transmit video channels to subscribers only when the subscribers in a smaller subset of subscribers within a network, called a service group, are in the process of watching those channels. Depending on the number of subscribers and the amount of duplicate channels within a service group, our Switched Digital Video solution typically allows service providers to achieve up to 50% bandwidth savings in the delivery of digital video content and use the reclaimed bandwidth to offer additional content. This reclaimed bandwidth can be used to deliver niche video packages, more HDTV channels, high-speed data service and/or voice service. The diagram below illustrates how bandwidth can be reclaimed using our Switched Digital Video solution, which broadcasts only those channels that are being watched within a service group. In addition, our Switched Digital Video solution gives our service providers real-time access to the actual viewing habits of their subscriber groups, information that is increasingly valuable as they and their advertisers seek to tailor advertising or personalized channel services to specific subscriber groups and individual subscribers. We deliver our Switched Digital Video solution by combining our core media processing modules with our Broadband Multimedia-Service Router hardware platform, which we refer to as our BMR, BigBand Server and Management Suite, and Broadband Edge QAM or BEQ. Broadcast Video. Historically, video content was broadcast only in analog form. Analog video presents a number of limitations to service providers, including deterioration of video quality, higher cost to insert relevant advertising in the video stream, and the cost of converting analog to digital for certain digital devices in the home, such as digital video recorders. Our Broadcast Video solutions enable advanced digital media processing and transport technologies for service providers. For example, we were first to implement what we believe has become the industry’s de facto network architecture for digital simulcast. 8 Table of Contents Our digital simulcast product application enables service providers to create a digital version of analog inputs and deliver both analog and digital video streams to subscribers. This gives service providers a cost-efficient way of migrating subscribers from analog to digital video, which uses lower cost all-digital set-top boxes, while still supporting a large installed base of analog set-top boxes and televisions. In addition, our digital simulcast product application allows service providers to insert advertisements into the digital video stream and deliver those advertisements either in digital or analog form to subscribers. This offers our customers incremental revenue opportunities through the ability to insert advertisements into the digital stream targeted to specific geographic zones. We deliver our Broadcast Video solution by combining our BMR with our core media processing modules with advanced splicing capability. TelcoTV. Telecommunications companies use our BMR to provide a very high-quality viewing experience to their subscribers, while still benefiting from the use of digital video transport throughout their networks. We enable telecommunications companies to leverage their existing Synchronous Optical Network, or SONET, infrastructure, which was originally designed for voice communications, to transport video content throughout the network. This provides significant cost savings as telecommunications companies are not required to build a dedicated video transport network. They deploy our solution in network locations called video serving offices, or VSOs, that provide service directly to consumers. Our TelcoTV solution integrates our core media processing modules, our BMR radio frequency, or RF, modulation, and local content insertion. Personalized Video. We now offer service providers our Media Services Platform (MSP2000), a carrier-grade, network-based platform designed to enable service providers to offer a range of personalized video applications such as linear, zoned, and ultimately addressable advertising, or time-shifted delivery of television programming. This enables service providers to offer high quality, differentiated video services in conjunction with new revenues, for example increasing ad revenues via more targeting. IPTV over DOCSIS. We offer an alternative solution to deliver IP video services to home computers, IP set top boxes and other IP consumer devices via standard DOCSIS 3.0 cable modems, which we market under the name vIP PASS. vIP PASS leverages the control plane of our Converged Video Exchange (CVEx) and Switched Digital Video, and our universal edge QAMs to offload video transport from the cable modem termination system. It is designed to provide cable MSOs an economical alternative for delivery of managed IP services, compared to an investment in additional cable modem termination system downstream channel capacity. Platforms and Technologies Our intelligent, network-based applications are built on an architecture that combines modular software with extensible and scalable hardware platforms. Our chassis-based hardware platforms offer field-upgradeable hardware, high-speed switching and routing with general-purpose processing capabilities. On top of this hardware, we layer software that provides rich media processing capabilities to support more services and more subscribers. Our hardware platforms have been engineered to comply with the Level-3 Network Equipment Building System standard, or NEBS, which is a set of telecommunications industry safety and environmental design guidelines for equipment in central offices. Our platforms consist of the following: BigBand Broadband Multimedia-Service Router (BMR). Our Broadband Multimedia-Service Router is a platform that is designed for the real-time processing and switching of video. The BMR platform is a protocol-neutral architecture that processes and switches MPEG, IP and Ethernet packets. We accelerate our software media processing functionality through digital signal processors (DSPs) and field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs), which also allow the BMR to be upgraded or reconfigured over time from remote locations. The BMR is a chassis-based design that provides carrier-class reliability and the flexibility to expand functionality and capacity as network requirements evolve by adding new network cards. The BMR also supports the transmission of digital and analog signals using radio frequency, or RF, interfaces to the physical cable network through QAM, quadrature phase shift keying and analog RF. BigBand Broadband Edge QAM (BEQ). Our Broadband Edge QAM platforms are used to convert digital video and data streams into quadrature amplitude modulated (QAM) RF streams that transport video and data across cable networks to subscriber set top boxes and cable modems. The services that are transported can include Switched Digital Video, Video on Demand, Broadcast Video and DOCSIS High Speed Data. Our QAM platforms 9 Table of Contents are modular and employ digital signal processors, FPGAs and our own proprietary RF technology and algorithms. They are noted for their high signal quality and thermal efficiency. BigBand Media Services Platform (MSP2000). Our Media Services Platform is designed to manage large numbers of IP video streams combined with rich media processing to enable a range of personalized video applications such as linear, zoned, and addressable advertising. Our MSP2000 is a chassis-based platform that is designed to provide carrier-class reliability, scale and flexibility, including the ability to grow subscriber services and new applications over time with the addition of new hardware line cards. The BigBand MSP2000 is based on industry standards, open interfaces and established network protocols to simplify the platform integration into existing service provider networks. Converged Video Exchange (CVEx). Our CVEx platform is a control plane solution designed to manage large numbers of video sessions while optimizing network bandwidth utilization. The CVEx platform is a fundamental component of our Switched Digital Video deployments and offers Edge Resource Manager (ERM) functionality to share QAM capacity across different network services. In addition, CVEx serves as the control plane for our vIP Pass solution to deliver managed IP video services with high performance and cost effectively across video QAMs. Software Applications We have created a set of software modules that define the attributes and functionality of our solutions. Our software architecture allows these modules to be combined with one another in various configurations. Selected modular software components are described below: • RateShaping. Our RateShaping module combines digital signal processing and statistical multiplexing using complex algorithms to enable more video streams to be transported using the same amount of bandwidth. With RateShaping, we conserve bandwidth by intelligently allocating bandwidth to programs that require more, while reducing bandwidth to programs that require less. The diagram below depicts how our RateShaping module can take variable-rate video streams and adjust them to conform to a fixed amount of bandwidth capacity. • RateClamping. The amount of bandwidth required to deliver a digital video program varies based on the complexity of the picture being transmitted within that program. For applications where a constant bit rate is desired, such as Switched Digital Video, RateClamping converts variable input feeds into constant bit rate streams, with the output bandwidth determined according to the service provider’s priorities. RateClamping is frequently utilized to deliver services such as VOD, Switched Digital Video and network-based digital video recorders. The diagram below depicts how our RateClamping module can convert variable-rate video streams into constant-rate video streams. • Splicing. Our Splicing functionality allows an alternate program, usually an advertisement, to be seamlessly inserted into an existing video stream. Using our Splicing functionality, service providers 10 Table of Contents can perform hundreds of concurrent splices of different advertisements to multiple advertising zones, targeting different neighborhoods, in a single BMR. Our Splicing functionality is integral to our Broadcast Video solution. • Program-level Redundancy. Our Redundancy module inspects a video stream at the individual program level to detect errors and switches to the back-up source program without interrupting other programs on the same transport stream. By contrast, other competitive redundancy solutions do not detect problems with individual programs, which can result in a lower quality viewer experience. • Metadata Processing. Our applications process metadata such as the name of the program, plot summary and actors. This allows the service provider to actively control the type and amount of metadata that is provided to the subscriber’s television, thus enabling the service provider to populate program guide content and provide enhanced interactive TV functions. Customers We sell our products to cable MSOs and telecommunications companies worldwide, both directly and through resellers. In the U.S., our products are deployed by seven of the ten largest service providers. Our significant customers for 2009 were as follows: Bright House Networks Cox Communications Ssangyong Cableone Delta NV Sugys Cablevision Systems Guangdong Tongke Time Warner Cable Charter Communications Knology, Inc. Verizon Comcast Multikabel NV Videotron A substantial majority of our sales have been to a limited number of large customers. However, our large customers have changed over time. Sales to our five largest customers represented 78%, 81% and 75%, respectively, of our net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. In 2009, Charter Communications, Time Warner Cable and Verizon each represented 10% or more of our net revenues. In both 2008 and 2007, Cox Communications, Time Warner Cable and Verizon each represented 10% or more of our net revenues. Although we are attempting to broaden our customer base by penetrating new markets and expanding internationally, we expect that for the foreseeable future, a limited number of large customers will continue to comprise a large percentage of our revenues. Net revenues from sales to customers outside of the U.S. represented 11%, 9% and 17%, respectively, of our net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. We sell our solutions to a number of our large customers pursuant to master purchase agreements. For example, we sell our TelcoTV and Management Software solutions, as well as customer support and training services, to Verizon pursuant to a master purchase agreement that is effective through December 31, 2010. Among other things, this agreement provides that our TelcoTV solution will be the exclusive edge modulation solution for Verizon, subject to performance against certain previously-negotiated service metrics. In addition, the agreement provides for pricing (including previously-negotiated annual price reductions), the terms of a five-year hardware and software warranty and the terms of the five-year service commitment. Likewise, we sell our Switched Digital Video and Broadcast Video solutions to Time Warner Cable and Charter Communications in conformance with master purchase agreements between the parties. While the agreements with Time Warner Cable and Charter Communications have lapsed, the parties have continued to operate in conformance with such master purchase agreements. Among other things, these agreements provide for pricing, a one-year hardware and software warranty, and service terms. In general, our master purchase agreements do not guarantee amounts of purchases by customers. Thus, our business is more dependent on the ordering patterns of our customers, rather than the terms of the master purchase agreements with these customers. Backlog We schedule production of our products based upon our backlog, open contracts, informal commitments from customers and sales projections. Our backlog consists of firm purchase orders by customers for delivery within the next six months. As of December 31, 2009, our backlog was $6.7 million, compared to $7.0 million as of 11 Table of Contents December 31, 2008. Anticipated orders from customers may fail to materialize and delivery schedules may be deferred or cancelled for a number of reasons, including reductions in capital spending by service providers or changes in specific customer requirements. Because of the complexity of our customer acceptance and revenue recognition criteria, in addition to backlog, we have significant deferred revenues. As a result, our backlog alone is not necessarily indicative of revenues for any future periods. Sales and Marketing We sell our products in the U.S. primarily through our direct sales force and internationally through a combination of direct sales to service providers and sales through independent resellers. Our direct sales force, distributors and resellers are supported by our highly trained technical staff, which includes application engineers who work closely with service providers to develop technical proposals and design systems to optimize performance and economic benefits to potential customers. Our sales offices outside of the U.S. are located in China, Hong Kong and Korea. International resellers are generally responsible for importing our products and providing certain installation, technical support and other services to customers in their territory. Our marketing organization develops strategies for product lines and market segments, and, in conjunction with our sales force, identifies the evolving technical and application needs of customers so that our product development resources can be deployed to meet anticipated product requirements. Our marketing organization is also responsible for setting price levels, forecasting demand and generally supporting the sales force, particularly at major accounts. We have programs in place to heighten industry awareness of BigBand Networks and our products, including participation in technical conferences, industry initiatives, publication of articles in industry journals and exhibitions at trade-shows. Customer Service and Technical Support We offer our customers a range of support offerings, including program management, training, installation and post-sales technical support. As a part of our pre-sales effort, our engineers design the implementation of our products in our customers’ environments to meet their performance and interoperability requirements. We also offer training classes to assist them in the management of our solutions. Our technical support organization, offers support worldwide 24 hours a day, seven days a week. For our direct customers, we offer tiered customer support programs depending upon the service needs of our customers’ deployments. Using our standard support package, our customers receive telephone support and access to online technical information. Under our enhanced support package, in addition to the standard support offerings, our customers are entitled to software product upgrades and maintenance releases, advanced return materials authorization and on-site support, if necessary. Support contracts typically have a one-year term. For end customers purchasing through resellers, primary product support is provided by our resellers, with escalation support provided by us. Research and Development We focus our research and development efforts on developing new products and systems, and adding new features to existing products and systems. Our development strategy is to identify features, products and systems for both software and hardware that are, or are expected to be, needed by our customers. Our success in designing, developing, manufacturing and selling new or enhanced products depends on a variety of factors, including the identification of market demand for new products, product selection, timely implementation of product design and development, product performance, effective manufacturing and assembly processes and effective sales and marketing. Because our research and development efforts are complex, we may not be able to successfully develop new products, and any new products we develop may not achieve market acceptance. Research and development expense was $46.4 million, $54.0 million and $51.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 12 Table of Contents Intellectual Property As of December 31, 2009, we held 33 issued U.S. patents and had numerous U.S. patent applications pending. Our issued patents will expire between 2019 and 2025. Although we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, licensing arrangements and other measures, there is a risk that any patent, trademark, copyright or other intellectual property right owned by us may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged; that these intellectual property rights may not provide competitive advantages to us; and that any of our pending or future patent applications may not be issued with the scope of the claims sought by us, if at all. Others may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology, duplicate our technology or design around the patents that we own. In addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property protection may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries in which we do business currently or may do business in the future. We generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors and customers, and generally limit access to and distribution of our confidential and proprietary information. Nevertheless, we cannot assure you that the steps taken by us will prevent misappropriation of our technology. In addition, from time to time, legal action by us may be necessary to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. For example, on June 5, 2007, we filed a lawsuit in federal court against Imagine Communications, Inc., alleging patent infringement. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. From time to time, it may be necessary for us to enter into technology development or licensing agreements with third parties. Although many companies are often willing to enter into such technology development or licensing agreements, we may not be able to negotiate these agreements on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Our failure to enter into technology development or licensing agreements, when necessary, could limit our ability to develop and market new products and could cause our business to suffer. Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. In particular, leading companies in the networking industry have extensive patent portfolios. From time to time, third parties, including certain of these leading companies, have asserted and may assert exclusive patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights against us or our customers. Although these third parties may offer a license to their technology, the terms of any offered license may not be acceptable and the failure to obtain a license or the costs associated with any license could cause our business, operating results or financial condition to be materially adversely affected. Manufacturing and Suppliers We outsource the manufacturing of our products. Flextronics Corporation and Benchmark Electronics, Inc. each serves as a sole contract manufacturer for particular lines of our video products. Once our products are manufactured, they are sent to our facility in Southborough, Massachusetts. We believe that outsourcing our manufacturing enables us to conserve capital, better adjust manufacturing volumes to meet changes in demand and more quickly deliver products. We submit purchase orders to our contract manufacturers that describe the type and quantities of our products to be manufactured, the delivery date and other delivery terms. Neither Benchmark nor Flextronics has a written contractual obligation to accept any purchase order that we submit. We and our contract manufacturers purchase many of our components from a sole supplier or a limited group of suppliers. We do not have a written agreement with many of these component suppliers, and we do not require our contract manufacturers to have written agreements with these component manufacturers. As a result, we may not be able to obtain an adequate supply of components on a timely basis. Our reliance on sole or limited suppliers involves several risks, including a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components and reduced control over pricing, quality and timely delivery of components. We monitor the supply of the component parts and the availability of alternative sources. If our supply of any key component is disrupted, we may be unable to deliver 13 Table of Contents our products to our customers on a timely basis, which could result in lost or delayed revenues, injury to our reputation, increased manufacturing costs and exposure to claims by our customers. Even if alternate suppliers are available, we may have difficulty identifying them in a timely manner, we may incur significant additional expense in changing suppliers, and we may experience difficulties or delays in the manufacturing of our products. Our manufacturing operations consist primarily of supply chain managers, new product introduction and test engineering personnel. Our manufacturing organization designs, develops and implements complex test processes to help ensure the quality and reliability of our products. The manufacturing of our products is a complex process, and we may experience production problems or manufacturing delays in the future. Any difficulties we experience in managing relationships with our contract manufacturers, or any interruption in our own or our contract manufacturers operations, could impede our ability to meet our customers’ requirements and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Competition The markets for our products are extremely competitive and are characterized by rapid technological change. The principal competitive factors in our markets include the following: • product performance, features, interoperability and reliability; • technological expertise; • relationships with service providers; • price of products and services and cost of ownership; • sales and distribution capabilities; • customer service and support; • compliance with industry standards and certifications; • size and financial stability of operations; • breadth of product line; • intellectual property portfolio; • ability to scale manufacturing; and • ability to interoperate with other vendors. We believe we compete principally on the performance, features, interoperability and reliability of our products and our technological expertise. Several companies, including companies that are significantly larger and more established, such as Cisco Systems and Motorola, also compete in the markets we target. Many of these larger competitors have substantially broader product offerings and bundle their products or incorporate functionality into existing products in a manner that discourages users from purchasing our products or that may require us to add incremental features and functionality to differentiate our products or lower our prices. Furthermore, many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution, customer support and other resources, as well as better name recognition and access to customers than we do. Conditions in our markets could change rapidly and significantly as a result of technological advancements or continuing market consolidation. The development and market acceptance of alternative technologies could decrease the demand for our products or render them obsolete. Our competitors may introduce products that are less costly, provide superior performance or achieve greater market acceptance than our products. In addition, these larger competitors often have broader product lines and market focus, are in a better position to withstand any significant reduction in capital spending by customers in these markets, and will therefore not be as susceptible to downturns in a particular market. These competitive pressures are likely to continue to adversely impact our business. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future, and competition may harm our business. 14 Table of Contents We believe standards bodies may commoditize the markets in which we compete and would require that we add incremental features and functions to differentiate our products. If the product design or technology of our competitors were to become an industry standard, our business could be seriously harmed. Employees As of December 31, 2009, we had employees as follows: By function: Servicing and manufacturing 90 Research and development 262 Sales and marketing 70 General and administrative 62 Total employees 484 By location: United States 235 Israel 170 Rest of world 79 Total employees 484 We also engage a number of temporary personnel and consultants. None of our employees are represented by a labor union with respect to his or her employment with us. We have not experienced any work stoppages, and we consider our relations with our employees to be good. Our future success will depend upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Competition for qualified personnel remains strong, and we may not be successful in retaining our key employees or attracting skilled personnel. Financial Information About Segments and Geographic Areas For information about revenues and long-lived assets by geographical region, see “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 9 — Segment Reporting” included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We report as a single reporting segment. Additional Information We file registration statements, periodic and current reports, proxy statements, and other materials with the SEC. You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Office of Public Reference at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a web site at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, including our filings. Our Internet address is http://www.bigbandnet.com. We make available, free of charge, through the Investor Relations section of our website, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The contents of our website are not incorporated into, or otherwise to be regarded as part of this Form 10-K. 15 Table of Contents Item 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our equity securities involves significant risks. Any of these risks, as well as other risks not currently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. In assessing the risks described below, you should also refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes, before deciding to purchase any shares of our common stock. We depend on cable multiple system operators (MSOs) and telecommunications companies adopting advanced technologies for substantially all of our net revenues, and any decrease or delay in capital spending for these advanced technologies would harm our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Almost all of our sales depend on cable MSOs and telecommunications companies adopting advanced technologies, and we expect these sales to continue to constitute a significant majority of our sales for the foreseeable future. Demand for our products will depend on the magnitude and timing of capital spending by service providers on advanced technologies for constructing and upgrading their network infrastructure, and a reduction or delay in this spending could have a material adverse effect on our business. The capital spending patterns of our existing and potential customers depend on a variety of factors, including: • annual budget cycles; • overall consumer demand for video services and the acceptance of newly introduced services; • competitive pressures, including pricing pressures; • changes in general economic conditions due to fluctuations in the equity and credit markets or otherwise; • the impact of industry consolidation; • the strategic focus of our customers and potential customers; • technology adoption cycles and network architectures of service providers, and evolving industry standards that may impact them; • the status of federal, local and foreign government regulation of telecommunications and television broadcasting, and regulatory approvals that our customers need to obtain; • discretionary customer spending patterns; • bankruptcies and financial restructurings within the industry; and • work stoppages or other labor- or labor market-related issues that may impact the timing of orders and revenues from our customers. In 2009, we saw reduced capital spending by our customers. Any continued slowdown or delay in the capital spending by service providers as a result of any of the above factors would likely have a significant adverse impact on our quarterly revenue and profitability levels. Our operating results are likely to fluctuate significantly and may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors or our guidance, causing our stock price to decline. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to continue to fluctuate, on an annual and a quarterly basis, as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include: • the level and timing of capital spending by our customers; • the timing, mix and amount of orders, especially from significant customers; • the level of our deferred revenue balances; 16 Table of Contents • changes in market demand for our products; • our mix of products sold; • the mix of software and hardware products sold; • our unpredictable and lengthy sales cycles, which typically range from six to 18 months; • the timing of revenue recognition on sales arrangements, which may include multiple deliverables and result in delays in recognizing revenue; • our ability to design, install and receive customer acceptance of our products; • materially different acceptance criteria in key customers’ agreements, which can result in large amounts of revenue being recognized, or deferred, as the different acceptance criteria are applied to large orders; • new product introductions by our competitors; • market acceptance of new or existing products offered by us or our customers; • competitive market conditions, including pricing actions by our competitors; • our ability to complete complex development of our software and hardware on a timely basis; • unexpected changes in our operating expenses; • the impact of new accounting, income tax and disclosure rules; • the cost and availability of components used in our products; • the potential loss of key manufacturer and supplier relationships; and • changes in domestic and international regulatory environments. We establish our expenditure levels for product development and other operating expenses based on projected sales levels, and our expenses are relatively fixed in the short term. Accordingly, variations in the timing of our sales can cause significant fluctuations in our operating results. As a result of all these factors, our operating results in one or more future periods may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors or our guidance, which would likely cause the trading price of our common stock to decline substantially. Our customer base is highly concentrated, and there are a limited number of potential customers for our products. The loss of any of our key customers would likely reduce our revenues significantly. Historically, a large portion of our sales have been to a limited number of large customers. Our five largest customers accounted for approximately 78% of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to 81% for the year ended December 31, 2008. Charter Communications, Time Warner Cable and Verizon each represented 10% or more of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009. Cox Communications, Time Warner Cable and Verizon each represented 10% or more of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008. We believe that for the foreseeable future our net revenues will be concentrated in a limited number of large customers. We anticipate that a large portion of our revenues will continue to depend on sales to a limited number of customers, and we do not have contracts or other agreements that guarantee continued sales to these or any other customers. Consequently, reduced capital expenditures by any one of our larger customers (whether caused by adverse financial conditions, more cautious spending patterns due to the ongoing economic uncertainty or other factors) is likely to have a material negative impact on our operating results. In addition, as the consolidation of ownership of cable MSOs and telecommunications companies continues, we may lose existing customers and have access to a shrinking pool of potential customers. We expect to see continuing industry consolidation due to the significant capital costs of constructing video, voice and data networks and for other reasons. Further business combinations may occur in our customer base, which will likely result in our customers gaining increased purchasing leverage over us. This may reduce the selling prices of our products and services and as a result may harm our business and financial results. Many of our customers desire to have two sources for the products we sell to 17 Table of Contents them. As a result, our future revenue opportunities could be limited, and our profitability could be adversely impacted. The loss of, or reduction in orders from, any of our key customers would significantly reduce our revenues and have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. If revenues forecasted for a particular period are not realized in such period due to the lengthy, complex and unpredictable sales cycles of our products, our operating results for that or subsequent periods will be harmed. The sales cycles of our products are typically lengthy, complex and unpredictable and usually involve: • a significant technical evaluation period; • a significant commitment of capital and other resources by service providers; • substantial time required to engineer the deployment of new technologies for new video services; • substantial testing and acceptance of new technologies that affect key operations; and • substantial test marketing of new services with subscribers. For these and other reasons, our sales cycles generally have been between six and 18 months, but can last longer. If orders forecasted for a specific customer for a particular quarter do not occur in that quarter, our operating results for that quarter or subsequent quarters could be substantially lower than anticipated. Our quarterly and annual results may fluctuate significantly due to revenue recognition rules and the timing of the receipt of customer orders. Additionally, we derive a large portion of our net revenues from sales that include the network design, installation and integration of equipment, including equipment acquired from third parties to be integrated with our products to the specifications of our customers. We base our revenue forecasts on the estimated timing to complete the network design, installation and integration of our customer projects and customer acceptance of those products. The systems of our customers are both diverse and complex, and our ability to configure, test and integrate our systems with other elements of our customers’ networks depends on technologies provided to our customers by third parties. As a result, the timing of our revenue related to the implementation of our solutions in these complex networks is difficult to predict and could result in lower than expected revenue in any particular quarter. Similarly, our ability to deploy our equipment in a timely fashion can be subject to a number of other risks, including the availability of skilled engineering and technical personnel, the availability of equipment produced by third parties and our customers’ need to obtain regulatory approvals. The markets in which we operate are intensely competitive, many of our competitors are larger, more established and better capitalized than we are, and some of our competitors have integrated products performing functions similar to our products into their existing network infrastructure offerings, and consequently our existing and potential customers may decide against using our products in their networks, which would harm our business. The markets for selling network-based hardware and software products to service providers are extremely competitive and have been characterized by rapid technological change. We compete broadly with system suppliers including ARRIS Group, Cisco Systems, Harmonic, Motorola, SeaChange International and a number of smaller companies. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have. Given their capital resources, long-standing relationships with service providers worldwide, and broader product lines, many of these large organizations are in a better position to withstand any significant reduction in capital spending by customers in these markets. If we are unable to overcome these resource advantages, our competitive position would suffer. In addition, other providers of network-based hardware and software products offer functionality aimed at solving similar problems addressed by our products. For example, several vendors have announced products designed to compete with our Switched Digital Video solution. The inclusion of functionality perceived to be similar to our product offerings in our competitors’ products that already have been accepted as necessary components of network architecture may have an adverse effect on our ability to market and sell our products. In addition, our customers’ other vendors that can provide a broader product offering may be able to offer pricing or other concessions that we are not able to match because we currently offer a more modest suite of products and have 18 Table of Contents fewer resources. If our existing or potential customers are reluctant to add network infrastructure from new vendors or otherwise decide to work with their other existing vendors, our business, operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected. In recent years, we have seen consolidation among our competitors, such as Cisco’s acquisition of Scientific Atlanta, Motorola’s acquisition of Terayon, and purchases of Video on Demand, or VOD, solutions by each of ARRIS Group, Cisco, Harmonic and Motorola. In addition, some of our competitors have entered into strategic relationships with one another to offer a more comprehensive solution than would be available individually. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or maintain their market positions in the evolving industry for video by increasing the amount of commercial and technical integration of their video products. Due to our comparatively small size and comparatively narrow product offerings, our ability to compete will depend on our ability to partner with companies to offer a more complete overall solution. If we fail to do so, our competitive position will be harmed and our sales will likely suffer. These combined companies may offer more compelling product offerings and may be able to offer greater pricing flexibility, making it more difficult for us to compete while sustaining acceptable gross margins. Finally, continued industry consolidation may impact customers’ perceptions of the viability of smaller companies, which may affect their willingness to purchase products from us. These competitive pressures could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We have been unable to achieve sustained profitability, which could harm the price of our stock. Historically, we have experienced significant operating losses and we were not profitable in the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2009. If we fail to achieve or sustain profitability in the future, it will harm our long-term business and we may not meet the expectations of the investment community, which would have a material adverse impact on our stock price. We may not accurately anticipate the timing of the market needs for our products and develop such products at the appropriate times at significant research and development expense, or we may not gain market acceptance of our several emerging video services and/or adoption of new network architectures and technologies, any of which could harm our operating results and financial condition. Accurately forecasting and meeting our customers’ requirements is critical to the success of our business. Forecasting to meet customers’ needs is particularly difficult for newer products and products under development. Our ability to meet customer demand depends on our ability to configure our solutions to the complex architectures that our customers have developed, the availability of components and other materials and the ability of our contract manufacturers to scale their production of our products. Our ability to meet customer requirements depends on our ability to obtain sufficient volumes of required components and materials in a timely fashion. If we fail to meet customers’ supply expectations, our net revenues will be adversely affected, and we will likely lose business. In addition, our priorities for future product development are based on how we expect the market for video services to develop in the U.S. and in international markets. Future demand for our products will depend significantly on the growing market acceptance of several emerging video services including HDTV, addressable advertising, video delivered over telecommunications company networks and video delivered over Internet Protocol by cable MSOs. The effective delivery of these services will depend on service providers developing and building new network architectures to deliver them. If the introduction or adoption of these services or the deployment of these networks is not as widespread or as rapid as we or our customers expect, our revenue opportunities will be limited. Our product development efforts require substantial research and development expense, as we develop new technology, including BigBand MSP2000 and technology primarily related to the delivery of video over IP networks. In addition, as many of our products are new solutions, there is a risk of delays in delivery of these solutions. Our research and development expense was $46.4 million for 2009, and there can be no assurance that we will achieve an acceptable return on our research and development efforts, and no assurance that we will be able to deliver our solutions in time to achieve market acceptance. Additionally, our customers are adopting new technologies, standards and formats. In particular, service providers are transitioning from delivering video via radio frequency, which has historically represented a large 19 Table of Contents majority of our revenues, to delivering video over IP. While we are in the process of developing products based this and other new formats in order to remain competitive, we do not have such products at this time and cannot be certain when, if at all, we will have products in support of such new formats. Our ability to grow will depend significantly on our delivery of products that help enable telecommunications companies to provide video services. If the demand for video services from telecommunications companies does not materialize or if these service providers find alternative methods of delivering video services, future sales of our Video products will suffer. Prior to 2006, our sales were primarily to cable MSOs. Since 2006, we have generated significant revenues from telecommunications companies, though our revenues from these customers declined for 2009 compared to 2008. This decline was primarily attributable to our largest Telco customer slowing the purchase of our solutions. Our ability to grow will depend on our selling video products to telecommunications companies. Although a number of our existing products are being deployed in telecom networks, we will need to devote considerable resources to obtain orders, qualify our products and hire knowledgeable personnel to address telecommunications company customers, each of which will require significant time and financial commitment. These efforts may not be successful in the near future, or at all. If technological advancements allow these telecommunications companies to provide video services without upgrading their current system infrastructure or provide them a more cost-effective method of delivering video services than our products, projected sales of our Video products will suffer. Even if these providers choose our Video solutions, they may not be successful in marketing video services to their customers, in which case additional sales of our products would likely be limited. Selling successfully to telecommunication companies will be a significant challenge for us. Several of our largest competitors have mature customer relationships with many of the largest telecommunications companies, while we have limited recent experience with sales and marketing efforts designed to reach these potential customers. In addition, telecommunications companies face specific network architecture and legacy technology issues that we have only limited expertise in addressing. If we fail to penetrate the telecommunications market successfully, our growth in revenues and our operating results would likely be adversely impacted. We anticipate that our gross margins will fluctuate with changes in our product mix and expected decreases in the average selling prices of our hardware and software products, which will adversely impact our operating results. In 2009, we experienced some decline in our product gross margins. We expect the decline in gross margins to continue in 2010. It is unlikely we will be able to maintain these high margins in future periods. Our industry has historically experienced a decrease in average selling prices. We anticipate that the average selling prices of our products will continue to decrease in the future in response to competitive pricing pressures, increased sales discounts and new product introductions by our competitors. We may experience substantial decreases in future operating results due to a decrease of our average selling prices. For example, our master agreement with Verizon provides for contractually-negotiated annual price reductions. Additionally, our failure to develop and introduce new products on a timely basis would likely contribute to a decline in our gross margins, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and cause the price of our common stock to decline. We also anticipate that our gross margins will fluctuate from period to period as a result of the mix of products we sell in any given period. If our sales of lower margin products significantly expand in future quarterly periods, our overall gross margin levels and operating results would be adversely impacted. Lower deferred revenue balances will make future period results less predictable. Historically, we have had relatively high deferred revenue balances at quarter end, which has provided us with some measure of predictability for future periods. As of December 31, 2009, our deferred revenue balance was lower than both December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007. This lower deferred revenue balance makes our quarterly revenue more dependent on orders both received and shipped within the same quarter, and therefore less predictable. This lack of deferred revenues could cause additional revenue volatility and harm our stock price. 20 Table of Contents Continued weak general economic conditions may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and make our future business more difficult to forecast and manage. Our business is sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, both in the U.S. and globally. Due to the continued tight credit markets and concerns regarding the availability of credit, our current or potential customers may delay or reduce purchases of our products, which would adversely affect our revenues and therefore harm our business and results of operations. More generally, we are unable to predict how deep the current economic uncertainty will last. There can be no assurances that government responses to the recession will restore confidence in the U.S. and global economies. We expect our business to be adversely impacted by any significant or prolonged weakness in the U.S. or global economies as our customers’ capital spending is expected to be reduced during an economic downturn. The uncertainty regarding the U.S. and global economies also has made it more difficult for us to forecast and manage our business. Our efforts to develop additional channels to market and sell our products internationally may not succeed. Our video solutions traditionally have been sold directly to large cable MSOs with recent sales directly to telecommunications companies. To date, we have not focused on smaller service providers and have had only limited access to service providers in certain international markets, including Asia and Europe. Although we intend to establish strategic relationships with leading distributors worldwide in an attempt to reach new customers, we may not succeed in establishing these relationships. Even if we do establish these relationships, the distributors may not succeed in marketing our products to their customers. Some of our competitors have established long-standing relationships with cable MSOs and telecommunications companies that may limit our and our distributors’ ability to sell our products to those customers. Even if we were to sell our products to those customers, it would likely not be based on long-term commitments, and those customers would be able to terminate their relationships with us at any time without significant penalties. International sales represented $15.7 million of our net revenues for 2009 compared to $15.9 million for 2008. Our international sales depend on our development of indirect sales channels in Europe and Asia through distributor and reseller arrangements with third parties. However, we may not be able to successfully enter into additional reseller and/or distribution agreements and/or may not be able to successfully manage our product sales channels. In addition, many of our resellers also sell products from other vendors that compete with our products and may choose to focus on products of those vendors. Additionally, our ability to utilize an indirect sales model in these international markets will depend on our ability to qualify and train those resellers to perform product installations and to provide customer support. If we fail to develop and cultivate relationships with significant resellers, or if these resellers do not succeed in their sales efforts (whether because they are unable to provide support or otherwise), we may be unable to grow or sustain our revenue in international markets. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our financial results and cash flows. Because a substantial portion of our employee base is located in Israel, we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the Israeli New Shekel. These fluctuations could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. A decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could increase our operating expenses and the cost of raw materials to the extent we must purchase components or pay employees in foreign currencies. Currently, we hedge a portion of our anticipated future expenses and certain assets and liabilities denominated in the Israeli New Shekel. The hedging activities we undertake are intended to partially offset the impact of currency fluctuations. As our hedging program is relatively short-term in nature, a material long-term change in the value of the U.S. dollar versus the Israeli New Shekel could increase our operating expenses in the future. 21 Table of Contents Our products must interoperate with many software applications and hardware found in our customers’ networks. If we are unable to ensure that our products interoperate properly, our business would be harmed. Our products must interoperate with our customers’ existing networks, which often have varied and complex specifications, utilize multiple protocol standards, software applications and products from multiple vendors, and contain multiple generations of products that have been added over time. As a result, we must continually ensure that our products interoperate properly with these existing networks. To meet these requirements, we must undertake development efforts that require substantial capital investment and employee resources. We may not accomplish these development efforts quickly or cost-effectively, if at all. For example, our products currently interoperate with set-top boxes marketed by vendors such as Cisco Systems and Motorola and with VOD servers marketed by ARRIS Group and SeaChange. If we fail to maintain compatibility with these set-top boxes, VOD servers or other software or equipment found in our customers’ existing networks, we may face substantially reduced demand for our products, which would adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We have entered into interoperability arrangements with a number of equipment and software vendors for the use or integration of their technology with our products. In these cases, the arrangements give us access to and enable interoperability with various products in the digital video market that we do not otherwise offer. If these relationships fail, we will have to devote substantially more resources to the development of alternative products and the support of our products, and our efforts may not be as effective as the combined solutions with our current partners. In many cases, these parties are either companies with which we compete directly in other areas, such as Motorola, or companies that have extensive relationships with our existing and potential customers and may have influence over the purchasing decisions of these customers. A number of our competitors have stronger relationships with some of our existing and potential partners and, as a result, our ability to successfully partner with these companies may be harmed. Our failure to establish or maintain key relationships with third party equipment and software vendors may harm our ability to successfully sell and market our products. We are currently investing, and plan to continue to invest, significant resources to develop these relationships. Our operating results could be adversely affected if these efforts do not generate the revenues necessary to offset this investment. In addition, if we find errors in the existing software or defects in the hardware used in our customers’ networks or problematic network configurations or settings, as we have in the past, we may have to modify our software or hardware so that our products will interoperate with our customers’ networks. This could cause longer installation times for our products and could cause order cancellations, either of which would adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our ability to sell our products is highly dependent on the quality of our support and services offerings, and our failure to offer high-quality support and services would have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. Once our products are deployed within our customers’ networks, our customers depend on our support organization to resolve any issues relating to our products. If we or our channel partners do not effectively assist our customers in deploying our products, or succeed in helping our customers quickly resolve post-deployment issues and provide effective ongoing support, our ability to sell our products to existing customers would be adversely affected and our reputation with potential customers could be harmed. In addition, as we expand our operations internationally, our support organization will face additional challenges including those associated with delivering support, training and documentation in languages other than English. Our failure to maintain high-quality support and services would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If we fail to comply with new laws and regulations, or changing interpretations of existing laws or regulations, our future revenues could be adversely affected. Our products are subject to various legal and regulatory requirements and changes. For example, effective June 12, 2009, federal law required that television broadcast stations stop broadcasting in analog format and broadcast only in digital format. This change may have accelerated the timing of sales of our digital products, and consequently the revenue associated with our broadcast solutions may not continue at recent levels, which could 22 Table of Contents disappoint our investors causing our stock price to fall. These and other similar implementations of laws and interpretations of existing regulations could cause our customers to forgo or change the timing of spending on new technology rollouts, such as switched digital video, which could make our results more difficult to predict, or harm our revenues. Additionally, governments in the U.S. and other countries have adopted laws and regulations regarding privacy and advertising that could impact important aspects of our business. In particular, governments are considering new limits or requirements with respect to our customers’ collection, use, storage and disclosure of personal information for marketing purposes. Any legislation enacted or regulation issued could dampen the growth and acceptance of addressable advertising which is enabled by our products. If the use of our products to increase advertising revenue is limited or becomes unlawful, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. Our expansion of international operations or reliance on operations of contract manufacturers or developers may not succeed. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 79% of our research and development headcount is located outside the U.S., primarily in Israel and increasingly in China. Managing research and development operations in numerous locations requires substantial management oversight. If we are unable to expand our international operations successfully and in a timely manner, our business, operating results and financial condition may be harmed. Such expansion may be more difficult or take longer than we anticipate, and we may not be able to successfully market, sell, deliver and support our products internationally. Our international operations, and the international operations of our contract manufacturers and our outsourced development contractors, are subject to a number of risks, including: • continued uncertainty in the global economy; • fluctuations in the value of local currencies in the markets we are attempting to penetrate may adversely affect the price competitiveness of our products; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates, primarily fluctuations in the Israeli New Shekel, may have an adverse effect on our operating costs; • political and economic instability; • unpredictable changes in foreign government regulations and telecommunications standards; • legal, cultural and language differences in the conduct of business; • import and export license requirements, tariffs, taxes and other trade barriers; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • the burden of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws, treaties and technical standards; • acts of war or terrorism and insurrections; • difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; and • changes in economic policies by foreign governments. The effects of any of the risks described above could reduce our future revenues or increase our costs from our international operations. Regional instability in Israel may adversely affect business conditions and may disrupt our operations and negatively affect our operating results. A substantial portion of our research and development operations and our contract manufacturing occurs in Israel. As of December 31, 2009, we had 170 full-time employees located in Israel. We also have customer service, marketing and general and administrative employees at this facility. Accordingly, we are directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel, and any major hostilities, such as the hostilities in 23 Table of Contents Lebanon in 2006 and in Gaza in 2008, involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners could significantly harm our business. The September 2001 terrorist attacks, the ongoing U.S. war on terrorism and the history of terrorist attacks and hostilities within Israel have heightened the risks of conducting business in Israel. In addition, Israel and companies doing business with Israel have, in the past, been the subject of an economic boycott. Israel has also been and is subject to civil unrest and terrorist activity, with varying levels of severity, since September 2000. Security and political conditions may have an adverse impact on our business in the future. Hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners could adversely affect our operations and make it more difficult for us to retain or recruit qualified personnel in Israel. In addition, most of our employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israeli Defense Forces and several were called for active military duty in connection with the hostilities in Lebanon in 2006 and in Gaza in 2008. Should hostilities in the region escalate again, some of our employees would likely be called to active military duty, possibly resulting in interruptions in our sales and development efforts and other impacts on our business and operations, which we cannot currently assess. We depend on a limited number of third parties to provide key components of, and to provide manufacturing and assembly services with respect to, our products. We and our contract manufacturers obtain many components necessary for the manufacture or integration of our products from a sole supplier or a limited group of suppliers. We or our contract manufacturers do not always have long-term agreements in place with such suppliers. As an example, we do not have a long-term purchase agreement in place with PowerOne, the sole supplier of power supplies for our products. Our direct and indirect reliance on sole or limited suppliers involves several risks, including the inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components, and reduced control over pricing, quality and timely delivery of components. Our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis to our customers would be materially adversely impacted if we or our contract manufacturers needed to find alternative replacements for (as examples) the chassis, chipsets, central processing units or power supplies that we use in our products. Significant time and effort would be required to locate new vendors for these alternative components, if alternatives are even available. Moreover, the lead times required by the suppliers of some components are lengthy and preclude rapid changes in quantity requirements and delivery schedules. Even as we increase our use of standardized components, we may experience supply chain issues, particularly as a result of market volatility. Such volatility could lead suppliers to decrease inventory, which in turn would lead to increased manufacturing lead time for us. In addition, increased demand by third parties for the components we use in our products (for example, Field Programmable Gate Arrays or other semiconductor technology) may lead to decreased availability and higher prices for those components from our suppliers, since we carry little inventory of our products and product components. As a result, we may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build products in a timely manner, which would impact our ability to deliver products to our customers, and our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. For manufacturing and assembly, we currently rely exclusively on a number of suppliers including Flextronics or Benchmark, depending on the product, to assemble our products, manage our supply chain and negotiate component costs for our solutions. Our reliance on these contract manufacturers reduces our control over the assembly process, exposing us to risks, including reduced control over quality assurance, production costs and product supply. If we fail to manage our relationships with these contract manufacturers effectively, or if these contract manufacturers experience delays (including delays in their ability to purchase components, as noted above), disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in their operations, our ability to ship products to our customers could be impaired and our competitive position and reputation could be harmed. If these contract manufacturers are unable to negotiate with their suppliers for reduced component costs, our operating results would be harmed. Qualifying a new contract manufacturer and commencing volume production is expensive and time-consuming. If we are required to change contract manufacturers, we may lose net revenues, incur increased costs and damage our customer relationships. 24 Table of Contents We must manage our business effectively even if our infrastructure, management and resources might be strained due to our expense reduction efforts and recent officer departures. In the past several years, we have undertaken several reductions in force, experienced a number of changes in our executive management and other cost reduction measures. Effectively managing our business with reduced headcount and expenses in some areas will likely place increased strain on our resources. For example, we may need to hire additional development and customer support personnel. In addition, we may need to expand and otherwise improve our internal systems, including our management information systems, customer relationship and support systems, and operating, administrative and financial systems and controls. These efforts may require us to make significant capital expenditures or incur significant expenses, and divert the attention of management, sales, support and finance personnel from our core business operations, which may adversely affect our financial performance in future periods. Moreover, to the extent we grow in the future, such growth will result in increased responsibilities for our management personnel. Managing any future growth will require substantial resources that we may not have or otherwise be able to obtain. In March 2010, we announced the departures of three officers, including our chief operating officer and our chief financial officer. Although we announced the appointment of a new chief financial officer, we are uncertain when or if we will replace our chief operating officer and his duties will initially be performed by other officers. We have taken actions to reduce the risk of any disruption in our business due to these departures including retaining our departing chief operating officer and chief financial officer as consultants for a period of time. However, the departure of these officers will place additional strain on our existing team and there can be no assurance that the departure of these officers will not disrupt our business operations, customer relationships or other matters. Our failure to adequately protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, or to secure such rights on reasonable terms, may adversely affect us. We hold numerous issued U.S. patents and have a number of patent applications pending in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. Although we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through patents, copyrights, trademarks, licensing arrangements, maintaining certain technology as trade secrets and other measures, we cannot be sure that any patent, trademark, copyright or other intellectual property rights owned by us will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged, that such intellectual property rights will provide competitive advantages to us or that any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued with the scope of the claims sought by us, if at all. Despite our efforts, other competitors may be able to develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology, duplicate our technology to the extent it is not protected, or design around the patents that we own. In addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries in which we do business or may do business in the future. The steps that we have taken may not prevent misappropriation of our technology. In addition, to prevent misappropriation we may need to take legal action to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. For example, on June 5, 2007, we filed a lawsuit in federal court against Imagine Communications, Inc., alleging patent infringement. This and other potential intellectual property litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In order to successfully develop and market certain of our planned products, we may be required to enter into technology development or licensing agreements with third parties whether to avoid infringement or because we believe a specific functionality is necessary for a successful product launch. These third parties may be willing to enter into technology development or licensing agreements only on a costly royalty basis or on terms unacceptable to us, or not at all. Our failure to enter into technology development or licensing agreements on reasonable terms, when necessary, could limit our ability to develop and market new products and could cause our business to suffer. For example, we could face delays in product releases until alternative technology can be identified, licensed or developed, and integrated into our current products. These delays, if they occur, could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 25 Table of Contents We may face intellectual property infringement claims from third parties. Our industry is characterized by the existence of an extensive number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. From time to time, third parties have asserted and may assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights against us or our customers. Our suppliers and customers may have similar claims asserted against them. We have agreed to indemnify some of our suppliers and customers for alleged patent infringement. The scope of this indemnity varies, but, in some instances, includes indemnification for damages and expenses including reasonable attorneys’ fees. Any future litigation, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial expense and significant diversion of the efforts of our management and technical personnel. An adverse determination in any such proceeding could subject us to significant liabilities, temporary or permanent injunctions or require us to seek licenses from third parties or pay royalties that may be substantial. Furthermore, necessary licenses may not be available on satisfactory terms, or at all. Our use of open source and third-party software could impose limitations on our ability to commercialize our products. We incorporate open source software into our products, including certain open source code which is governed by the GNU General Public License, Lesser GNU General Public License and Common Development and Distribution License. The terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by U.S. courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. In such event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our products, make generally available, in source code form, proprietary code that links to certain open source modules, re-engineer our products, discontinue the sale of our products if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a cost-effective and timely basis, or become subject to other consequences, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business is subject to the risks of warranty returns, product liability and product defects. Products like ours are very complex and can frequently contain undetected errors or failures, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. Despite testing, errors may occur. Product errors could affect the performance of our products, delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products, adversely affect our reputation and our customers’ willingness to buy products from us and adversely affect market acceptance or perception of our products. Any such errors or delays in releasing new products or new versions of products or allegations of unsatisfactory performance could cause us to lose revenue or market share, increase our service costs, cause us to incur substantial costs in redesigning the products, subject us to liability for damages and divert our resources from other tasks, any one of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our products must successfully interoperate with products from other vendors. As a result, when problems occur in a network, it may be difficult to identify the sources of these problems. The occurrence of hardware and software errors, whether or not caused by our products, could result in the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products, and therefore delay our ability to recognize revenue from sales, and any necessary revisions may cause us to incur significant expenses. The occurrence of any such problems could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Although we have limitation of liability provisions in our standard terms and conditions of sale, they may not fully or effectively protect us from claims as a result of federal, state or local laws or ordinances or unfavorable judicial decisions in the U.S. or other countries. The sale and support of our products also entails the risk of product liability claims. We maintain insurance to protect against certain claims associated with the use of our products, but our insurance coverage may not adequately cover any claim asserted against us. In addition, even claims that ultimately are unsuccessful could result in our expenditure of funds in litigation and divert management’s time and other resources. 26 Table of Contents We may engage in future acquisitions that dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders, cause us to use a significant portion of our cash, incur debt or assume contingent liabilities. As part of our business strategy, from time to time, we review potential acquisitions of other businesses, and we may acquire businesses, products, or technologies in the future. In the event of any future acquisitions, we could: • issue equity securities which would dilute our current stockholders’ percentage ownership; • incur substantial debt; • assume contingent liabilities; or • spend significant cash. These actions could harm our business, operating results and financial condition, or the price of our common stock. Moreover, even if we do obtain benefits from acquisitions in the form of increased sales and earnings, there may be a delay between the time when the expenses associated with an acquisition are incurred and the time when we recognize such benefits. This is particularly relevant in cases where it is necessary to integrate new types of technology into our existing portfolio and where new types of products may be targeted for potential customers with which we do not have pre-existing relationships. Acquisitions and investment activities also entail numerous risks, including: • difficulties in the assimilation of acquired operations, technologies and/or products; • unanticipated acquisition transaction costs; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; • the potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses; • difficulties in the assimilation of different corporate cultures and practices; and • substantial charges for the amortization of certain purchased intangible assets, deferred stock compensation or similar items. We may not be able to successfully integrate any businesses, products, technologies or personnel that we might acquire in the future, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Negative conditions in the global credit markets may impair the value or reduce the liquidity of a portion of our investment portfolio. As of December 31, 2009, we had $24.9 million in cash and cash equivalents and $147.0 million in investments in marketable debt securities. Historically, we have invested these amounts primarily in government agency debt securities, corporate debt securities, commercial paper, auction rate securities, money market funds and taxable municipal debt securities meeting certain criteria. We currently hold no mortgaged-backed or auction rate securities. However, some of our investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by the ongoing uncertainty in the U.S. and global credit markets that have affected various sectors of the financial markets and caused global credit and liquidity issues. In the future, these market risks associated with our investment portfolio may harm the results of our operations, liquidity and financial condition. Although we believe we have chosen a more cautious portfolio designed to preserve our existing cash position, it may not adequately protect the value of our investments. Furthermore, this more cautious portfolio is unlikely to provide us with any significant interest income in the near term. 27 Table of Contents If we do not adequately manage and evolve our financial reporting and managerial systems and processes, our operating results and financial condition may be harmed. Our ability to successfully implement our business plan and comply with regulations applicable to being a public reporting company requires an effective planning and management process. We expect that we will need to continue to improve existing, and implement new, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls to manage our business effectively in the future. Any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, could harm our ability to accurately forecast sales demand, manage our supply chain and record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. In addition, the successful enhancement of our operational and financial systems, procedures and controls will result in higher general and administrative costs in future periods, and may adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. While we believe that we currently have proper and effective internal control over financial reporting, we must continue to comply with laws requiring us to evaluate those internal controls. We are required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The provisions of the act require, among other things, that we evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place to help produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort. For example, our accounting for income taxes requires considerable, specific knowledge of various tax acts, both foreign and domestic, and also involves several subjective judgments that could lead to fluctuations in our results of operations should some or all events not occur as anticipated. We incur significant costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with these laws and regulations affecting us as a public company. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls in future periods, it could adversely affect our ability to run our business effectively and could cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting. We are subject to import/export controls that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in international markets. Our products are subject to U.S. export controls and may be exported outside the U.S. only with the required level of export license or through an export license exception, in most cases because we incorporate encryption technology into our products. In addition, various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products or could limit our customers’ ability to implement our products in those countries. Changes in our products or changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products throughout their global systems or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries altogether. Any change in export or import regulations or related legislation, shift in approach to the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential customers internationally. In addition, we may be subject to customs duties and export quotas, which could have a significant impact on our revenue and profitability. While we have not yet encountered significant regulatory difficulties in connection with the sales of our products in international markets, the future imposition of significant customs duties or export quotas could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fire, floods and other natural catastrophic events, and to interruption by manmade problems such as computer viruses or terrorism. Our corporate headquarters is located in the San Francisco Bay area, a region known for seismic activity. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire or a flood, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, our computer servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. In addition, acts of terrorism or war or public health outbreaks could cause disruptions in our or our customers’ business or the 28 Table of Contents economy as a whole. To the extent that such disruptions result in delays or cancellations of customer orders, or the deployment of our products, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 