D. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition and results of operations can be affected materially and adversely by any of the following risk factors. Risks Relating to Our Business and Operations Our operating history may not serve as an adequate basis to judge our future operating results and prospects. We have significant projects in various phases of development and therefore are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Our business operating history is shorter than some of our global competitors and therefore may not serve as an adequate basis for your evaluation of our business and prospects. City of Dreams, which contributed 80.1% of our total net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014, commenced operations on June 1, 2009 and the site is still under ongoing development. City of Dreams Manila recently commenced its operations in December 2014. In addition, we have significant projects, such as Studio City and the fifth hotel tower and retail precinct at City of Dreams, which are in various phases of design or development and will not generate any revenue until their openings. We will face certain risks, expenses and challenges in operating gaming businesses in an intensely competitive market. Some of the risks relate to our ability to: • fulfill conditions precedent to draw down or roll over funds from current and future credit facilities; • comply with covenants under our debt issuances and credit facilities; • raise additional capital, as required; • respond to changing financing requirements; • operate, support, expand and develop our operations and our facilities; • attract and retain customers and qualified employees; • maintain effective control of our operating costs and expenses; • maintain internal personnel, systems, controls and procedures to assure compliance with the extensive regulatory requirements applicable to the gaming business as well as regulatory compliance as a public company; • respond to competitive and/or deteriorating market conditions; • respond to changes in our regulatory environment and government policy; • identify suitable locations and enter into new leases or right to use agreements for new Mocha Clubs; and • renew or extend lease agreements or right to use agreements for existing Mocha Clubs. If we are unable to complete any of these tasks, we may be unable to operate our businesses in the manner we contemplate and generate revenues from such projects in the amounts and by the times we anticipate. We may also be unable to meet the conditions to draw on our existing or future financing facilities in order to fund various activities or may result in a default under our existing or future financing facilities. If any of these events were to occur, it would cause a material adverse effect on our business and prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We generate a substantial portion of our cash flow from our properties in Macau and the Philippines and, as a result, are subject to greater risks than a gaming company which operates in more geographical regions. We primarily depend on our properties in Macau and City of Dreams Manila, which commenced operations in December 2014, for our cash flow. Given that our operations are and will be conducted based on 13 Table of Contents our principal properties in Macau and one property in Manila, we are and will be subject to greater risks resulting from limited diversification of our businesses and sources of revenues as compared to gaming companies with more operating properties in various geographic regions. These risks include: • dependence on the gaming and leisure market in Macau, China and the Philippines and limited diversification of businesses and sources of revenues; • a decline in market, economic, competitive and political conditions in Macau, China, the Philippines or generally in Asia; • inaccessibility to Macau or the Philippines due to inclement weather, road construction or closure of primary access routes; • a decline in air or ferry passenger traffic to Macau or the Philippines due to fears concerning travel or otherwise; • travel restrictions to Macau imposed now or in the future by China; • changes in Macau, China and Philippine governmental laws and regulations, or interpretations thereof, including gaming laws and regulations, such as China travel and visa policies, anti-smoking legislation as well as gaming table allocation policies in Macau; • natural and other disasters, including typhoons, earthquakes, outbreaks of infectious diseases or terrorism, affecting Macau or the Philippines; • lower rate of increase in the number of visitors to Macau or the Philippines than expected; • relaxation of regulations on gaming laws in other regional economies that would compete with the Macau and the Philippine markets; • a decrease in gaming activities at our properties; and • government restrictions on growth of gaming markets in the form of table cap or otherwise. Any of these conditions or events could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. All our current and future construction projects will be subject to significant development and construction risks, which could have a material adverse impact on related project timetables, costs and our ability to complete the projects. All our current projects, including Studio City, and future construction projects will be subject to a number of risks, including: • changes to plans and specifications; • engineering problems, including defective plans and specifications; • shortages of, and price increases in, energy, materials and skilled and unskilled labor, and inflation in key supply markets; • delays in obtaining or inability to obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals; • lack of sufficient, or delays in availability of, financing; • changes in laws and regulations, or in the interpretation and enforcement of laws and regulations, applicable to gaming, leisure, residential, real estate development or construction projects; • labor disputes or work stoppages; 14 Table of Contents • shortage of qualified contractors and suppliers or inability to enter into definitive contracts with contractors with sufficient skills, financial resources and experience on commercially reasonable terms, or at all; • disputes with and defaults by contractors and subcontractors; • personal injuries to workers and other persons; • environmental, health and safety issues, including site accidents and the spread of viruses; • weather interferences or delays; • fires, typhoons and other natural disasters; • geological, construction, excavation, regulatory and equipment problems; and • other unanticipated circumstances or cost increases. The occurrence of any of these development or construction risks could increase the total costs, delay or prevent the construction or opening or otherwise affect the design and features of any future construction projects which we might undertake. We cannot guarantee that our construction costs or total project costs for future projects will not increase beyond amounts initially budgeted. We could encounter substantial cost increases or delays in the development of our projects, which could prevent or delay the opening of such projects. We have certain projects under development or intended to be developed pursuant to our expansion plan. The completion of these projects is subject to a number of contingencies, such as those mentioned above in the risk factor on development and construction risks including, in particular, adverse developments in applicable legislation, delays or failures in obtaining necessary government licenses, permits or approvals. The occurrence of any of these developments could increase the total costs or delay or prevent the construction or opening of new projects, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also require additional financing to develop our projects. Our ability to obtain such financing depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including market conditions, investors’ and lenders’ perceptions of, and demand for, debt and equity securities of gaming companies, credit availability and interest rates. There is no assurance that the actual construction costs related to our projects will not exceed the costs we have projected and budgeted. In addition, construction costs, particularly labor costs, are increasing in Macau and the Philippines and we believe that they are likely to continue to increase due to the significant increase in building activity and the ongoing labor shortage in Macau and the Philippines. In addition, immigration and labor regulations in Macau may limit or restrict our contractors’ ability to obtain sufficient laborers from China to make up for any gaps in available labor in Macau and help reduce construction costs. Continuing increases in construction costs in Macau or the Philippines will increase the risk that construction will not be completed on time, within budget or at all, which could materially and adversely affect our business, cash flow, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The main construction contractor that we have engaged for Studio City may not have sufficient financial resources to fund cost overruns for which it is contractually responsible, which may result in delays in completing the construction of Studio City and subject us to other risks. We cannot assure you that the main construction contractor that we have engaged for Studio City will have sufficient financial resources to fund any cost overruns for which they are responsible under the main construction contract. If our main construction contractor does not have the resources to meet its obligations or we are unable to obtain sufficient funds under the performance and payment bonds or other insurance posted by the contractors in a timely manner, we may incur increased costs for the construction of Studio City. This may 15 Table of Contents require us to raise additional funding, which may not be available on satisfactory terms or at all. Any such additional funding, if available, may not be permitted under the Studio City Project Facility or the Studio City Notes and may require us to obtain consents or waivers from the lenders under the Studio City Project Facility and/or the holders of the Studio City Notes. In addition, no assurances can be given that our main construction contractor and its subcontractors will perform their obligations under their contracts or contractual warranties of work. If the opening of Studio City is delayed or does not occur due to any of the above or other factors, it could materially adversely affect our construction and development plan, plan of operations, business and prospects, financial condition and cash flows. Construction is subject to hazards that may cause personal injury or loss of life, thereby subjecting us to liabilities and possible losses, which may not be covered by insurance. The construction of large scale properties such as Studio City and the fifth hotel tower at City of Dreams can be dangerous. Construction workers at such sites are subject to hazards that may cause personal injury or loss of life, thereby subjecting the contractors and us to liabilities, possible losses, delays in completion of the projects and negative publicity. We believe that our contractors will take safety precautions that are consistent with industry practice, but these safety precautions may not be adequate to prevent serious personal injuries or loss of life, damage to property or delays. If further accidents occur during the construction of any of our projects, we may be subject to delays, including delays imposed by regulators, liabilities and possible losses, which may not be covered by insurance, and our business, prospects and reputation may be materially and adversely affected. We are developing the fifth hotel tower at City of Dreams and the Studio City project under the terms of land concession contracts which require us to fully develop the City of Dreams complex and the Studio City site by January 28, 2018 and July 24, 2018, respectively. If we do not complete development by that time and the Macau government does not grant us an extension of the development period, we could be forced to forfeit all or part of our investment in the City of Dreams or the Studio City site, along with our interest in the City of Dreams complex and the Studio City project. Land concessions in Macau are issued by the Macau government and generally have terms of 25 years, with extensions of 10 years thereafter. Land concessions further stipulate a period within which the development of the land must be completed. In accordance with the City of Dreams land concession contract and the Studio City land concession contract, the City of Dreams complex and the Studio City project must be fully developed by January 28, 2018 and July 24, 2018, respectively. We are in an early stage of developing the fifth hotel tower at City of Dreams and currently reviewing its development plan and schedule. While the first phase of the Studio City project is expected to be completed by the third quarter of 2015, we must complete the remaining phase of Studio City by July 24, 2018 in order to comply with the terms of the Studio City land concession contract. Our plan for the remaining phase of Studio City project is preliminary and currently under review. There is no guarantee we will complete the development of the new hotel or the Studio City project by the relevant deadline. In the event that additional time is required to complete the development of such new hotel or the remaining phase of Studio City, we will have to apply for an extension of the relevant development period. While the Macau government may grant such extension if we meet certain legal requirements and the application for extension is made in accordance with the relevant rules and regulations, there can be no assurance that the Macau government will grant us the necessary extension of the development period or not exercise its right to terminate the City of Dreams land concession or the Studio City land concession. In the event that no extension is granted or either the City of Dreams land concession or the Studio City land concession are terminated, we could lose all or substantially all of our investment in the City of Dreams complex or the Studio City project and may not be able to continue to operate the City of Dreams or operate the Studio City project as planned, which will materially adversely affect our business and prospects, results of operations and financial condition. 16 Table of Contents Inadequate transportation infrastructure in the Philippines or Macau may hinder the increase in visitation to the Philippines or Macau. City of Dreams Manila is located within Entertainment City, Manila, an area in the city of Manila which is currently under development. Other than Solaire, there are currently no other integrated tourism resorts which have begun operations in Entertainment City, Manila. It is unlikely that Manila’s existing transportation infrastructure is capable of handling the increased number of tourist arrivals that may be necessary to support visitor traffic to large scale integrated resorts within Entertainment City, such as City of Dreams Manila. Although the Philippine government is currently examining viable alternatives to ease traffic congestion in Manila, including construction of new highways and expressways, there is no guarantee that these measures will succeed, or that they will sufficiently alleviate traffic congestion or other deficiencies in Manila’s transportation infrastructure. Traffic congestion and other problems in Manila’s transportation infrastructure could adversely affect the tourism industry in the Philippines and reduce the number of potential visitors to City of Dreams Manila, which could, in turn, adversely affect our business and prospects, financial condition and results of our operations. Macau consists of a peninsula and two islands and is connected to China by two border crossings. Macau has an international airport and connections to China and Hong Kong by road, ferry and helicopter. To support Macau’s planned future development as a gaming and leisure destination, the frequency of bus, plane and ferry services to Macau will need to increase. While various projects are under development to improve Macau’s internal and external transportation links, these projects may not be approved, financed or constructed in time to handle the projected increase in demand for transportation or at all, which could impede visitation to Macau and adversely affect our projects in Macau. Conducting business in Macau and the Philippines is subject to certain regional and global political and economic risks that may significantly affect visitation to our properties and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Most of our properties are located in Macau and a significant number of our gaming customers come from mainland China. Accordingly, our business development plans, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected by significant political, social and economic developments in Macau and China or changes in laws and regulations. In particular, our operating results may be adversely affected by: • changes in Macau’s and China’s political, economic and social conditions; • tightening of travel or visa restrictions to Macau which may be imposed by China; • changes in policies of the government or changes in laws and regulations, or in the interpretation or enforcement of these laws and regulations, particularly anti-smoking legislation, gaming table allocation policies, exchange control regulations, regulations relating to repatriation of capital or measures to control inflation and monetary transfers; • measures that may be introduced to control inflation, such as interest rate increases or bank account withdrawal controls; and • changes in the tax laws and regulations. For example, our business and operations are affected by the travel or visa restrictions imposed by China on its citizens from time to time. The Chinese government imposes restrictions on exit visas granted to resident citizens of mainland China for travel to Macau. The government further restricts the number of days that resident citizens of mainland China may spend in Macau for certain types of travel. Such travel and visa restrictions, and any changes imposed by the Chinese government from time to time, could disrupt the number of visitors from mainland China to our property. 17 Table of Contents Our operations in Macau are also exposed to the risk of changes in laws and policies that govern operations of Macau-based companies. Tax laws and regulations may also be subject to amendment or different interpretation and implementation, thereby adversely affecting our profitability after tax. Further, certain terms of our gaming subconcession may be subject to renegotiations with the Macau government in the future, including amounts we will be obligated to pay the Macau government in order to continue operations. The results of any renegotiations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The demand for gaming activities and related services and luxury amenities that we provide through our operations is dependent on discretionary consumer spending and, as with other forms of entertainment, is susceptible to downturns in economic conditions. An economic downturn may reduce consumers’ willingness to travel and reduce their spending overseas, which would adversely impact us as we depend on visitors from mainland China and other countries to generate a substantial portion of our revenues. Changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences could be driven by factors such as perceived or actual general economic conditions, high energy and food prices, the increased cost of travel, weak segments of the job market, perceived or actual disposable consumer income and wealth, fears of recession and changes in consumer confidence in the economy, or fears of armed conflict or future acts of terrorism. In addition, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected by any changes in China’s economy, including the decrease in the pace of economic growth. In 2014, the economy in China grew at a slower pace compared to the five preceding years. There is no guarantee that economic downturns or further decrease of economic growth in China will not occur in the future, that they will not be protracted or that governments will respond adequately to control and reverse such conditions, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. City of Dreams Manila is located in the Philippines and is subject to certain economic, political and social risks within the Philippines. The Philippines has in the past experienced severe political and social instability, including acts of political violence. Any future political or social instability in the Philippines could adversely affect the business operations and financial conditions of City of Dreams Manila. In addition, demand for, and the prices of, gaming and entertainment products are directly influenced by economic conditions in the Philippines, including growth levels, interest rates, inflation, levels of business activity and consumption, and the amount of remittances received from overseas Filipino workers. Any deterioration in economic and political conditions in the Philippines or elsewhere in Asia could materially and adversely affect our Company’s business in the Philippines, as well as the prospects, financial condition, and results of our operations in the Philippines. Our business in the Philippines will also depend substantially on revenues from foreign visitors and may be disrupted by events that reduce foreigners’ willingness to travel to or create substantial disruption in Metro Manila and raise substantial concerns about visitors’ personal safety, such as power outages, civil disturbances, terrorist attacks, among others. The Philippines has also experienced a significant number of major catastrophes over the years, including typhoons, volcanic eruptions and earthquakes. We cannot predict the extent to which our business in the Philippines and tourism in Metro Manila in general will be affected by any of the above occurrences or fears that such occurrences will take place. We cannot guarantee that any disruption to our Philippine operations will not be protracted, that City of Dreams Manila will not suffer any damages, and that any such damage will be completely covered by insurance or at all. Any of these occurrences may disrupt our operations in the Philippines. Certain policies and campaigns implemented by the Chinese government may lead to a decline in the number of patrons visiting our properties and, in turn, materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The number of patrons visiting our properties in Macau, and the spending of such patrons, may be affected by changes in policies and campaigns of the Chinese government. For example, recent initiatives and 18 Table of Contents campaign undertaken by the Chinese government have resulted in an overall dampening effect on the behavior of Chinese consumer and a decrease in their spending, particularly in luxury good sales and other discretionary spending. In addition, the number of patrons visiting our properties in Macau may be affected by the Chinese government’s focus on deterring marketing of gambling to Chinese mainland residents by foreign casinos and its initiatives to tighten monetary transfer regulations and increase monitoring of various transactions related to Macau, including bank or credit card transactions. Our Macau gaming business is dependent on visitors from China and any campaigns or initiatives which impact Chinese consumers’ willingness to spend may have a material effect on Macau’s gaming market and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We derive a significant majority of our revenues from our Macau gaming business and any disruptions or downturns in the Macau gaming market may have a material impact on our business. Prior to 2014, we derived substantially all of our revenues from our business and operations in Macau. Although we now also generate revenues from our Philippine operations, we continue to derive a significant majority of our revenues from our Macau gaming business and may be materially affected by any disruptions or downturns in the Macau gaming market. According to DICJ, the Macau gaming market experienced a decline in gross gaming revenues as compared to 2013, and the decline has continued into 2015, with gross gaming revenues in Macau declining by approximately 35.1% on a year-over-year basis in the first two months of 2015. We believe such decline was primarily driven by a deterioration in gaming demand from China, which provides a core customer base for the Macau gaming market, as well as other restrictions including the imposition of travel restrictions and the implementation of smoking restrictions in casinos. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected by such decline or other disruptions in the Macau gaming market. The gaming industries in the Philippines and Macau are highly regulated. Gaming is a highly regulated industry in Macau. Our Macau gaming business is subject to various laws, such as those relating to licensing, tax rates and anti-money laundering measures, which may change or become more stringent. Changes in laws may result in additional regulations being imposed on our gaming operations in Macau and our future projects, including Studio City project. Our operations in Macau are also exposed to the risk of changes in the Macau government’s policies that govern operations of Macau-based companies and the Macau government’s interpretation of or amendments to our gaming subconcession. Any such adverse developments in the regulation of the Macau gaming industry could be difficult to comply with and could significantly increase our costs, which could cause our projects to be unsuccessful. See “— Gaming is a highly regulated industry in Macau and adverse changes or developments in gaming laws or regulations could be difficult to comply with or may significantly increase our costs, which could cause our projects to be unsuccessful.” The Philippine gaming industry is also highly regulated. City of Dreams Manila may legally operate under the Provisional License, which requires a number of periodic approvals from and reports to PAGCOR. PAGCOR may refuse to approve proposals by us and our gaming promoters or modify previously approved proposals and may require us and/or our gaming promoters to perform acts with which we disagree. The Provisional License requires 95.0% of City of Dreams Manila’s total employees to be locally hired. PAGCOR could also exert a substantial influence in our human resource policies, particularly with respect to the qualifications and salary levels for gaming employees, especially in light of the fact that employees assigned to the gaming operations are required by PAGCOR to obtain a Gaming Employment License. As a result, PAGCOR could have influence over City of Dreams Manila’s gaming operations. Moreover, because PAGCOR is also an operator of casinos and gaming establishments in the Philippines, it is possible that conflicts in relation to PAGCOR’s operating and regulatory functions may exist or may arise in the future. In addition, we and our gaming promoters may not be able to obtain, or maintain, all requisite approvals, permits and licenses that various Philippine and local government agencies may require. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations in the Philippines. 19 Table of Contents In addition, our licenses and permits from various Philippine government agencies, such as those related to labor, public works, safety, fire, buildings, health and environmental, are required to be renewed annually. There is no guarantee that the requirements for the said permits and licenses will remain the same, or that the relevant Philippine government agencies will not impose additional and more onerous requirements. This may affect our ability to renew our licenses and permits, which could adversely affect our business in the Philippines. We face intense competition in Macau, the Philippines and elsewhere in Asia and may not be able to compete successfully. The hotel, resort and gaming businesses are highly competitive. The competitors of our business in Macau, the Philippines and elsewhere in Asia include many of the largest gaming, hospitality, leisure and resort companies in the world. Some of these current and future competitors are larger than we are and may have more diversified resources and greater access to capital to support their developments and operations in Macau, the Philippines, and elsewhere. In the Philippine gaming market, we will compete with hotels and resorts owned by both Philippine nationals and foreigners. PAGCOR, an entity owned and controlled by the government of Philippines, also operates gaming facilities across the Philippines. We expect our operations in the Philippines to face competition from gaming operators in other more established gaming centers across the region, particularly those of Macau and Singapore, and other major gaming markets located around the world, including Australia and Las Vegas, as we expect to target similar pools of customers and tourists. A number of such other operators have a longer track record of gaming operations and such other markets have more established reputations as gaming markets. Our operations in the Philippines may not be successful in its efforts to attract foreign customers and independent gaming promoters to City of Dreams Manila, and to promote Manila as a gaming destination. In Macau, some competitors have announced intentions for further expansion and developments in Cotai, where City of Dreams is, and Studio City will be, located. For example, Galaxy opened Galaxy Macau Resort in Cotai in May 2011 and has announced the opening of Phase 2 of the Galaxy Macau Resort in May 2015, Sands China Ltd., a subsidiary of Las Vegas Sands Corporation, opened Sands Cotai Central in Cotai in April 2012 and has announced the opening of the Parisian in Cotai in 2016. Wynn Macau, MGM Grand Paradise and SJM have each begun construction of additional projects in Cotai which have been announced to open in the first half of 2016, 2016 and 2017 respectively. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Market and Competition.” We also compete to some extent with casinos located in other countries, such as Malaysia, Singapore, North Korea, South Korea, Cambodia, Australia, New Zealand, Vietnam, and elsewhere in the world, including Las Vegas and Atlantic City in the United States. In addition, certain countries, such as Japan, Taiwan and Thailand, may in the future legalize casino gaming. We also compete with cruise ships operating out of Hong Kong and other areas of Asia that offer gaming. The proliferation of gaming venues in Southeast Asia could also significantly and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. Our regional competitors also include Crown’s Crown Melbourne in Melbourne, Australia and Crown Perth in Perth, Australia and other casino resorts that Melco and Crown may develop elsewhere in Asia outside Macau. Melco and Crown may develop different interests and strategies for projects in Asia under their joint venture which conflict with the interests of our business in Macau, or otherwise compete with us for Asian gaming and leisure customers. See “— Risks Relating to Our Corporate Structure and Ownership.” The governments in Macau and the Philippines could grant additional rights to conduct gaming in the future, which could significantly increase competition and cause us to lose or be unable to gain market share. In Macau, Melco Crown Macau is one of six companies authorized by the Macau government to operate gaming activities. Pursuant to the terms of Macau Law No. 16/2001, or the Macau Gaming Law, the 20 Table of Contents Macau government is precluded from granting more than three gaming concessions. The Macau government has announced that until further assessment of the economic situation in Macau there will not be any increase in the number of concessions or subconcessions. However, the policies and laws of the Macau government could change and the Macau government could grant additional concessions or subconcessions, and we could face additional competition which could significantly increase the competition in Macau and cause us to lose or be unable to maintain or gain market share. PAGCOR has issued the Provisional License to the Philippine Licensees and additional provisional gaming licenses to three other companies in the Philippines for the development and operation of integrated casino resorts. PAGCOR has also licensed private casino operators in special economic zones, including four in Clark Ecozone, one in Poro Point, La Union, one in Binangonan, Rizal and one in Newport City CyberTourism Zone, Pasay City, the Philippines. The Provisional License granted by PAGCOR to the Philippine Licensees is non-exclusive, and PAGCOR has given no assurances to the Philippine Licensees that it will not issue additional gaming licenses, or that it will limit the number of licenses it issues. Any additional gaming licenses issued by PAGCOR could increase competition in the Philippine gaming industry, which could diminish the value of the Philippine Licensees’ Provisional License and the regular license that the Philippine Licensees expect to obtain upon City of Dreams Manila’s completion. This could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations in the Philippines. Any simultaneous planning, design, construction and development of any future projects may stretch our management time and resources, which could lead to delays, increased costs and other inefficiencies in the development of these projects. There may be overlap of the planning, design, development and construction periods of our future projects. Members of our senior management will be involved in planning and developing our future projects at the same time, in addition to overseeing our day-to-day operations. Our management may be unable to devote sufficient time and attention to such projects, as well as our operating properties, and that may delay the construction or opening of any of our future projects, cause construction cost overruns or cause the performance of our operating properties to be lower than expected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our senior management, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. We place substantial reliance on the gaming, project development and hospitality industry experience and knowledge of the Macau and Philippine markets possessed by members of our senior management team. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team could hinder our ability to effectively manage our business and implement our growth and development strategies. Finding suitable replacements for members of our senior management could be difficult, and competition for personnel of similar experience could be intense in Macau and the Philippines. In addition, we do not currently carry key person insurance on any members of our senior management team. The success of our business may depend on our ability to attract and retain adequate qualified personnel. A limited labor supply and increased competition could cause labor costs to increase. The pool of experienced gaming and other skilled and unskilled personnel in Macau and the Philippines is limited. Many of our new personnel occupy sensitive positions requiring qualifications sufficient to meet gaming regulatory and other requirements, or are required to possess other skills for which substantial training and experience are needed. Moreover, competition to recruit and retain qualified gaming and other personnel is expected to continue, as well as our demand for qualified personnel. In addition, we are not currently allowed under Macau government policy to hire non-Macau resident dealers and supervisors. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified individuals to operate our properties, or that costs to recruit and retain such personnel will not increase 21 Table of Contents significantly. The inability to attract and retain qualified employees and operational management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Further, the Macau government is currently enforcing a labor policy pursuant to which the ratio of local to foreign workers that may be recruited is determined on a case by case basis and for construction works it shall have to be at least 1:1, unless otherwise authorized by the Macau government. This could have a material adverse effect on our ability to complete future works on our properties, for example, Studio City, or the fifth hotel tower at City of Dreams. Moreover, if the Macau government enforces similar restrictive ratios in other areas, such as the gaming, hotel and entertainment industries, this could have a materially adverse effect on the operation of our properties. In the Philippines, the Provisional License requires that at least 95.0% of City of Dreams Manila’s total employees shall be locally hired. Our inability to recruit a sufficient number of employees in the Philippines to meet this provision or to do so in a cost-effective manner may cause us to lower our hiring standards, which may have an adverse impact on City of Dreams Manila’s service levels, reputation and business. Moreover, casino resort employers may also contest the hiring of their former employees by us. There can be no assurance that such claim will not be successful or other similar or claims will not be brought against us or any of our affiliates in the future. In the event any such claim is found to be valid, we could suffer losses and face difficulties in recruiting from competing operators. If found to have basis by courts, these allegations could also result in possible civil liabilities on us or our relevant officers if such officers are shown to have deliberately and willfully condoned a patently unlawful act of the corporation. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all losses that we may suffer from our operations. In addition, our insurance costs may increase and we may not be able to obtain the same insurance coverage in the future. We currently have various insurance policies providing certain coverage typically required by gaming and hospitality operations in Macau. In addition, we maintain various types of insurance policies for our Philippine business and operations, including property damage, business interruption, general liability and a standard all risk insurance policies, and a surety bond required by PAGCOR, which secures the prompt payment by MCE Leisure Philippines of the monthly Licensee Fees due to PAGCOR. These insurance policies provide coverage that is subject to policy terms, conditions and limits. There is no assurance that we will be able to renew such insurance coverage on equivalent premium cost, terms, conditions and limits upon policy renewals. The cost of coverage may in the future become so high that we may be unable to obtain the insurance policies we deem necessary for the operation of our projects on commercially practicable terms, or at all, or we may need to reduce our policy limits or agree to certain exclusions from our coverage. We cannot assure you that any such insurance policies we may obtain will be adequate to protect us from material losses. Certain acts and events could expose us to significant uninsured losses. In addition to the damages caused directly by a casualty loss such as fire or natural disasters, we may suffer a disruption of our business as a result of these events or be subject to claims by third parties who may be injured or harmed. While we intend to carry business interruption insurance and general liability insurance, such insurance may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and, in any event, may not be adequate to cover all losses that may result from such events. There is limited available insurance in Macau and the Philippines and our insurers in Macau and the Philippines may need to secure reinsurance in order to provide adequate cover for our property and development projects. Our credit agreements, Melco Crown Macau’s subconcession contract with Wynn Macau relating to the gaming concession in Macau (the “Subconcession Contract”), the Provisional License granted by PAGCOR and certain other material agreements require a certain level of insurance to be maintained, which must be obtained in Macau and the Philippines respectively, unless otherwise authorized by the respective government(s). Failure to maintain adequate coverage could be an event of default under our credit agreements, the Subconcession Contract or the Provisional License and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 22 Table of Contents The winnings of our patrons could exceed our casino winnings at particular times during our operations. Our revenues are mainly derived from the difference between our casino winnings and the winnings of our casino patrons. Since there is an inherent element of chance in the gaming industry, we do not have full control over our winnings or the winnings of our casino patrons. If the winnings of our patrons exceed our casino winnings, we may record a loss from our gaming operations, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Win rates for our casino operations depend on a variety of factors, some beyond our control, which, at particular times, adversely impact our results of operations. In addition to the element of chance, theoretical win rates are also affected by other factors, including players’ skill and experience, the mix of games played, the financial resources of players, the spread of table limits, the volume of bets placed by our players and the amount of time players spend on gambling — thus our actual win rates may differ greatly over short time periods, such as from quarter to quarter, and could cause our quarterly results to be volatile. Each of these factors, alone or in combination, have the potential to negatively impact our win rates, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our gaming business is subject to the risk of cheating and counterfeiting. All gaming activities at our table games are conducted exclusively with gaming chips which, like real currency, are subject to the risk of alteration and counterfeiting. We incorporate a variety of security and anti-counterfeit features to detect altered or counterfeit gaming chips. Despite such security features, unauthorized parties may try to copy our gaming chips and introduce, use and cash in altered or counterfeit gaming chips in our gaming areas. Any negative publicity arising from such incidents could also tarnish our reputation and may result in a decline in our business, financial condition and results of operation. Our existing surveillance and security systems, designed to detect cheating at our casino operations, may not be able to detect all such cheating in time or at all, particularly if patrons collude with our employees. In addition, our gaming promoters or other persons could, without our knowledge, enter into betting arrangements directly with our casino patrons on the outcomes of our games of chance, thus depriving us of revenues. Our operations are reviewed to detect and prevent cheating. Each game has a theoretical win rate and statistics are examined with these in mind. Cheating may give rise to negative publicity and such action may materially affect our business, financial condition, operations and cash flows. Terrorism and the uncertainty of war, crime, natural disasters and other factors affecting discretionary consumer spending and leisure travel may reduce visitation to Macau and the Philippines and harm our operating results. The strength and profitability of our business depends on consumer demand for casino resorts and leisure travel in general. Terrorist acts could have a negative impact on international travel and leisure expenditures, including lodging, gaming and tourism. Disruptive incidents in Manila in previous years include widespread demonstrations that compelled a president to resign, widespread strikes by labor federations, attempted coups d’état and military rebellions, and kidnappings and murders. Widely-publicized criminal acts that have resulted in numerous deaths and injuries have also taken place in Metro Manila. We cannot predict the extent to which future terrorist acts and crimes may affect us, directly or indirectly. In addition to acts of terrorism, Metro Manila has experienced severe natural disasters and its authorities may not be prepared or equipped to respond to such disasters. Macau, consisting of a peninsula and two islands off the coast of mainland China, is also susceptible to extreme weather condition. Unfavorable weather conditions, severe typhoon or other natural disasters in Macau could prevent or discourage guests from traveling to Macau. 23 Table of Contents We cannot guarantee that any disruption to our operations will not be protracted nor that any damage we incur from such disruption would be completely covered by insurance or at all. Any of these occurrences may disrupt our operations and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, any of the above occurrences may also destabilize the economy and business environment in Macau and the Philippines, which could also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. An outbreak of widespread health epidemic, contagious disease or other outbreaks may have an adverse effect on the economies of certain Asian countries and may have material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by the outbreak of a widespread health epidemic, such as swine flu, avian influenza, severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) or Ebola. The occurrence of such health epidemic, prolonged outbreak of an epidemic illness or other adverse public health developments in China or elsewhere in the world could materially disrupt our business and operations. Such events could also significantly impact our industry and cause a temporary closure of the facilities we use for our operations, which would severely disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Guangdong Province, PRC, which is located across the Zhuhai Border from Macau, has confirmed several cases of avian flu. Fully effective avian flu vaccines have not been developed and there is evidence that the H5N1 virus is constantly evolving so there can be no assurance that an effective vaccine can be discovered or commercially manufactured in time to protect against the potential avian flu pandemic. In the first half of 2003, certain countries in Asia experienced an outbreak of SARS, a highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia, which seriously interrupted economic activities and caused the demand for goods and services to plummet in the affected regions. There can be no assurance that an outbreak swine flu , avian influenza, SARS, Ebola, or other contagious disease or the measures taken by the governments of affected countries against such potential outbreaks will not seriously interrupt our gaming operations. The perception that an outbreak of health epidemic or contagious disease may occur may also have an adverse effect on the economic conditions of countries in Asia. In addition, our operations could be disrupted if any of our employees or others involved in our operations were suspected of having the swine flu, avian influenza, SARS or Ebola as this could require us to quarantine some or all of such employees or persons or disinfect the facilities used for our operations. In addition, our revenues and profitability could be materially reduced to the extent that a health epidemic or other outbreak harms the global or PRC economy in general. Unfavorable fluctuations in the currency exchange rates of the H.K. dollar, U.S. dollar, Pataca, or Philippine peso and other risks related to foreign exchange and currencies, could adversely affect our indebtedness, expenses, profitability and financial condition. Our exposure to foreign exchange rate risk is associated with the currency of our operations and our indebtedness and as a result of the presentation of our financial statements in U.S. dollars. The majority of our current revenues are denominated in H.K. dollars, given the H.K. dollar is the predominant currency used in gaming transactions in Macau and is often used interchangeably with the Pataca in Macau. Our current expenses are denominated predominantly in Patacas, H.K. dollars and Philippine peso. In addition, we have revenues, assets, debt and expenses denominated in Philippine peso relating to our business in the Philippines. We also have subsidiaries, branch offices and assets in various countries, including Taiwan, which are subject to foreign exchange fluctuations and local regulations that may impose, among others, limitations, restrictions or approval requirements on conversions and/or repatriation of foreign currencies. In addition, a significant portion of our indebtedness, after giving effect to the issuance of the 2013 Senior Notes and Studio City Notes, and certain expenses, are denominated in U.S. dollars, and the costs associated with servicing and repaying such debt will be denominated in U.S. dollars. 24 Table of Contents The value of the H.K. dollar, Patacas and Philippine peso against the U.S. dollar may fluctuate and may be affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions. While the H.K. dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar within a narrow range and the Pataca is in turn pegged to the H.K. dollar and the exchange rates between these currencies has remained relatively stable over the past several years, we cannot assure you that the current peg or linkages between the U.S. dollar, H.K. dollar and Pataca will not be broken or modified and subjected to fluctuation. Any significant fluctuations in the exchange rates between H.K. dollars, Patacas or Philippine peso to U.S. dollars may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition. For example, to the extent that we are required to convert U.S. dollar financings into H.K. dollars or Patacas for our operations, fluctuations in the exchange rates between H.K. dollars or Patacas against the U.S. dollar could have an adverse effect on the amounts we receive from the conversion. While we maintain a certain amount of our operating funds in the same currencies in which we have obligations to reduce our exposure to currency fluctuations, we have not engaged in hedging transactions with respect to foreign exchange exposure of our revenues and expenses in our day-to-day operations during the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013. In addition, we may face regulatory, legal and other risks in connection with our assets and operations in certain jurisdictions that may impose limitations, restrictions or approval requirements on conversions and/or repatriation of foreign currencies. We will consider our overall procedure for managing our foreign exchange risk from time to time, but we cannot assure you that any such procedures will enable us to obtain and achieve effective hedging of our foreign exchange risk, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. We may undertake mergers, acquisitions or strategic transactions that could result in operating difficulties and distraction from our current business and subject us to regulatory and legal inquiries and proceedings. We have made, and may in the future make, acquisitions and investments in companies or projects to expand or complement our existing operations. From time to time, we engage in discussions and negotiations with companies regarding acquisitions or investments in such companies or projects. We may, from time to time, receive inquiries from regulatory and legal authorities and become subject to regulatory and legal proceedings in connection with such acquisitions and investments in companies or projects. In addition, if we acquire or invest in another company or project, the integration process following the completion of such acquisition may prove more difficult than anticipated. We may be subject to liabilities or claims that we are not aware of at the time of the investment or acquisition, and we may not realize the benefits anticipated at the time of the investment or acquisition. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses and liabilities and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Even if we do identify suitable opportunities, we may not be able to make such acquisitions or investments on commercially acceptable terms or adequate financing may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all, and we may not be able to consummate a proposed acquisition or investment. We are subject to risks relating to litigation, disputes and regulatory investigations which may adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. We are, and may be in the future, subject to legal actions, disputes and regulatory investigations in the ordinary course of our business. We are also subject to risks relating to legal and regulatory proceedings and investigations which we or our affiliates may be a party to from time to time, or which could develop in the future. Our reputation may be adversely affected by our involvement or the involvement of our affiliates in litigation and regulatory proceedings. In addition, we and our affiliates operate in a number of jurisdictions in which regulatory and government authorities have a wide discretion to take procedural actions in support of their investigations and regulatory proceedings, including seizures and freezing of assets and other properties that are perceived to be connected or related to such investigations or regulatory proceedings. Given such wide discretion, regulatory or government authorities may take procedural actions that may affect our assets and properties in connection with any investigation or legal or regulatory proceeding involving us or any of our affiliates, which may materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 25 Table of Contents For example, the Taipei District Prosecutors Office brought an indictment in August 2014 against our Taiwan branch office of a subsidiary and certain of its employees for alleged violations of certain Taiwan banking and foreign exchange laws. In January 2013, the same Prosecutors Office froze one of such Taiwan branch office’s deposit accounts, which had a balance of approximately New Taiwan dollar 2.98 billion (equivalent to approximately US$102.2 million) at the time the account was frozen, in connection with the investigation related to this indictment. If we fail to successfully defend the claims made by the Taipei District Prosecutors Office, we may be subject to certain statutory penalties including, but not limited to, fines and confiscation of illegal proceeds. In addition, if we are unsuccessful in defending one of our subsidiaries against certain claims alleging that it received misappropriated or misapplied funds, this may require further improvements to our existing anti-money laundering procedures, systems and controls and our business operations may be subject to greater scrutiny from relevant regulatory authorities, all of which may increase our compliance costs. No assurance can be provided that any provisions we have made for such matters will be sufficient. Litigation and regulatory proceedings and investigation are inherently unpredictable and our results of operations or cash flows may be adversely affected by an unfavorable resolution of any pending or future litigation, disputes and regulatory investigation. We extend credit to a portion of our customers, and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables from our credit customers. We conduct, and expect to continue to conduct, our table gaming activities at our casinos on a credit basis as well as a cash basis. As is common practice in Macau, we grant credit to our gaming promoters and certain of our premium direct players. The gaming promoters bear the responsibility for issuing to, and subsequently, collecting credit from their players. We intend to selectively extend credit to certain VIP patrons in the Philippines whose level of play and financial resources warrant such an extension in our opinion. This credit is often unsecured, as is customary in our industry. High-end patrons typically are extended more credit than patrons who wager lower amounts. Any slowdown in the economy could adversely impact our VIP patrons, which could in turn increase the risk that these clients may default on credit extended to them. We may not be able to collect all of our gaming receivables from our credit customers. We expect that we will be able to enforce our gaming receivables only in a limited number of jurisdictions, including Macau and under certain circumstances, Hong Kong. As most of our gaming customers in Macau are visitors from other jurisdictions, principally Hong Kong and China, we may not have access to a forum in which we will be able to collect all of our gaming receivables because, among other reasons, courts of many jurisdictions, including China, do not enforce gaming debts. Further, we may be unable to locate assets in other jurisdictions against which to seek recovery of gaming debts. The collectability of receivables from international customers could be negatively affected by future business or economic trends or by significant events in the countries in which these customers reside. We may also, in given cases, have to determine whether aggressive enforcement actions against a customer will unduly alienate the customer and cause the customer to cease playing at our casinos. We could suffer a material adverse impact on our operating results if receivables from our credit customers are deemed uncollectible. In addition, in Macau, in the event a patron has been extended credit and has lost back to us the amount borrowed and the receivable from that patron is deemed uncollectible, Macau gaming tax will still be payable on the resulting gaming revenues, notwithstanding our uncollectible receivable. An estimated allowance for doubtful debts is maintained to reduce our receivables to their carrying amounts, which approximate fair values. The current credit environment may limit availability of credit and may negatively impact our business and financial plans. Our business and financing plans may be dependent upon completion of future financings. Any severe contraction of liquidity in the global credit markets may make it difficult and costly to obtain new lines of credit or to refinance existing debt, and may place broad limitations on the availability of credit from credit sources as well as lengthening the recovery cycle of extended credit. If the credit environment worsens, it may be difficult 26 Table of Contents to obtain any additional financing on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect our ability to complete development projects. Continued tightening of liquidity conditions in credit markets may constrain revenue generation and growth and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Rolling chip patrons and VIP gaming customers may cause significant volatility in our revenues and cash flows. A substantial proportion of our casino revenues in Macau is generated from the rolling chip segment of the gaming market. Similarly, we intend to attract foreign gaming visitors to City of Dreams Manila, particularly VIP players who typically place large individual wagers. Revenues and cash flows derived from high-end gaming of this type are typically more volatile than those from other forms of gaming primarily due to high bets and the resulting high winnings and losses. As a result, our business and results of operations and cash flows from operations may be more volatile from quarter to quarter than that of our competitors and may require higher levels of cage cash in reserve to manage this volatility. We depend upon gaming promoters for a portion of our gaming revenues and if we are unable to establish, maintain and increase the number of successful relationships with gaming promoters, our ability to attract rolling chip patrons may be adversely affected. Gaming promoters, who organize tours for rolling chip patrons to casinos in Macau, are responsible for a portion of our gaming revenues in Macau. With the rise in casino operations in Macau, the competition for relationships with gaming promoters has increased. As of December 31, 2014, we had agreements in place with approximately 97 gaming promoters. If we are unable to utilize and develop relationships with gaming promoters, our ability to grow our gaming revenues will be hampered and we will have to seek alternative ways to develop and maintain relationships with rolling chip patrons, which may not be as profitable as relationships developed through gaming promoters. As competition intensifies, we may therefore need to offer better terms of business to gaming promoters, including extensions of credit, which may increase our overall credit exposure. If our gaming promoters are not able to maintain relationships with patrons, our ability to maintain or grow casino revenues may be adversely affected. We are impacted by the reputation and integrity of the parties with whom we engage in business activities and we cannot assure you that these parties will always maintain high standards or suitability throughout the term of our association with them. Failure to maintain such high standards or suitability may cause us and our shareholders to suffer harm to our own and our shareholders’ reputation, as well as impaired relationships with, and possibly sanctions from, gaming regulators. The reputation and integrity of the parties with whom we engage in business activities are important to our own reputation and our ability to continue to operate in compliance with the permits and licenses required for our business. These parties include, but are not limited to, those who are engaged in gaming related activities, such as gaming promoters, and developers and hotel operators with whom we have or may enter into services agreements. Under Macau Gaming Law, Melco Crown Macau has an obligation to supervise its gaming promoters to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations and serious breaches or repeated misconduct by its gaming promoters could result in the termination of its subconcession. For parties we deal with in gaming related activities, where relevant, the gaming regulators undertake their own probity checks and will reach their own suitability findings in respect of the activities and parties which we intend to associate with. In addition, we also conduct our internal due diligence and evaluation process prior to engaging such parties. Notwithstanding such regulatory probity checks and our own due diligence, we cannot assure you that the parties with whom we are associated will always maintain the high standards that gaming regulators and we require or that such parties will maintain their suitability throughout the term of our association with them. If we were to deal with any party whose probity was in doubt, this may be negatively perceived when assessed by the gaming regulators. Also, if a party associated with us falls below the gaming regulators’ suitability standards, we and our shareholders may suffer reputational harm, as well as impaired relationships with, and possibly sanctions from, the relevant gaming regulators with authority over our operations. 27 Table of Contents Any violation of FCPA could have a negative impact on us. We are subject to regulations imposed by the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and other anti-corruption laws which if violated may result in severe criminal and civil sanctions as well as other penalties. There has been a general increase in FCPA enforcement activity in recent years by the SEC and U.S. Department of Justice. Both the number of FCPA cases and sanctions imposed have risen dramatically. We cannot assure you that our ongoing FCPA compliance program would be effective or that our employees, contractors and agents will continually adhere to our compliance programs. Should they not follow our programs, we could be subject to investigations, prosecutions and other legal proceedings and actions which could result in civil penalties, administrative remedies and criminal sanctions, any of which may result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition. A failure to establish and protect our intellectual property rights could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have applied for and/or registered the trademarks “Altira,” “Mocha Club,” “City of Dreams”, “City of Dreams Manila”, “Studio City”, “Melco Crown Entertainment” and “Melco Crown Philippines” in, as the case may be, Macau, the Philippines and other jurisdictions. We have also registered in Macau, the Philippines and other jurisdictions certain other trademarks and service marks used in connection with the operations of our hotel casino projects in Macau and City of Dreams Manila. We endeavor to establish and protect our intellectual property rights and our goods and services through trademarks and service marks, domain names, licenses and other contractual provisions. The brands we use in connection with our properties are beginning to gain recognition. Failure to possess, obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights could negatively impact the development of our brands and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, if a third party claims we have infringed, currently infringe, or could in the future infringe its intellectual property rights, we may need to cease use of such intellectual property or incur substantial expenses to defend against such allegations, or if third parties misappropriate or infringe our intellectual property, we may need to take steps to protect our intellectual property, which may result in substantial expenses, all of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The infringement or alleged infringement of intellectual property rights belonging to third parties could adversely affect our business. We face the potential risk of claims that we have infringed intellectual property rights of third parties, which could be expensive and time-consuming to defend. Upon such claims, we may be required to cease using certain intellectual property rights or selling certain products or services, to pay significant damages or to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements, which may not be available at all, any of which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and future prospects. We cannot assure you that anti-money laundering policies that we have implemented, and compliance with applicable anti-money laundering laws, will be effective to prevent our casino operations from being exploited for money laundering purposes. Macau’s free port, offshore financial services and free movements of capital has created an environment whereby Macau’s casinos could be exploited for money laundering purposes. We have implemented anti-money laundering policies in compliance with all applicable anti-money laundering laws and regulations in Macau and the Philippines. We cannot assure you that any such policies will be effective in preventing our casino operations from being exploited for money laundering purposes, including from jurisdictions outside of Macau. In the normal course of business, we expect to be required by regulatory authorities from Macau and other jurisdictions to attend meetings and interviews from time to time to discuss our operations as they relate to anti-money laundering laws and regulations. We deal in significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to various reporting and anti-money laundering regulations. 28 Table of Contents In the Philippines, we will deal with significant amounts of cash during the initial stages of regular operations. We are required to comply with all applicable anti-money laundering laws and regulations in the Philippines, as well as international standards. In the normal course of business, we expect to be required by regulatory authorities from the Philippines and other jurisdictions to attend meetings and interviews from time to time to discuss our operations as they relate to anti-money laundering laws and regulations. While we expect to expend time and cost in connection with such regulatory compliance matters, we cannot provide any assurance that any such regulatory compliance matters will be effective in preventing our casino operations from being exploited for money laundering purposes, including from jurisdictions outside of the Philippines. Any incident of money laundering, accusation of money laundering or regulatory investigations into possible money laundering activities involving us, our employees, our gaming promoters or our customers could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business, cash flows, financial condition, prospects and results of operations. Any serious incident of or repeated violation of laws related to money laundering or any regulatory investigation into money laundering activities may cause a revocation or suspension of the subconcession or the Provisional License. For more information regarding anti-money laundering regulations in Macau and the Philippines, see “Item 4. Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Regulations — Macau Regulations — Anti-Money Laundering Regulations in Macau” and “Item 4. Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Regulations — Philippines Regulations — Anti-Money Laundering Regulations in the Philippines”. Our business requires the collection and retention of customer data, which could expose us to regulatory and other risks associated with information technology system. Our business requires the collection and retention of customer data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information of our customers. We are also required under applicable law to collect and retain personal data in respect of our employees. While we believe that our system and practices are generally adequate to meet applicable legal and regulatory requirements in Macau and the Philippines with regard to the collection, retention and processing of personal data, our information technology system may be unable to satisfy changing regulatory requirements, or may require additional investments or time in order to do so. In addition, our information technology system and records may be subject to security breaches, system failures, viruses, operator error or inadvertent releases of personal data. A significant loss, theft or fraudulent use of personal data maintained by us or any breach by us of the applicable regulatory requirements in Macau or the Philippines could adversely affect our reputation and could result in criminal or administrative penalties, in addition to any civil liability and other expenses. The audit report included in this annual report has been prepared by auditors whose work may not be inspected fully by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, you may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the SEC, as an auditor of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or the PCAOB, is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Many of our auditor’s other clients have substantial operations within mainland China, and the PCAOB has been unable to complete inspections of the work of our auditor within mainland China without the approval of the Chinese authorities. Thus, our auditor is not currently inspected fully by the PCAOB. Inspections of other firms that the PCAOB has conducted outside mainland China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. The lack of PCAOB inspections in mainland China 29 Table of Contents prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating our auditor’s audit procedures and quality control procedures as they relate to their work in mainland China. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of such regular inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct full inspections of auditors in mainland China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors who primarily work in jurisdictions where PCAOB has full inspection access. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and the quality of our financial statements. Risks Relating to the Gaming Industry and Our Operations in Macau Our gaming operations in Macau could be adversely affected by restrictions on the export of the Renminbi. Gaming operators in Macau are currently prohibited from accepting wagers in Renminbi, the currency of China. There are currently restrictions on the export of the Renminbi outside of mainland China, including to Macau. For example, Chinese traveling abroad are only allowed to take a total of RMB20,000 plus the equivalent of up to US$5,000 out of China. Restrictions on the export of the Renminbi may impede the flow of gaming customers from China to Macau, inhibit the growth of gaming in Macau and negatively impact our operations. Gaming is a highly regulated industry in Macau and adverse changes or developments in gaming laws, smoking regulations or other regulations that affect our operations could be difficult to comply with or may significantly increase our costs, which could cause our projects to be unsuccessful. Gaming is a highly regulated industry in Macau. See “—The gaming industries in the Philippines and Macau are highly regulated”. The Macau government, from time to time, enacts legislations and imposes various regulations and restrictions that affect the gaming industry in Macau. For example, the Macau government has passed anti-smoking legislation and rules restricting smoking in our Macau properties. Recent public announcements indicate that the Macau government intends to pursue a full smoking ban within all Macau casinos. The Macau government continues to amend its legislation and rules relating to smoking in public areas and impose new restrictions and rules. From time to time, the Macau government may take enforcement actions, such as imposing fines or other penalties, against gaming operators for any violation of anti-smoking regulations and rules. The implementation of such legislation, rules and regulations may deter potential gaming patrons who are smokers from frequenting casinos in Macau, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Regulations.” In addition, the Macau government imposed regulations and restrictions that affect the minimum age required for entrance into casinos in Macau, location requirements for sites with gaming machine lounges, data privacy and other matters. Any such legislation, regulation or restriction imposed by the Macau government may lead to, among others, the closure of our gaming machine lounges, and have material adverse impact on our operations, business and financial performance. Furthermore, our inability to address any of these requirements or restrictions imposed by the Macau government could adversely affect our reputation and result in criminal or administrative penalties, in addition to any civil liability and other expenses. Our activities in Macau are also subject to administrative review and approval by various departments of the Macau government. Our ability to obtain and maintain such administrative approvals may have a material impact on our business and operations. 30 Table of Contents The Macau government has established a maximum number of gaming tables that may be operated in Macau and may limit the number of new gaming tables at new gaming areas in Macau, including our development project, Studio City. The Macau government has imposed a cap on gaming tables and restricts the number of gaming tables that may be operated in Macau. A cap of 5,500 tables up to the end of the first quarter of 2013 was implemented. In addition, for a period of 10 years from the second quarter of 2013, the number of gaming tables to be authorized by the Macau government will be limited to an average annual increase of 3%. According to the DICJ, the number of gaming tables in Macau as of December 31, 2014, was 5,711. The Macau government has reiterated further that it does not intend to authorize the operation of any new casino or gaming area that was not previously authorized by the government. Given such announcements by the Macau government, we may not be able to obtain Macau government’s approval to operate a sufficient number of gaming tables at our development project, Studio City. These restrictions may have a material impact on our gaming revenues, overall business and operations and may adversely affect our development projects and the future expansion of our business. The lack of authorization to operate a sufficient number of gaming tables at Studio City may result in a breach of conditions and covenants contained in our Studio City Project Facility that could result in occurrence of events of default under the Studio City Project Facility and other debt instruments and consequential enforcement by the lenders and noteholders. See “— The Studio City Project Facility imposes certain conditions for the formal opening of Studio City and the failure to satisfy such conditions could lead to a material adverse effect on our business.” Our business and operations in Macau are dependent upon our subconcession and, if we fail to comply with the complex legal and regulation regime in Macau, we may be subject to revocation of the subconcession. Under the terms of the Subconcession Contract, we are obligated to comply with all laws, regulations, rulings and orders promulgated by the Macau government from time to time. In addition, we must comply with all the terms of the Subconcession Contract which contains various general covenants and provisions , such as general and special duties of cooperation, special duties of information, and obligations for the execution of our investment plan , as to which the determination of compliance is subjective. We cannot assure you that we will perform such covenants in a way that satisfies the requirements of the Macau government and, accordingly, we will depend on our continuing communications and good faith negotiations with the Macau government to ensure that we are performing our obligations under the subconcession in a manner that would avoid any violations. Under Melco Crown Macau’s subconcession, the Macau government is allowed to request various changes in the plans and specifications of our Macau properties and impose business and corporate requirements that may be binding on us. For example, the Macau Chief Executive has the right to require that we increase Melco Crown Macau’s share capital or that we provide certain deposits or other guarantees of performance with respect to the obligations of our Macau subsidiaries. Melco Crown Macau must first obtain the Macau government’s approval before raising certain debt or equity. In addition, and the terms of our debt facilities and agreements impose restrictions on our ability to incur debt and raise capital. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with these requirements or any other requirements of the Macau government or with the other requirements and obligations imposed by the subconcession. The harshest penalty that may be imposed on us for failure to comply with the complex legal and regulatory regime in Macau and the terms of the Subconcession Contract is revocation of the subconcession. Under the subconcession, the Macau government has the right to unilaterally terminate the subconcession in the event of non-compliance by Melco Crown Macau with its basic obligations under the subconcession and applicable Macau laws. If such a termination were to occur all of our casino premises and gaming equipment would revert to the Macau government automatically without compensation to us and Melco Crown Macau would be unable to operate casino gaming in Macau which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and could result in defaults under our indebtedness agreements and a partial or complete loss of our investments in our projects. We would also be unable to recover the US$900 31 Table of Contents million consideration paid to Wynn Macau for the issue of the subconcession. For a list of termination events, please see “Item 4. Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Regulations — Gaming Licenses — The Subconcession Contract in Macau.” These events could lead to the termination of Melco Crown Macau’s subconcession without compensation to Melco Crown Macau. In many of these instances, the Subconcession Contract does not provide a specific cure period within which any such events may be cured and, instead, we would rely on consultations and negotiations with the Macau government to remedy any such violation. Currently, there is no precedent on how the Macau government will treat the termination of a concession or subconcession upon the occurrence of any of the circumstances mentioned above. Some of the laws and regulations summarized above have not yet been applied by the Macau government. Therefore, the scope and enforcement of the provisions of Macau’s gaming regulatory system cannot be fully assessed at this time. Melco Crown Macau’s Subconcession Contract expires in 2022 and if we were unable to secure an extension of its subconcession in 2022 or if the Macau government were to exercise its redemption right in 2017, we would be unable to operate casino gaming in Macau. The Subconcession Contract expires on June 26, 2022. Unless it is extended beyond this date or legislation on reversion of casino premises is amended, all of our casino premises and gaming related equipment under Melco Crown Macau’s subconcession will automatically be transferred to the Macau government without compensation and we will cease to generate revenues from such operations. Under the Subconcession Contract, beginning in 2017, the Macau government has the right to redeem the Subconcession Contract by providing us with at least one year’s prior notice. In the event the Macau government exercises this redemption right, we would be entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. The standards for the calculation of the amount of such compensation or indemnity would be determined based on the gross revenues generated by City of Dreams during the tax year immediately prior to the redemption, multiplied by the remaining term of the subconcession. We would not receive any further compensation (including for consideration paid to Wynn Macau for the subconcession). We cannot assure you that Melco Crown Macau would be able to renew or extend the Subconcession Contract on terms favorable to us, or at all. We also cannot assure you that if Melco Crown Macau’s subconcession were redeemed, the compensation paid would be adequate to compensate us for the loss of future revenues. Melco Crown Macau’s tax exemption from complementary tax on income from gaming operations under the subconcession tax will expire in 2016, and we may not be able to extend it. Companies in Macau are subject to complementary tax of up to 12% of taxable income, as defined in relevant tax laws. We are also subject to a 35% special gaming tax on our gaming revenues as well as other levies of 4% imposed under the Subconcession Contract. The other levies are subject to change on renegotiation of the Subconcession Contract and as a result of any change in relevant laws. The Macau government granted to Melco Crown Macau the benefit of a corporate tax holiday on gaming income in Macau for five years from 2007 to 2011 and the exemption has been extended for five years from 2012 through 2016. In addition, in 2014 the Macau government accepted an application by one of our subsidiaries in Macau for a corporate tax exemption until 2016 on amounts transferred to it by Melco Crown Macau, to the extent that such amounts result from gaming operations within Studio City and have been subject to gaming tax. The Macau government clarified that share dividends payment by such subsidiary would continue to be subject to complementary tax. However, we cannot assure you that the corporate tax holiday benefits will be extended beyond the expiration date. Pursuant to the proposed terms issued by the Macau government in December 2013 which was accepted by Melco Crown Macau in January 2014, during the 5-year extension of the corporate tax holiday, an annual lump sum of MOP22.4 million (equivalent to approximately US$2.8 million) is payable by Melco Crown Macau, effective retroactively from 2012 through 2016, with respect to tax due for dividend distributions to the shareholders of Melco Crown Macau from gaming profits, whether such dividends are actually distributed by 32 Table of Contents Melco Crown Macau or not, or whether Melco Crown Macau has distributable profits in the relevant year. With the payment of such lump sum the shareholders of Melco Crown Macau will not be liable to pay any other tax in Macau for dividend distributions received from gaming profits. We cannot assure you that the same arrangement will be applied beyond the expiration date of the corporate tax holiday and in case the same arrangement applies, whether we will be required to pay a higher annual sum. Visitation to Macau may decline due to increased restrictions on visitations to Macau from citizens of mainland China. A significant number of our gaming customers in Macau come from mainland China. Any travel restrictions imposed by China could disrupt the number of patrons visiting our properties in Macau from mainland China. Since mid-2003, under the Individual Visit Scheme, or IVS, mainland Chinese citizens from certain cities have been able to travel to Macau on an individual visa application basis and did not need to join a tour group which they would have otherwise been required to do. In mid-2008, the Chinese government adjusted its IVS visa policy toward Macau and limited the number of visits that some mainland Chinese citizens may make to Macau in a given time period. In addition, in May 2009, China placed certain restrictions on the operations of “below-cost” tour groups that involve low up-front payments and compulsory shopping. It is not known when, or if, policies similar to those implemented previously restricting visitation by mainland Chinese citizens to Macau and Hong Kong, will be put in place and visa policies may be adjusted, without notice, in the future. A decrease in the number of visitors from mainland China may adversely affect our results of operations. Risks Relating to the Gaming Industry and Our Business in the Philippines MCE Leisure Philippines leases the land and buildings comprising the site occupied by City of Dreams Manila. MCE Leisure Philippines entered into a lease agreement on October 25, 2012, which became effective on March 13, 2013 (“Lease Agreement”), where it leases the land and buildings occupied by City of Dreams Manila from Belle Corporation, which, in turn, leases part of the land from the Philippine government’s social security system (the “Social Security System”). Although MCE Leisure Philippines has not encountered any issues with respect to its tenancy relationship with Belle Corporation, there can be no assurance that such good relations will continue. Numerous potential issues or causes for disputes may arise from a tenancy relationship, such as with respect to the provision of utilities on the premises and the maintenance and normal repair of the buildings, any of which could result in an arbitrable dispute between Belle Corporation and MCE Leisure Philippines. There can be no assurance that any such dispute would be resolved or settled amicably or expediently. Furthermore, during the pendency of any dispute, Belle Corporation as landlord could discontinue essential services necessary for the operation of City of Dreams Manila, or seek relief to oust MCE Leisure Philippines from possession of the leased premises. Any prolonged or substantial dispute between Belle Corporation and MCE Leisure Philippines, or any dispute arising under the lease agreement between Belle Corporation and the Social Security System, could have a material adverse effect on the operations of City of Dreams Manila, which would in turn adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any negative publicity arising from the disputes or non-compliance by Belle Corporation with the lease terms would have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, the Lease Agreement may be terminated under certain circumstances, including MCE Leisure Philippines’ non-payment of rent, or if either party fails to substantially perform any material covenants under the Lease Agreement and fails to remedy such breach in a timely manner which would cause a material adverse effect on our business and prospects, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. 33 Table of Contents If the termination of certain agreements which Belle Corporation previously entered into with another casino operator and other third parties is not effective, such operator and third parties may seek to enforce these agreements against Belle Corporation or MCP as a co-licensee of Belle Corporation, which could adversely impact City of Dreams Manila and MCP. Prior to MCE Leisure Philippines being designated as the sole operator under the Provisional License, the former licensees of the Provisional License had previously entered into contracts with another operator and certain third-party contractors for the fit-out and other design work related to City of Dreams Manila in its previous form. Belle Corporation and the other Philippine Parties subsequently chose to terminate such pre-existing contracts and the operator signed a waiver releasing the Philippine Parties from all obligations under the contracts. Although Belle Corporation agreed to indemnify the MCE Philippine Parties from any loss suffered in connection with the termination of such contracts, there can be no assurance that Belle Corporation will honor such agreement. Any issues which arise from such contracts and their counterparties, or an attempt by another operator or any other third party contractors to enforce provisions under such contracts, could interfere with MCP’s operations or cause reputational damage, which would in turn materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with the terms of the Provisional License, MCP’s ability to operate City of Dreams Manila, and the success of City of Dreams Manila as a whole are dependent on the actions of other Philippine Licensees over which MCP has no control. Although MCE Leisure Philippines is the sole operator of City of Dreams Manila, the ability of the MCE Philippine Parties to operate City of Dreams Manila, as well as the fulfillment of the terms of the Provisional License granted by PAGCOR in relation to City of Dreams Manila, depends to a certain degree on the actions of the Philippine Parties. For example, the Philippine Parties, as well as the MCE Philippine Parties, are responsible for meeting a certain debt to equity ratio as specified in the Provisional License. The failure of any of the Philippine Parties to comply with these conditions will also result in a breach of the Provisional License. As the Philippine Parties are separate corporate entities over which MCP has no control, there can be no assurance that the Philippine Parties will remain in compliance with the terms of the Provisional License of their obligations and responsibilities under the Philippine Cooperation Agreement. In case any noncompliance issues arise, there can be no assurance that the Provisional License will not be suspended or revoked. In addition, if any of the Philippine Parties fails to comply with any conditions to the Provisional License, MCP may be forced to take action against the Philippine Parties under the Philippine Cooperation Agreement or to enter into negotiation with PAGCOR for amendments to the Provisional License. There can be no assurance that such an attempt to amend the Provisional License would be successful. Any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, under the Philippine Cooperation Agreement, the Philippine Parties are required to contribute the land and building structures for City of Dreams Manila. There can be no assurance that the title to the land and building structures for City of Dreams Manila will not be challenged by third parties or the Philippine government in the future. Any such event, each of which is beyond MCP’s control, may curtail the ability of MCP to operate City of Dreams Manila in an efficient manner or at all and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. MCE Leisure Philippines’ right to operate City of Dreams Manila is subject to certain limitations. MCE Leisure Philippines’ right to operate City of Dreams Manila is subject to certain limitations under the operating agreement for the management and operation of City of Dreams Manila, entered into among MCE Leisure Philippines and the Philippine Parties. For example, MCE Leisure Philippines is prohibited from entering into any contract for City of Dreams Manila outside the ordinary course of the operation and management of City of Dreams Manila with an aggregate contract value exceeding US$3.0 million (increased by 5.0% each year on the anniversary of the date of entry into the operating agreement) without the consent of the other Philippine 34 Table of Contents Licensees. In addition, MCE Leisure Philippines is required to remit specified percentages of the mass market and VIP gaming earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization or revenues derived from City of Dreams Manila to PremiumLeisure and Amusement Inc. (“PLAI”). If MCE Leisure Philippines is unable to comply with any of the provisions of the operating agreement, the other parties to the operating agreement may bring lawsuits and seek to suspend or replace MCE Leisure Philippines as the sole operator of City of Dreams Manila, or terminate the operating agreement. Moreover, the Philippine Parties may terminate the operating agreement, if MCE Leisure Philippines materially breaches the operating agreement. Termination of the operating agreement, whether resulting from MCE Leisure Philippines’ or the Philippine Parties’ non-compliance with the operating agreement, would cause a material adverse effect on our business and prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. MCE Leisure Philippines may be forced to suspend VIP gaming operations at City of Dreams Manila under certain circumstances. Under the operating agreement for City of Dreams Manila, MCE Leisure Philippines must periodically calculate, on a 24-month basis, the respective amounts of VIP gaming earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization derived from City of Dreams Manila (the “PLAI VIP EBITDA”) and VIP gaming net win derived from City of Dreams Manila pursuant to the operating agreement (the “PLAI VIP Net Win”) and report such amounts to the Philippine Parties. If the PLAI VIP EBITDA is less than the PLAI VIP Net Win, the Philippine Licensees must meet within 10 business days to discuss and review City of Dreams Manila’s financial performance and agree on any changes to be made to the payment terms under the operating agreement. If such an agreement cannot be reached within 90 business days, MCE Leisure Philippines must suspend VIP gaming operations at City of Dreams Manila, and the rent payable in respect of that part of the building designed primarily or exclusively for VIP gaming usage will be abated for as long as the VIP gaming operations are suspended. Any suspension of VIP gaming operations at City of Dreams Manila would materially adversely impact gaming revenues from City of Dreams Manila. Moreover, suspension of VIP gaming operations could effectively lead MCE Leisure Philippines to limit or suspend certain non-gaming operations focusing on VIP players, such as the VIP hotel and VIP lounge, which would further reduce revenues from City of Dreams Manila. A suspension of VIP gaming operations, even for a brief period of time, could also damage the reputation and reduce the attractiveness of City of Dreams Manila as a premium gaming destination, particularly among premium direct players and other VIP players, as well as gaming promoters, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. MCP may experience difficulty in managing the operations of City of Dreams Manila. City of Dreams Manila’s operations may need to develop rapidly as the Philippine gaming market matures and the three other holders of PAGCOR licenses in Entertainment City commence operations and develop their businesses. MCP may not be able to implement an effective business strategy to keep pace with the development of the Philippine gaming market. It may not be able to operate additional facilities or expand City of Dreams Manila. Any failure by MCP to develop within the Philippine gaming market or take advantage of the opportunities presented by a developing market may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. City of Dreams Manila’s ability to generate revenues depends to a substantial degree on the development of Manila and the Philippines as a tourist and gaming destination. The integrated casino resort and gaming industry in the Philippines is in an early stage of development and has a limited track record. It is difficult to evaluate the attractiveness of each of Entertainment City, Manila 35 Table of Contents and the Philippines, in general, as viable gaming destinations to domestic and international visitors. City of Dreams Manila’s ability to generate revenue depends to a substantial degree on the continued development of the Philippines as a tourist and gaming destination, which in turn depends on several factors beyond the control of MCP, including the Philippine government’s ability to successfully promote the Philippines as an attractive tourist destination, general promotion of the Philippines by the Philippine Department of Tourism and key tourism companies, the development of transportation and tourism infrastructure, consumer preferences and other factors in the Philippines and the region. Should the Philippines fail to continue to develop as a tourist destination or should Entertainment City or Manila fail to become a widely recognized regional gaming destination, City of Dreams Manila may fail to attract a sufficient number of visitors, which would cause a material adverse effect on our business and prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. MCP’s strategy to attract Premium Market customers to City of Dreams Manila may not be effective. A part of MCP’s strategy for City of Dreams Manila is to capture a share of the premium gaming market in the region. Compared to general market patrons, whose typical wagers are relatively low, premium market patrons usually have higher minimum bets. Despite its targeted marketing efforts, there can be no assurance that the premium market customers will be incentivized to play in City of Dreams Manila rather than in comparable properties in Macau or elsewhere in the region, as these players may be unfamiliar with the Philippines or refuse to change their normal gaming destination. If MCP is unable to expand in the premium market as it intends, this would adversely affect its and/or our business and results of operations. Changes in public acceptance of gaming in the Philippines may adversely affect City of Dreams Manila. Public acceptance of gaming changes periodically in various gaming locations in the world and represents an inherent risk to the gaming industry. In addition, the Philippine Catholic Church, community groups, non-governmental organizations and individual government officials have, on occasion, taken strong and explicit stands against gaming. PAGCOR has in the past been subject to lawsuits by individuals trying to halt the construction of casinos in their communities. Church leaders have on occasion called for the abolition of PAGCOR. There can be no guarantee that negative sentiments will not be expressed in the future against City of Dreams Manila or integrated casino resorts in general, which may reduce the number of visitors to City of Dreams Manila and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. MCP may be unable to successfully register City of Dreams Manila as a tourism enterprise zone with the Philippine Tourism Infrastructure and Enterprise Zone Authority, an agency of the Philippine Department of Tourism (“TIEZA”) While MCE Leisure Philippines intends to apply for a designation as a tourism enterprise with TIEZA, there can be no assurance that TIEZA will approve the designation of MCE Leisure Philippines as a tourism enterprise. If MCE Leisure Philippines is unable to register as a tourism enterprise with TIEZA, it will not be entitled to certain fiscal incentives provided to some of MCE Leisure Philippines’ competitors that may be registered as tourism enterprises under TIEZA. For example, MCP’s liability for Value Added Tax (“VAT”) on its sales largely depends on whether it may avail itself of tax incentives under TIEZA. If tax incentives under TIEZA are not available to MCP, it will be liable for VAT and these factors may result in a material adverse effect on our business and prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, if MCE Leisure Philippines is able to register as a tourism enterprise with TIEZA, it will then be required to withdraw its current registration as a tourism economic zone enterprise with the Philippine Economic Zone Authority. The process of shifting from a tourism economic zone enterprise under Philippine Economic Zone Authority to a tourism enterprise under TIEZA is uncertain. There is also uncertainty with respect to the fiscal incentives that may be provided to a registered tourism enterprise under TIEZA. Any of the foregoing results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 36 Table of Contents If MCP and its subsidiaries successfully registers with TIEZA and is entitled to an income tax holiday, it is entitled to an option to be subject to a special tax rate of 5% on gross income. If MCP and its subsidiaries exercises such option, its sales for non-gaming operations may be exempted from VAT, which is currently levied at a rate of 12% of gross selling price or gross value in money of the goods or properties sold. Any VAT liability may result in a material adverse effect on MCP and its subsidiaries’ business and prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. However, several House Bills and Senate Bills are currently pending in Congress with the view of rationalizing fiscal incentives which are currently granted to certain enterprises and activities, including tourism enterprises. It is uncertain what the effect will be on the incentives currently granted to qualified tourism enterprises under the Tourism Act, if and when such bills are passed into law. MCP’s gaming operations are dependent on the Provisional License issued by PAGCOR. PAGCOR regulates all gaming activities in the Philippines except for lottery, sweepstakes, jueteng, horse racing, and gaming inside the Cagayan Export Zone. City of Dreams Manila’s gaming areas may only legally operate under the Provisional License granted by PAGCOR, which imposes certain requirements on the MCE Philippine Parties and their service providers. The Provisional License is also subject to suspension or termination upon the occurrence of certain events. The requirements imposed by the Provisional License include, among others: • to pay license fees monthly to PAGCOR; • not to exceed a 70:30 debt-to-equity ratio for each of the Philippine Licensees; • to hire locally at least 95.0% of total employees of City of Dreams Manila; • to ensure at least 40.0% of City of Dreams Manila’s gaming personnel are exclusively supplied by PAGCOR, where practicable; • to purchase at least 90.0% of City of Dreams Manila’s furniture and fixtures from Philippine manufacturers; • to deposit US$100.0 million in an escrow account and maintain a minimum balance of US$50.0 million at all times; • to remit 2.0% of certain casino revenues and 5.0% of certain non-gaming revenues; and • to obtain a regular license to replace the Provisional License upon City of Dreams Manila’s completion and PAGCOR’s approval. Moreover, certain provisions and requirements of the Provisional License are open to different interpretations and have not been tested in Philippine courts or made subject to more detailed interpretative rules. There is no guarantee that the MCE Philippine Parties’ proposed mode of compliance with these or other requirements of the Provisional License will be free from administrative or judicial scrutiny in the future. Any difference in interpretation between PAGCOR and MCP with respect to the Provisional License could result in sanctions against the MCE Philippine Parties, including fines or other penalties, such as suspension or termination of the Provisional License. There can be no assurance that the Philippine Licensees will be able to continuously comply with all of the Provisional License’s requirements, or that the Provisional License will not be modified to contain more onerous terms or amended in such a manner that would cause the Philippine Licensees to lose interest in the operation of City of Dreams Manila. If the Provisional License is materially altered or revoked for any reason, including the failure by the Philippine Licensees to comply with its terms, or if a regular license is not issued upon City of Dreams Manila’s completion, MCP may be required to cease City of Dreams Manila’s gaming operations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of 37 Table of Contents operations. In addition, a failure in the internal control systems of MCP may cause PAGCOR to adversely modify or revoke the Provisional License. Finally, the Provisional License, or any regular license issued to replace the Provisional License, will terminate in 2033, coinciding with the PAGCOR Charter’s termination, and there is no guarantee that the PAGCOR Charter or the regular license issued to replace the Provisional License will be renewed. MCE Leisure Philippines, on behalf of the Philippines Licensees, has applied to PAGCOR for the issuance of a regular casino license on January 30, 2015. In addition, City of Dreams Manila’s gaming operations is highly regulated in the Philippines. As PAGCOR is also a gaming operator, there can be no assurance that PAGCOR will not withhold certain approvals from the MCE Philippine Parties in order to favor its own gaming operations. PAGCOR may also modify or impose additional conditions on its licensees or impose restrictions or limitations on MCE Leisure Philippines’ casino operations that would interfere with MCE Leisure Philippines’ ability to provide VIP services, which could adversely affect MCP’s business, financial condition and results of operations. City of Dreams Manila may be required to obtain an additional legislative franchise, in addition to its Provisional License or regular casino license, as the case may be. On March 5, 2012, the House of Representatives in the Philippines approved House Bill 5682, reverting to the Congress of the Philippines the right to grant legislative franchises to operators of games of chance, cards and numbers. Under House Bill 5682, PAGCOR will be prohibited from issuing casino, gaming and other similar licenses to operate without legislative franchises. Under House Bill 5682, the Philippine Licensees will be required to obtain from the Congress a legislative franchise to operate gambling casinos, gaming clubs and other similar gambling enterprises within one year from the date of the proposed law’s effectiveness. Non-compliance will be subject to cancellation of the license issued by PAGCOR. Further, House Bill 5682 provides that Congress shall have the authority to alter, amend or repeal any existing franchise, contract or similar arrangement when it is in the interest of the general welfare of the public. It is not yet known if House Bill 5682, in its current form, will be approved by the Senate or signed into law by the President of the Philippines. In the event that House Bill 5682 is signed into law, City of Dreams Manila may be required to obtain an additional legislative franchise in addition to its Provisional License or regular license, if granted, and there can be no assurance that such a franchise, which generally requires legislative approval after public hearings, will be granted. In addition, the Provisional License or regular license, if granted, may be subject to amendment or repeal in the event that Congress determines that the common good so requires. In the event City of Dreams Manila is not granted any required franchise, or the Provisional License or regular license, if granted, is materially amended or repealed, the operation of City of Dreams Manila may cease, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Recent investigations of bribery involving certain officials of PAGCOR and another holder of a provisional license granted by PAGCOR may result in wider investigation of all other provisional licenses. In February 2012, various articles reported that Kazuo Okada, a Japanese national and a principal of Universal Entertainment Group (which is the ultimate parent of Tiger Resort Leisure and Entertainment Inc.) was accused by former business partner, Steve Wynn of Wynn Resorts of bribery of gaming officials in certain jurisdictions. Although the allegations by Mr. Wynn against Mr. Okada and officials of PAGCOR have yet to be proven and Mr. Okada has categorically denied any improprieties, various agencies in the Philippines have already called for investigations into the matter. There can be no assurance that such investigations will not result in wider investigation of both former and present officials of PAGCOR who were involved in the approval and granting of all other provisional licenses. In addition, such investigations could also lead to suspension and even termination of any or all such provisional licenses which were granted under the authority of such PAGCOR officials, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, goodwill and operations. 38 Table of Contents The Philippine Licensees may be subject to corporate income tax unless the courts affirm the tax exemption in favor of holders of PAGCOR licenses. The Philippine Licensees may be subject to corporate income tax at the rate of 30% despite that they are entitled to pay license fees to PAGCOR “in lieu of all taxes” pursuant to the Provisional License. On March 2011, the Supreme Court of the Philippines pronounced the fact that PAGCOR’s exemption from corporate income tax under the PAGCOR Charter was implicitly revoked and PAGCOR has been removed from the list of government owned and controlled corporations that are exempt from paying corporate income tax. In relation to this, on April 2013, the BIR issued a Revenue Memorandum Circular indicating that PAGCOR and its licensees and contractees are subject to corporate income tax on its operations of gambling, casinos, gaming clubs and other similar recreation or amusement places and gaming pools. To mitigate the effects of the Supreme Court decision, PAGCOR, in May 2014, issued a regulation allowing the Philippine Licensees and the other casino operators a ten percent (10%) temporary reduction of the monthly Licensee Fees to be remitted to PAGCOR. This 10% will be used to pay any corporate income tax that may levied against the Philippine Licensees and the other casino operators at the end of the fiscal year, and any remaining amount after paying the said tax shall be remitted to PAGCOR. Recently, in February 2015, the Supreme Court issued a decision stating that PAGCOR’s income from its gaming operations can only be subject to a five percent (5%) franchise tax, and not to corporate income tax. The Supreme Court ruled that despite amendments to the National Internal Revenue Code, the PAGCOR Charter remains in effect, and thus, income from gaming operations shall not be subject to corporate income tax. However, the decision is not yet final at this point and may still be subject to a motion for reconsideration. Furthermore, House Bill No. 4934 was introduced in the House of Representatives of the Philippines which seeks to amend the provisions of the Philippines’ National Internal Revenue Code and levy a standard five percent (5%) franchise tax against all casino operators, in lieu of all national and local Philippine taxes. If passed into law, this will ensure that no casino operator will be subjected to corporate income tax (or any other tax on the casino operators’ business) and will only be subjected to a standard 5% franchise tax on gross revenue or earnings. This House Bill, however, is still the subject of deliberations and will still need to be approved by the Committee on Games and Amusement before it can be presented to the members of the House of Representatives for voting. There is also no assurance that the Senate of the Philippines will also approve the said bill to be enacted into law. MCP is exposed to risks in relation to MCP’s previous business activities and industry. Prior to our acquisition of MCP, MCP’s primary business was the manufacture and processing of pharmaceutical products. The pharmaceuticals industry is highly regulated in the Philippines and abroad. There can be no assurance that MCP will not, in the future, be involved in or subject to claims, allegations or suits with respect to its previous activities in the pharmaceutical industry, for which MCP may not be insured fully or at all. Although MCP has indemnities as to certain liabilities or claims or other protections put in place, any adverse claim or liability imputed to MCP with respect to its previous business activities could have a material adverse effect on its business and prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Risks Relating to Our Corporate Structure and Ownership Our existing shareholders will have a substantial influence over us, and their interests in our business may be different than yours. Melco and Crown together own a substantial majority of our outstanding shares, with each beneficially holding approximately 34.29% of our outstanding shares as of April 2, 2015. Melco and Crown have entered into a shareholders deed regarding the voting of their shares of our Company under which each agrees to, among other things, vote its shares in favor of three nominees to our board designated by the other. As a result, Melco and Crown, if they act together, will have the power, among other things, to elect directors to our board, 39 Table of Contents including six of ten directors who are designated nominees of Melco and Crown, appoint and change our management, affect our legal and capital structure and our day-to-day operations, approve material mergers, acquisitions, dispositions and other business combinations and approve any other material transactions and financings. These actions may be taken in many cases without the approval of independent directors or other shareholders and the interests of these shareholders may conflict with your interests as minority shareholders. Business conducted by a collaboration of different corporate groups involves certain risks. Melco and Crown are our controlling shareholders, with each holding approximately 34.29% of our total shares issued and outstanding as of April 2, 2015. With Melco and Crown being our controlling shareholders, there are special risks associated with the possibility that Melco and Crown may: (i) have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours or that are inconsistent with each other’s interests or goals, causing disagreement between them or between them and us which harms our business; (ii) have operations and projects elsewhere in Asia or other countries that compete with our businesses in Macau and the Philippines and for available resources and management attention within the joint venture group; (iii) take actions contrary to our policies or objectives; (iv) be unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations under the relevant joint venture or shareholders’ deed; or (v) have financial difficulties. In addition, there is no assurance that the laws and regulations relating to foreign investment in Melco’s or Crown’s governing jurisdictions will not be altered in such a manner as to result in a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Melco and Crown may pursue additional casino projects in Asia or elsewhere, which, along with their current operations, may compete with our projects in Macau and the Philippines, which could have material adverse consequences to us and the interests of our minority shareholders. Melco and Crown may take action to construct and operate new gaming projects located in other countries in the Asian region or elsewhere, which, along with their current operations, may compete with our projects in Macau and the Philippines and could have adverse consequences to us and the interests of our minority shareholders. We could face competition from these other gaming projects. We also face competition from regional competitors, which include Crown Melbourne in Melbourne, Australia and Crown Perth in Perth, Australia. We expect to continue to receive significant support from both Melco and Crown in terms of their local experience, operating skills, international experience and high standards. Should Melco or Crown decide to focus more attention on casino gaming projects located in other areas of Asia or elsewhere that may be expanding or commencing their gaming industries, or should economic conditions or other factors result in a significant decrease in gaming revenues and number of patrons in Macau and/or the Philippines, Melco or Crown may make strategic decisions to focus on their other projects rather than us, which could adversely affect our growth. Casinos and integrated gaming resorts are becoming increasingly popular in Asia, giving rise to more opportunities for industry participants and increasing regional competition. We cannot guarantee you that Melco and Crown will make strategic and other decisions which do not adversely affect our business. Changes in our share ownership, including a change of control of our subsidiaries’ shares owned collectively by Melco and Crown, could result in our subsidiaries’ inability to draw loans or cause events of default under our subsidiaries’ indebtedness, or could require our subsidiaries to prepay or make offers to repurchase certain indebtedness. Credit facility agreements relating to certain of our indebtedness contain change of control provisions, including in respect of our obligations relating to our control and/or ownership of certain of our subsidiaries and their assets. Under the terms of such credit facility agreements, the occurrence of certain change of control events, including a decline below certain thresholds in the aggregate direct or indirect shareholdings of Melco Crown Macau, MCE Finance, Studio City Investments Limited, MCE Cotai Investments Limited or certain of its subsidiaries held by us and/or Melco and Crown or certain of our subsidiaries (as the case may be) (and, in the 40 Table of Contents case of the decline of the shareholding of Melco Crown Macau under the 2011 Credit Facilities, which is accompanied by a ratings decline) may result in an event of default and/or a requirement to prepay the credit facilities in relation to such indebtedness in full. Other applicable change of control events under the credit facility agreements include the Company ceasing to be publicly listed on certain designated stock exchanges or steps being taken in connection with the liquidation or dissolution of MCE Finance. The terms of the Studio City Notes, 2013 Senior Notes and Philippine Notes also contain change of control provisions whereby the occurrence of a relevant change of control event will require us to offer to repurchase the Studio City Notes, 2013 Senior Notes or Philippine Notes (as the case may be) at a price equal to 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest and, if any, additional amounts and other amount specified under such indebtedness to the date of repurchase. Any occurrence of these events could be outside our control and could result in events of default and cross-defaults which may cause the termination and acceleration of our credit facilities, the Studio City Notes, 2013 Senior Notes and Philippine Notes and potential enforcement of remedies by our lenders, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Crown’s investment in our Company is subject to regulatory review in several jurisdictions and if regulators in those jurisdictions were to find that we, Crown or Melco failed to comply with certain regulatory requirements and standards, Crown may be required to withdraw from the joint venture. Crown wholly owns and operates Crown Melbourne in Melbourne, Australia and Crown Perth in Perth, Australia. Crown also fully owns and operates the Aspinalls Club in London. In addition, Crown owns a portfolio of gaming investments that have been accumulated to complement Crown’s existing core business. In all jurisdictions in which Crown, or any of its wholly owned subsidiaries, holds a gaming license or Crown has a significant investment in a company which holds gaming licenses, gaming regulators are empowered to investigate associates, including business associates of Crown, such as us, to determine whether the associate is of good repute and of sound financial resources. If, as a result of such investigation, the relevant gaming regulator determines that, by reason of its association, Crown has ceased to be suitable to hold a gaming license or to hold a substantial investment in the holder of a gaming license then the relevant gaming regulator may direct Crown to terminate its association or risk losing its gaming license or approval to invest in the holder of a gaming license in the relevant jurisdiction. If actions by us or our subsidiaries or by Melco or Crown fail to comply with the regulatory requirements and standards of the jurisdictions in which Crown owns or operates casinos or in which companies in which Crown holds a substantial investment own or operate casinos or if there are changes in gaming laws and regulations or the interpretation or enforcement of such laws and regulations in such jurisdictions, Crown may be required to withdraw from its investment in our Company or limit its involvement in one or more aspects of our gaming operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Withdrawal by Crown from its investment in our Company could cause the failure of conditions to drawing loans under our credit facilities or the occurrence of events of default under our credit facilities. Risks Relating to Our Financing and Indebtedness Our current, projected and potential future indebtedness could impair our financial condition, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our significant leverage. We have incurred and expect to incur, based on current budgets and estimates, secured and unsecured long-term indebtedness. Our major outstanding indebtedness as of December 31, 2014 includes: • approximately HK$3.2 billion (equivalent to approximately US$0.4 billion) under the 2011 Credit Facilities; 41 Table of Contents • US$825.0 million from Studio City Finance’s issuance of Studio City Notes; • US$1.0 billion from MCE Finance’s issuance of the 2013 Senior Notes; • approximately HK$10.1 billion (equivalent to approximately US$1.3 billion) under Studio City Project Facility; and • PHP15 billion (equivalent to approximately US$340 million at date of pricing) from MCE Leisure Philippines’ issuance of the Philippine Notes. Our expected long-term indebtedness includes: • financing for a significant portion of any future projects or phases of projects. Additionally, we may incur indebtedness for the fifth hotel tower at City of Dreams, depending upon our cash flow position during the construction period. Our significant indebtedness could have material consequences. For example, it could: • make it difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital needs, capital expenditure, acquisitions or general corporate purposes; • require us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which would reduce the funds available to us for our operations or expansion of our existing operations; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage as compared to our competitors, to the extent that they are not as leveraged; • subject us to higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates to the extent a portion of our debt bears interest at variable rates; • cause us to incur additional expenses by hedging interest rate exposures of our debt and exposure to hedging counterparties’ failure to pay under such hedging arrangements, which would reduce the funds available for us for our operations; and • in the event we or one of our subsidiaries were to default, result in the loss of all or a substantial portion of our own and our subsidiaries’ assets, over which our lenders have taken or will take security. Any of these or other consequences or events could have a material adverse effect on our ability to satisfy our other debt obligations. We may require additional financing to complete our investment projects, which may not be available on satisfactory terms or at all. We have funded our capital investment projects through, among others, cash generated from our operations, credit facilities and the issuance of the 2010 Senior Notes, RMB Bonds, 2013 Senior Notes, Studio City Notes and Philippine Notes. We will require additional funding in the future for our capital investment projects, including the fifth hotel tower at City of Dreams, the next phase at Studio City and other projects, which we may raise through debt or equity financing. We may be required to seek the approval or consent of or notify the relevant government authorities or third parties in order to obtain such financings. For example, the grant of the shareholder loan by MCE (Philippines) Investments Limited to MCE Leisure Philippines pursuant to the loan agreement for a term loan facility of up to US$340 million dated December 23, 2013 for the City of Dreams 42 Table of Contents Manila project is subject to the prior approval from Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, the central bank of the Philippines. There is no assurance that we would be able to obtain such required approval or consent from the relevant government authorities or third parties with respect to such financing in a timely manner or at all. Any financing related to our capital investment projects may also be subject to, among others, the terms of credit facilities, 2013 Senior Notes, Studio City Notes and Philippine Notes. In addition, our ability to obtain debt or equity financing on acceptable terms, depends on a variety of factors that are beyond our control, including market conditions, investors’ and lenders’ perceptions of, and demand for, debt and equity securities of gaming companies, credit availability and interest rates. For example, changes in ratings outlooks may subject us to ratings agency downgrades, which could make it more difficult for us to obtain financing on acceptable terms. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain sufficient funding on terms satisfactory to us, or at all, to finance our capital investment projects. If we are unable to obtain such funding, our business, cash flow, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service obligations. Our ability to make scheduled payments due on our existing and anticipated debt obligations, including our credit facilities, the 2013 Senior Notes, Studio City Notes and Philippine Notes, to refinance and to fund working capital needs, planned capital expenditure and development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash. We will require generation of sufficient operating cash flow from our projects to service our current and future projected indebtedness. Our ability to obtain cash to service our existing and projected debts is subject to a range of economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • our future operating performance; • the demand for services that we provide; • general economic conditions and economic conditions affecting Macau, the Philippines or the gaming industry in particular; • our ability to hire and retain employees and management at a reasonable cost; • competition; and • legislative and regulatory factors affecting our operations and business. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our existing and projected debt obligations or our other liquidity needs, in which case, we may have to seek additional borrowings or undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our ability to incur additional borrowings or refinance our indebtedness, including our credit facilities, the 2013 Senior Notes, Studio City Notes and Philippine Notes, will depend on the condition of the financing and capital markets, our financial condition at such time and potentially governmental approval. We cannot assure you that any additional borrowing, refinancing or restructuring would be possible, that any assets could be sold, or, if sold, of the timing of the sales or the amount of proceeds that would be realized from those sales. We cannot assure you that additional financing could be obtained on acceptable terms, if at all, or would be permitted under the terms of our various debt instruments then in effect, including the indentures governing the 2013 Senior Notes, Studio City Notes and Philippine Notes. In addition, any failure to make scheduled payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our failure to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our existing and projected debt obligations or other liquidity needs, or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 43 Table of Contents The Studio City Project Facility imposes certain conditions for the formal opening of Studio City and the failure to satisfy such conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business. Under the Studio City Project Facility, we are required to satisfy certain conditions relating to formal opening of the property by October 1, 2016. These conditions require, among others, the full opening of Studio City for business to the general public by October 1, 2016, with a minimum 400 gaming tables available for operation, and a minimum area of public floor space occupied and open for operations. In the event that we are unable to meet these conditions, it may constitute an event of default under the Studio City Project Facility. Any such event of default could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to the Studio City Project Facility to become due and payable immediately and entitle the lenders to take enforcement actions (unless the event of default is waived, or the debt is restructured or repaid). In addition, such event, or a consequent acceleration, could result in an event of default and payment acceleration under one or more of our other debt instruments such as the Studio City Note. The occurrence of an event of default under the Studio City Project Facility, or any of our other debt instruments, could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in our debt agreements, including, among others, the 2011 Credit Facilities, Studio City Project Facility, the indenture governing the 2013 Senior Notes, Studio City Notes and Philippine Notes there could be a default under the terms of these agreements or the indenture, which could cause repayment of our debt to be accelerated. If we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in our current or future debt obligations including the 2011 Credit Facilities, Studio City Project Facility and other agreements, or the indenture governing 2013 Senior Notes, Studio City Notes and Philippine Notes, there could be a default under the terms of these agreements. In the event of a default under these agreements, the holders of the debt could terminate their commitments to lend to us, accelerate repayment of the debt and declare all amounts borrowed due and payable or terminate the agreements, as the case may be. Furthermore, some of our debt agreements contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. As a result, our default under one debt agreement may cause the acceleration of repayment of debt or result in a default under our other debt agreements. If any of these events occur, we cannot assure you that our assets and cash flow would be sufficient to repay in full all of our indebtedness, or that we would be able to find alternative financing. Even if we could obtain alternative financing, we cannot assure you that it would be on terms that are favorable or acceptable to us. The terms of the 2011 Credit Facilities may restrict our current and future operations and harm our ability to complete our projects and grow our business operations to compete successfully against our competitors. The 2011 Credit Facilities and associated facility and security documents that Melco Crown Macau has entered into also contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on Melco Crown Macau and certain of its subsidiaries and therefore, effectively, on us. The covenants in the 2011 Credit Facilities restrict or limit, among other things, our and our subsidiaries’ ability to: • incur additional debt, including guarantees; • create security or liens; • sell, transfer or dispose of assets; • make certain investments; • make loans, payments on certain indebtedness, distributions and other restricted payments or apply revenues earned in one part of our operations to fund development costs or cover operating losses in another part of our operations; • make payments for fees or goods and services to our controlling shareholders, unless on normal commercial terms; 44 Table of Contents • vary Melco Crown Macau’s Subconcession Contract or Melco Crown Macau and certain of its subsidiaries’ land concessions and certain other contracts; and • other than as agreed and provided for pursuant to the lender-approved plans (as approved under the terms of the 2011 Credit Facilities), enter into contracts for construction or financing of the fifth hotel tower at City of Dreams. In addition, the restrictions under the 2011 Credit Facilities contain financial covenants, including requirements that we satisfy certain tests or ratios such as leverage, total leverage and interest cover, each as defined in the 2011 Credit Facilities. Restrictions also provide that should a change of control, as defined in the 2011 Credit Facilities, occur, the facility will be cancelled and all amounts outstanding thereunder become immediately due and payable. These covenants may restrict our ability to operate and restrict our ability to incur additional debt or other financing we may require, and impede our growth. Our operations are restricted by the terms of the 2013 Senior Notes, which could limit our ability to plan for or to react to market conditions or meet our capital needs. The indenture governing the 2013 Senior Notes includes a number of significant restrictive covenants. Such covenants restrict, among other things, the ability of MCE Finance and its subsidiaries to: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; • make specified restricted payments, including dividends; • issue or sell capital stock of our restricted subsidiaries; • sell assets; • create liens; • enter into agreements that restrict the ability of the restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends, transfer assets or make intercompany loans; • enter into transactions with shareholders or affiliates; and • effect a consolidation or merger. These covenants could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or to meet our capital needs. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and we may have to curtail some of our operations and growth plans to maintain compliance. Studio City Project Facility and the indenture governing Studio City Notes contain covenants that will restrict our ability to engage in certain transactions and may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. Studio City Project Facility and the indenture governing Studio City Notes imposes operating and financial restrictions on Studio City Finance and its subsidiaries. The restrictions that will be imposed under these debt instruments will include, among other things, limitations on the ability of Studio City Finance and its subsidiaries to: • pay dividends or distributions on account of equity interests; • incur additional debt, including guarantees; • make investments; 45 Table of Contents • create liens on assets; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • engage in other businesses; • merge or consolidate with another company; • sell, transfer or dispose of assets; • issue preferred stock; • create dividend and other payment restrictions affecting subsidiaries; and • designate restricted and unrestricted subsidiaries. Studio City Project Facility also requires Studio City Investments Limited and its subsidiaries to satisfy various financial covenants based on specified financial ratios, including the following: • cash flow to debt service; • EBITDA to finance charges; • senior first lien debt to EBITDA; and • total debt to EBITDA. These covenants and restrictions may limit how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and we may have to curtail some of our operations and growth plans to maintain compliance. Our City of Dreams Manila operations may be restricted by the terms of the Philippine Notes, which could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet our capital needs. The indenture governing the Philippine Notes includes a number of significant restrictive covenants. Such covenants restrict, among other things, the ability of MCP and its subsidiaries, including MCE Leisure Philippines to: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; • sell all or substantially all of MCP or any of its subsidiaries’ assets; • create liens on assets; and • effect a consolidation or merger. These covenants could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or to meet our capital needs. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and we may have to curtail some of our operations and growth plans to maintain compliance. Drawdown or rollover of advances under our debt facilities involve satisfaction of extensive conditions precedent and our failure to satisfy such conditions precedent will result in our inability to access or roll over loan advances under such facilities. There is no assurance that we will be able to satisfy all conditions precedent under our current or future debt facilities. Our current and future debt facilities, including the 2011 Credit Facilities and Studio City Project Facility, require and will require satisfaction of extensive conditions precedent prior to the advance or rollover of loans under such facilities. The satisfaction of such conditions precedent may involve actions of third parties and 46 Table of Contents matters outside of our control, such as government consents and approvals. If there is a breach of any terms or conditions of our debt facilities or other obligations and it is not cured or capable of being cured, such conditions precedent will not be satisfied. The inability to draw down or roll over loan advances in any debt facility may result in a funding shortfall in our operations and we may not be able to fulfill our obligations as planned; such events may result in an event of default under such debt facility and may also trigger cross default in our other obligations and debt facilities. We do not guarantee that all conditions precedent to draw down or roll over loan advances under our debt facilities will be satisfied in a timely manner or at all. If we are unable to draw down or roll over loan advances under any current or future facility, we may have to find a new group of lenders and negotiate new financing terms or consider other financing alternatives. If required, it is possible that new financing would not be available or would have to be procured on substantially less attractive terms, which could damage the economic viability of the relevant development project. The need to arrange such alternative financing would likely also delay the construction and/or operations of our future projects or existing properties, which would affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Our failure to comply with the covenants contained in our or our subsidiaries’ indebtedness, including failure as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default that could materially and adversely affect our cash flow, operating results and our financial condition. If there were an event of default under one of our or our subsidiaries’ debt facilities, the holders of the debt on which we defaulted could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to become due and payable immediately. In addition, any event of default or declaration of acceleration under one debt facility could result in an event of default under one or more of our other debt instruments, with the result that all of our debt would be in default and accelerated. We cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt facilities, either upon maturity or if accelerated upon an event of default, or that we would be able to refinance or restructure the payments on those debt facilities. Further, if we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness at our subsidiaries that own or operate our properties, the lenders under those debt facilities could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness, which will constitute substantially all the assets and shares of our subsidiaries. In that event, any proceeds received upon a realization of the collateral would be applied first to amounts due under those debt facilities. The value of the collateral may not be sufficient to repay all of our indebtedness. Any inability to maintain current financing or obtain future financing could result in delays in our project development schedule and could impact our ability to generate revenues from operations at our present and future projects. If we are unable to maintain our current debt facility or obtain suitable financing for our operations and our current or future projects (including any acquisitions we may make), this could adversely impact our existing operations, or cause delays in, or prevent completion of, the development of the fifth hotel tower at City of Dreams and Studio City and any other future projects. This may limit our ability to operate and expand our business and may adversely impact our ability to generate revenue. The costs incurred by any new financing may be greater than anticipated due to the turmoil in credit markets. Such increase in funding costs may have a negative impact on our revenue and financial condition. Risks Relating to Our Shares and ADSs The trading price of our ADSs has been volatile since our ADSs began trading on Nasdaq, and may be subject to fluctuations in the future. The market price for our shares may also be volatile, which could result in substantial losses to investors. The trading price of our ADSs has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. Our ADSs were first quoted on the Nasdaq Global Market, or Nasdaq, beginning on December 19, 2006, and were upgraded to trade on the Nasdaq Global Select Market on January 2, 2009. During the period from December 19, 2006 47 Table of Contents until April 2, 2015, the trading prices of our ADSs ranged from US$2.27 to US$45.70 per ADS and the closing sale price on April 2, 2015 was US$23.10 per ADS. The market price for our shares and ADSs may continue to be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • uncertainties or delays relating to the financing, completion and successful operation of our projects; • developments in the Macau market, the Philippine market or other Asian gaming markets, including the announcement or completion of major new projects by our competitors; • general economic, political or other factors that affect the region where our properties are located; • regulatory developments affecting us or our competitors; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other gaming and leisure industry companies; • changes in our market share of the Macau gaming market and/or the Philippine gaming market; • addition or departure of our executive officers and key personnel; • fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar, H.K. dollar, Pataca, Renminbi and Philippine peso; • release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding shares; • sales or perceived sales of additional shares or ADSs or securities convertible or exchangeable or exercisable for shares or ADSs; and • rumors related to any of the above. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs and shares. We cannot assure you that we will make dividend payments in the future. On February 25, 2014, we adopted a dividend policy to distribute quarterly dividends in an aggregate amount per year of approximately 30% of annual consolidated net income attributable to Melco Crown Entertainment, subject to our ability to pay dividends from our accumulated and future earnings and our cash balance and future commitments at the time of declaration of any dividend. We cannot assure you that we will make any dividend payments on our shares in the future. Dividend payments will depend upon a number of factors, including our results of operations, earnings, capital requirements and surplus, general financial conditions, contractual restrictions and other factors considered relevant by our board. Except as permitted under the Companies Law, as amended, of the Cayman Islands, or the Cayman Companies Law, and the common law of the Cayman Islands, we are not permitted to distribute dividends unless we have a profit, realized or unrealized, or a reserve set aside from profits which our directors determine is no longer needed. Our ability, or the ability of our subsidiaries, to pay dividends is further subject to restrictive covenants contained in the 2011 Credit Facilities, 2013 Senior Notes, Studio City Notes, Studio City Project Facility and other facility agreements governing indebtedness we and our subsidiaries may incur. Such restrictive covenants contained in the 2011 Credit Facilities and the Studio City Project Facility include satisfaction of certain financial tests and conditions such as continued compliance with specified interest cover and leverage ratios and, if a cash distribution, ensuring that the dividend payment amount does not exceed a certain amount of our cash and cash equivalent investments and that as a result of such dividend payment we still hold a certain 48 Table of Contents amount of cash and cash equivalent investments. The 2013 Senior Notes and Studio City Notes also contain certain covenants restricting payment of dividends by MCE Finance and its subsidiaries and Studio City Finance and its subsidiaries, respectively. For more details, please see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — B. Liquidity and Capital Resources — Indebtedness.” Substantial future sales or perceived sales of our shares or ADSs in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs and shares to decline. Sales of our ADSs or shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our shares and ADSs to decline. Upon expiration of the lock-up agreements, all of the shares beneficially held by Melco and Crown are available for sale, subject to volume and other restrictions, as applicable, under Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, or the Securities Act, and subject to the terms of their shareholders’ deed. To the extent these or other shares are sold into the market, the market price of our shares and ADSs could decline. The ADSs represent interests in our shares. We would, subject to market forces, expect there to be a close correlation in the price of our ADSs and the price of the shares and any factors contributing to a decline in one market is likely to result to a similar decline in another. In addition, Melco and Crown have the right to cause us to register the sale of their shares under the Securities Act, subject to the terms of their shareholders’ deed. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in these shares becoming freely tradable as ADSs without restriction under the Securities Act immediately upon the effectiveness of the registration statement. Sales of these registered shares in the public market could cause the price of our share and ADSs to decline. Any decision by us to raise further equity in the markets in the U.S. or Hong Kong, which would result in dilution to existing shareholders, could cause the price of our ADSs and shares to decline. Holders of ADSs have fewer rights than shareholders and must act through the depositary to exercise those rights. Holders of ADSs do not have the same rights of our shareholders and may only exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares of the depositary and in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under our Articles, the minimum notice period required to convene a general meeting is seven days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw your ordinary shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your ADSs. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ADSs are not voted as you requested. In addition, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to convene a shareholder meeting. You may be subject to limitations on transfers of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. 49 Table of Contents Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings and you may not receive cash dividends if it is unlawful or impractical to make them available to you. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary bank will not make rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act, or exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. In addition, the depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is unlawful, inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute such property and you will not receive such distribution. We are a Cayman Islands exempted company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than that under U.S. law, you may have less protection for your shareholder rights than you would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Companies Law and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against our directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Companies Law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as that from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary duties of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of our board or controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a U.S. public company. You may have difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us. We are a Cayman Islands exempted company and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. All of our current operations, and administrative and corporate functions are conducted in Macau, Hong Kong and the Philippines. In addition, substantially all of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in Cayman Islands, Macau, Hong Kong and Philippine courts judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. 50 Table of Contents federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands, Macau, Hong Kong or the Philippines would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. In addition, it is uncertain whether such Cayman Islands, Macau, Hong Kong or the Philippine courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, Macau, Hong Kong or the Philippines against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares. Based on the market price of our ADSs and ordinary shares, and the composition of our income and assets, we do not believe we were a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for our taxable year ended December 31, 2014. However, the application of the PFIC rules is subject to uncertainty in several respects, and we cannot assure you we will not be a PFIC for any taxable year. A non-U.S. corporation will be a PFIC for any taxable year if either (i) at least 75% of its gross income for such year is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets) during such year is attributable to assets that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income. A separate determination must be made after the close of each taxable year as to whether we were a PFIC for that year. Because the value of our assets for purposes of the PFIC test will generally be determined by reference to the market price of our ADSs and ordinary shares, a significant decrease in the market price of the ADSs and ordinary shares may cause us to become a PFIC. In addition, changes in the composition of our income or assets may cause us to become a PFIC. If we are a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. Holder (as defined in “Item 10. Additional Information — E. Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation”) holds an ADS or ordinary share, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could apply to such U.S. Holder. For example, such U.S. Holder may incur a significantly increased U.S. federal income tax liability on the receipt of certain distributions on our ADSs or ordinary shares or on any gain recognized from a sale or other disposition of our ADSs or ordinary shares. See “Item 10. Additional Information — E. Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation — Passive Foreign Investment Company.” 51 Table of Contents 