Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider the following factors in evaluating our business and prospects, in addition to the other information included in this annual report. We are a newly formed, development stage company with limited operating history and no revenues from operations and, accordingly, you will not have any basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a recently incorporated development stage company with limited operating results. Because we have a limited operating history, you will have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to acquire an operating business. We will not generate any revenues until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business combination. We may not be able to consummate a business combination within the required time frame, in which case, we would be forced to liquidate. We must complete a business combination on or before May 18, 2009 with a business or businesses whose fair market value is at least 80% of our net assets at the time of the business combination (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions of approximately $3.45 million). If we fail to consummate a business combination within the required time frame, we will be forced to liquidate our assets. We may not be able to consummate a business combination for any number of reasons. We may not be able to find suitable target businesses within the required time frame. In addition, our negotiating position and our ability to conduct adequate due diligence on any potential target may be reduced as we approach the deadline for the consummation of a business combination. Furthermore, we will be unable to consummate a business combination if holders of 30% or more of the shares underlying the units sold in our initial public offering vote against the transaction and opt to convert their common shares into a pro rata share of the trust account, even if a majority of our stockholders approve the transaction. If we fail to complete a specific business combination after expending substantial management time and attention and incurring substantial costs for accountants, attorneys, and others, such costs likely would not be recoverable, which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and combine with another target business within the required time frame. 14 If we are forced to liquidate before a business combination and distribute the trust account, our public stockholders will receive less than $8.00 per share and our warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to complete a business combination within the prescribed time frames and are forced to liquidate our assets, the per-share liquidation distribution will be less than $8.00 because of the expenses of our initial public offering, our general and administrative expenses and the anticipated costs of seeking a business combination. Furthermore, there will be no liquidating distribution with respect to our outstanding warrants, which will expire worthless if we liquidate before the completion of a business combination. If the net proceeds of our initial public offering available to us outside of the trust account are insufficient to allow us to operate until May 18, 2009, we may be unable to complete a business combination. Following the consummation of our initial public offering, there were funds available to us outside of the trust account of $50,000, plus amounts that we need to pay our income or other tax obligations and up to an additional $1,750,000 that may be released to us to fund our expenses relating to investigating and selecting a target business and other working capital requirements, which will be funded solely from interest earned on the trust balance. We believe that these funds will be sufficient to allow us to operate until May 18, 2009, assuming that a business combination is not consummated during that time. However, we cannot assure you that our estimates will be accurate. We may request the release of such funds for a number of purposes that may not ultimately lead to a business combination. For instance, we could use a portion of the funds available to us to pay fees to consultants to assist us with our search for a target business. We could also use a portion of the funds as a down payment with respect to a particular proposed business combination, or enter into a letter of intent where we pay for the right to receive exclusivity from a target business, where we may be required to forfeit funds (whether as a result of our breach or otherwise). In any of these cases, or in other situations where we expend the funds available to us outside of the trust account for purposes that do not result in a business combination, we may not have sufficient remaining funds to continue searching for, or to conduct due diligence with respect to, a target business, in which case we would be forced to obtain alternative financing or liquidate. Because there are numerous companies with a business plan similar to ours seeking to effectuate a business combination, it may be more difficult for us to do so. As of March 14, 2008, based upon publicly available information, approximately 155 similarly structured blank check companies have completed initial public offerings in the United States since August 2003. Of these companies, only 47 companies have consummated a business combination, while 25 other companies have announced they have entered into a definitive agreement for a business combination, but have not consummated such business combination, and while 11 companies have dissolved or announced their intention to dissolve and return proceeds to investors. Accordingly, there are approximately 72 blank check companies with more than approximately $13.2 billion in trust that are seeking to carry out a business plan similar to our business plan. Furthermore, as of March 14, 2008, there are approximately 83 additional blank check companies that are still in the registration process but have not completed initial public offerings, which will have approximately $14.9 billion in trust upon completion of the offerings, and there are likely to be more blank check companies filing registration statements for initial public offerings after the date of this annual report and prior to our completion of a business combination. While some of those companies must complete a business combination in specific industries, a number of them may consummate a business combination in any industry they choose. Therefore, we may be subject to competition from these and other companies seeking to carry out a business plan similar to ours. Because of this competition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectuate a business combination within the required time period. We will depend on interest earned on the trust account to fund our search for a target business or businesses, to pay our tax obligations and to complete our initial business combination. We depend on sufficient interest being earned on the proceeds held in the trust account to provide us with additional working capital we will need to identify one or more target businesses and to complete our initial business combination, as well as to pay any tax obligations that we may owe. While we are entitled to have released to us for such purposes up to $1,750,000 of interest earned on the funds in the trust account, a substantial decline in interest rates may result in our having insufficient funds available with which to structure, negotiate or close an initial business combination. In such event, we would need to borrow funds from our management team to operate or may be forced to liquidate. However, neither our management team nor any other party is required to provide financing to us under any circumstances. 15 If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per-share liquidation price received by stockholders will be less than $7.89. Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we are seeking to have all vendors and service providers we engage and prospective target businesses we negotiate with execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind whatsoever in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that, even if such entities execute such agreements with us, they will not seek recourse against the trust account, or if executed, that such waivers will be enforceable or otherwise prevent potential contracted parties from making claims against the trust account. Nor is there any guarantee that a court would uphold the validity of such agreements. Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims which could take priority over those of our public stockholders and, as a result, the per-share liquidation price could be less than $7.89 due to claims of such third parties. If we liquidate before the completion of a business combination and distribute the proceeds held in trust to our public stockholders, Andrew Intrater, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, has agreed that he will be personally liable to ensure that the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced by the claims of target businesses or claims of vendors or other entities that are owed money by us for services rendered or contracted for or products sold to us. Because we are seeking to have all vendors and prospective target businesses execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind whatsoever they may have in or to any monies held in the trust account, we believe the likelihood of Mr. Intrater having any such obligations is minimal. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we have questioned Mr. Intrater on his financial net worth and reviewed his financial information and believe that he will be able to satisfy any indemnification obligations that may arise. However, we cannot assure you that he will be able to satisfy those obligations. Therefore, if we liquidate, we cannot assure you that the per-share distribution from the trust fund will not be less than $7.89, plus interest, due to such claims. Furthermore, creditors may seek to interfere with the distribution of the trust account pursuant to federal or state creditor and bankruptcy laws, which could delay the actual distribution of such funds or reduce the amount ultimately available for distribution to our public stockholders. If we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, the proceeds held in the trust account could be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our stockholders. Any claims by creditors could cause additional delays in the distribution of trust funds to the public stockholders beyond the time periods required to comply with Delaware General Corporation Law procedures and federal securities laws and regulations. To the extent any bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account, we cannot assure you we will be able to return to our public stockholders at least $7.89 per share. Our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that we will continue in existence only until May 18, 2009. If we have not completed a business combination by such date and amended this provision in connection therewith, pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law, our corporate existence will cease except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating. Under Sections 280 through 282 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in dissolution. If the corporation complies with certain procedures set forth in Section 280 of the Delaware General Corporation Law intended to ensure that it makes reasonable provision for all claims against it, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against the corporation, a 90-day period during which the corporation may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions are made to stockholders, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder's pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. However, it is our intention to make liquidating distributions to our stockholders as soon as reasonably possible after May 18, 2009 and, therefore, we do not intend to comply with those procedures. Because we will not be complying with those procedures, we are required, pursuant to Section 281 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, to adopt a plan that will provide for our payment, based on facts known to us at such time, of (i) all existing claims, (ii) all pending claims and (iii) all claims that may be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years. Accordingly, we would be required to provide for any creditors known to us at that time or those that we believe could be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years prior to distributing the funds held in the trust to stockholders. We cannot assure you that we will properly assess all claims that may be potentially brought against us. As such, our stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them (but no more) and any liability of our stockholders may extend well beyond the third anniversary of such date. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from our stockholders amounts owed to them by us. 16 Additionally, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, any distributions received by stockholders in our dissolution could be viewed under applicable debtor/creditor and/or bankruptcy laws as either a "preferential transfer" or a “fraudulent conveyance.” As a result, a bankruptcy court could seek to recover all amounts received by our stockholders in our dissolution. Because we intend to distribute the proceeds held in the trust account to our public stockholders promptly after May 18, 2009, this may be viewed or interpreted as giving preference to our public stockholders over any potential creditors with respect to access to or distributions from our assets. Furthermore, our board may be viewed as having breached their fiduciary duties to our creditors and/or may have acted in bad faith, and thereby exposing itself and our company to claims of punitive damages, by paying public stockholders from the trust account prior to addressing the claims of creditors. We cannot assure you that claims will not be brought against us for these reasons. An effective registration statement may not be in place when an investor desires to exercise warrants, thus precluding such investor from being able to exercise his, her or its warrants and causing such warrants to be practically worthless No warrant will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue our common shares unless at the time a holder seeks to exercise such warrant, a prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrant is current and the common stock has been registered with the SEC or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the applicable state and federal securities laws. Under the terms of the warrant agreement, we have agreed to use our best efforts to meet these conditions and to maintain a current prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants until the expiration of the warrants. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so, and if we do not maintain a current prospectus related to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants, holders will be unable to exercise their warrants and we will not be required to settle any such warrant exercise. If the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not current or if the common stock is not exempt from registration, the warrants may have no value, the market for the warrants may be limited and the warrants may expire worthless. An investor will only be able to exercise a warrant if the issuance of common stock upon such exercise has been registered or qualified or is deemed exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. No warrants will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue common shares underlying the warrants unless the common shares issuable upon such exercise have been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt from registration or qualification under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of such warrants. Because the exemptions from qualification in certain states for resales of warrants and for issuances of common stock by the issuer upon exercise of a warrant may be different, a warrant may be held by a holder in a state where an exemption is not available for issuance of common stock upon an exercise and the holder will be precluded from exercise of the warrant. At the time that the warrants become exercisable (following our completion of a business combination), we expect to either continue to be listed on a national securities exchange, which (under current laws) would provide an exemption from registration in every state, or we would register the warrants in every state (or seek another exemption from registration in such states). Accordingly, we believe holders in every state will be able to exercise their warrants as long as our prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is current. However, we cannot assure you of this fact. As a result, the warrants may be deprived of any value, the market for the warrants may be limited and the holders of warrants may not be able to exercise their warrants if the common stock issuable upon such exercise is not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdiction in which the holders of the warrants reside. 17 Since we have not yet selected a particular industry or target business with which to complete a business combination, we are unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of the industry or business in which we may ultimately operate. We may consummate a business combination with a company in any industry we choose and are not limited to any particular industry or type of business. Accordingly, there is no current basis for you to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the particular industry in which we may ultimately operate or the target business which we may ultimately acquire. To the extent we complete a business combination with a company that does not have a stable history of earnings and growth or an entity in a relatively early stage of its development, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of those entities. If we complete a business combination with an entity in an industry characterized by a high level of risk, we may be affected by the currently unascertainable risks of that industry. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular industry or target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. Even if we properly assess those risks, some of them may be outside of our control or ability to affect. We also cannot assure you that an investment in our units will not ultimately prove to be less favorable to investors in our initial public offering than a direct investment, if an opportunity were available, in a target business. We may issue shares of our capital stock or debt securities to complete a business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and likely cause a change in control of our ownership. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 39,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $.0001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.0001 per share. We currently have 2,225,000 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of the shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants and the unit purchase option granted to Lazard Capital Markets LLC) and all of the 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. Although we have no commitment as of the date of this annual report to issue additional shares of our common or preferred stock, we may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common or preferred stock, or a combination of common and preferred stock, including through convertible debt securities, to complete a business combination. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock: · may significantly reduce the equity interest of our public stockholders; · may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if we issue preferred stock with rights senior to those afforded to our common stock; · will likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and · may adversely affect the then-prevailing market price for our common stock. Similarly, if we issue debt securities, it could result in: · default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating cash flow after a business combination is insufficient to pay our debt obligations; · acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we make all principal and interest payments when due, if we breach certain covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; · a required immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; and · our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt security is outstanding. 18 Our long-term success will likely be dependent upon a yet to be identified management team which you will not be able to fully evaluate prior to purchasing our units. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination is dependent upon the efforts of our management team. The future role of our management team in the target business, however, cannot presently be ascertained. Although it is possible that some members of our management team will remain associated in various capacities with the target business following a business combination, it is likely that the management team of the target business at the time of the business combination will remain in place given that it is likely that they will have greater knowledge, experience and expertise than our management team in the industry in which the target business operates as well as in managing the target business. Thus, even though our management team may continue to be associated with us in various capacities after a business combination, it is likely that we will be dependent upon a yet to be identified management team for our long-term success. As a result, you will not be able to fully evaluate the management team that we will likely be dependent upon for our long-term success prior to purchasing our units in our initial public offering. Although we intend to closely scrutinize the management team of a prospective target business in connection with evaluating the desirability of effecting a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of the management team will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company and the securities laws, which could increase the time and resources we must expend to assist them in becoming familiar with the complex disclosure and financial reporting requirements imposed on U.S. public companies. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues that may adversely affect our operations. We will likely seek a business combination with one or more privately-held companies, which may present certain challenges to us, including the lack of available information about these companies. In accordance with our acquisition strategy, we will likely seek a business combination with one or more privately-held companies. Generally, very little public information exists about these companies, and we are required to rely on the ability of our management team to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential returns from investing in these companies. If we are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, then we may not make a fully informed investment decision, and we may lose money on our investments. If we do not conduct an adequate due diligence investigation of a target business with which we combine, we may be required to subsequently take write-downs or write-offs, restructuring, and impairment or other charges that could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our stock price, which could cause you to lose some or all of your investment. In order to meet our disclosure and financial reporting obligations under the federal securities laws, and in order to develop and seek to execute strategic plans for how we can increase the revenues and/or profitability of a target business, realize operating synergies or capitalize on market opportunities, we must conduct a due diligence investigation of one or more target businesses. Intensive due diligence is time consuming and expensive due to the operations, accounting, finance and legal professionals who must be involved in the due diligence process. Even if we conduct extensive due diligence on a target business with which we combine, we cannot assure you that this diligence will surface all material issues that may be present inside a particular target business, or that factors outside of the target business and outside of our control will not later arise. If our diligence fails to identify issues specific to a target business, industry or the environment in which the target business operates, we may be forced to later write-down or write-off assets, restructure our operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in our reporting losses. Even though these charges may be non-cash items and not have an immediate impact on our liquidity, the fact that we report charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our common stock. In addition, charges of this nature may cause us to violate net worth or other covenants to which we may be subject as a result of assuming pre-existing debt held by a target business or by virtue of our obtaining post-combination debt financing. There is no limit on the total amount of out-of-pocket expenses that may be incurred by our officers and directors in connection with identifying and investigating possible target businesses and business combinations. We will reimburse our officers and directors for any reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them in connection with identifying and investigating possible target businesses and business combinations. There is no limit on the total amount of out-of-pocket expenses reimbursable by us; provided that members of our management team will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the amount held outside of the trust account and interest income of up to $1,750,000 on the trust account balance that may be released to us to fund our expenses relating to investigating and selecting a target business and other working capital requirements, unless a business combination is consummated. Additionally, there will be no review of the reasonableness of the expenses other than by our audit committee and, in some cases, by our board of directors, or if such reimbursement is challenged, by a court of competent jurisdiction. As out-of-pocket expenses incurred by our officers and directors will not be subject to any dollar limit or any review of the reasonableness of such expenses other than by our audit committee or our board of directors, the aggregate business expenses incurred by our officers and directors in connection with identifying and investigating possible target businesses may be greater than if such expenses were subject to a more extensive review, which would reduce the amount of working capital available to us for a business combination. Further, if such out-of-pocket expenses exceed the available funds held outside of the trust and the interest income of up to $1,750,000 earned on the funds held in the trust account, our members of management will not be reimbursed for such excess unless we consummate a business combination. As described in more detail below, this may create a conflict of interest for members of our management in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination and in the public stockholders' best interest. 19 Our officers and directors will allocate their time to other businesses thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. This conflict of interest could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. All of our executive officers are engaged in several other business endeavors and are not obligated to devote any specific number of hours to our affairs. If our officers' and directors' other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. Our officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Our officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with entities, including other blank check companies, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. Additionally, our officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as the other entities to which they owe fiduciary duties. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. As a result, a potential target business may be presented to another entity prior to its presentation to us and we may not be able to pursue a potential transaction. Certain of our officers and directors beneficially own shares of our common stock and our warrants. These shares and warrants will not participate in liquidation distributions and, therefore, our officers and directors may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination. Columbus Holdings and certain of our officers and directors own shares of our common stock that were issued prior to our initial public offering. In August 2006, Columbus Holdings purchased 3,125,000 shares of our common stock. Andrew Intrater, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, controls Columbus Holdings in his capacity as its sole managing member. Mr. Intrater, Jason Epstein, Paul F. Lipari and Michael Sloan, each of whom is a member of our management team, as well as Jay M. Haft and Marceau Schlumberger (who are each affiliated with Columbus Nova, a private investment firm for which Mr. Intrater serves as Chief Executive Officer), are each members of Columbus Holdings. Columbus Holdings subsequently transferred 30,000 of these shares to each of Barry J. Rourke, Eric Zachs, Rolf Zimmermann and Jason Lustig, each of whom is a member of our board of directors, and 312,500 of these shares to Michael W. Ernestus, who is also a member of our board of directors and serves as our President. Messrs. Intrater, Epstein, Lipari and Sloan, through their respective ownership of the Series A membership interests in Columbus Acquisition Holdings LLC, may be deemed to beneficially own 2,692,500, 437,500, 437,500, 281,250 and 376,111 shares of our common stock, respectively. Columbus Holdings also purchased all of the insider warrants on a private placement basis simultaneously with the consummation of our initial public offering. Columbus Holdings is not able to exercise its insider warrants if investors in our initial public offering are not able to exercise their warrants. The insider warrants are identical to warrants underlying the units sold in our initial public offering, except that if we call the warrants for redemption, the insider warrants are exercisable on a cashless basis so long as they are still held by Columbus Holdings. Messrs. Intrater, Epstein, Lipari, Haft and Sloan, through their respective ownership of the Series B membership interests in Columbus Acquisition Holdings LLC, may be deemed to beneficially own 1,456,350, 653,350, 653,350, 467,200 and 419,750 insider warrants, respectively, and the same number of additional shares of our common stock underlying these insider warrants. Columbus Holdings and our officers and directors have waived their right to receive distributions with respect to their initial shares upon our liquidation if we are unable to consummate a business combination. Accordingly, the common shares acquired prior to our initial public offering, as well as the insider warrants, and any warrants purchased by our officers or directors in the open market following our initial public offering, will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. The personal and financial interests of our directors and officers may influence their motivation in timely identifying and selecting a target business and completing a business combination. Consequently, our directors' and officers' discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in the best interests of all of our stockholders. 20 Unless we complete a business combination, members of our management team will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses they incur if such expenses exceed the $50,000 that is not being deposited in the trust account and interest income of up to $1,750,000 on the trust account balance that may be released to us to fund our expenses relating to investigating and selecting a target business and other working capital requirements. Therefore, they may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination and in the public stockholders' best interest. Members of our management team will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the $50,000 held outside of the trust account and interest income of up to $1,750,000 on the trust account balance that may be released to us to fund our expenses relating to investigating and selecting a target business and other working capital requirements, unless a business combination is consummated. Members of our management team may, as part of any such combination, negotiate the repayment of some or all of any such expenses. If the target business' owners do not agree to such repayment, this could cause our management team to view such potential business combination unfavorably, thereby resulting in a conflict of interest. The financial interests of members of our management team could influence their motivation in selecting a target business and thus, there may be a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular business combination is in the best interests of all of our stockholders. The American Stock Exchange may delist our securities from quotation on its exchange which could limit investors' ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our securities are listed on the American Stock Exchange, a national securities exchange. We cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the American Stock Exchange in the future prior to a business combination. Additionally, in connection with our business combination, it is likely that the American Stock Exchange will require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. If the American Stock Exchange delists our securities from trading on its exchange, and we are unable to list our securities on another national securities exchange or Nasdaq, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: · a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; · a reduced liquidity with respect to our securities; · a determination that our common stock is a "penny stock" which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules, possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; · a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and · a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. 21 We may only be able to complete one business combination, which will cause us to be solely dependent on a single business which may have a limited number of products or services. Our initial business combination must be with a business with a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets at the time of such acquisition, although this may entail the simultaneous acquisitions of several operating businesses at the same time. By consummating a business combination with only a single entity, we would not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may be: · solely dependent upon the performance of a single business, or · dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services. This lack of diversification may subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments, any or all of which may have a substantial adverse impact upon the particular industry in which we may operate subsequent to a business combination. Alternatively, if our business combination entails the simultaneous acquisitions of several operating businesses at the same time from different sellers, we would face additional risks, including difficulties and expenses incurred in connection with the subsequent integration of the operations and services or products of the acquired companies into a single operating business. If we are unable to adequately address these risks, it could negatively impact our profitability and results of operations. We may effect a business combination with a financially unstable company or an entity in the early stage of development or growth, which may subject us to greater risks than if we were to effect a business combination with a more established company with a proven record of earnings and growth. After conducting due diligence investigations to evaluate risks in potential target businesses, we may still decide to effect a business combination with a company that is financially unstable or is in the early stage of development or growth, including an entity without established records of sales or earnings. To the extent we effect a business combination with financially unstable or early stage or emerging growth companies, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business and operations of such companies that we would not be subject to if we were to effect a business combination with a more established company with a proven record of earnings and growth. The ability of our public stockholders to exercise their conversion rights may not allow us to effectuate the most desirable business combination or optimize our capital structure. When we seek stockholder approval of any business combination, we will offer each public stockholder (but not our initial stockholders) the right to have his, her or its common shares converted to cash if the stockholder votes against the business combination and the business combination is approved and completed. Such holder must both vote against such business combination and then exercise his, her or its conversion rights to receive a pro rata portion of the trust account. Accordingly, if our business combination requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise such conversion rights, we may either need to reserve part of the trust account for possible payment upon such conversion, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our business combination in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their conversion rights than we expect. The conversion rights afforded to our public stockholders may result in the conversion into cash of up to approximately 29.99% of the aggregate number of the shares sold in our initial public offering. Therefore, as much as approximately $34,014,287 (plus the converting stockholders’ share of all accrued interest after distribution of interest income on the trust account balance to us as described above) may be required to fund the exercise of conversion rights. Since we have no specific business combination under consideration, we have not taken any steps to secure third party financing. Therefore, we may not be able to consummate a business combination that requires us to use all of the funds held in the trust account as part of the purchase price, or we may end up having a leverage ratio that is not optimal for our business combination. This may limit our ability to effectuate the most attractive business combination available to us. 22 We will proceed with a business combination only if public stockholders owning less than 30% of the shares sold in our initial public offering exercise their conversion rights. We will proceed with a business combination only if public stockholders owning less than 30% of the shares sold in our initial public offering exercise their conversion rights. Accordingly, approximately 29.99% of the public stockholders may exercise their conversion rights and we could still consummate a proposed business combination. We have established the conversion percentage at 30%, rather than the 20% threshold that is customary and standard for companies similar to ours, in order to reduce the likelihood that a small group of investors holding a large block of our stock will be able to stop us from completing a business combination that is otherwise approved by a large majority of our public stockholders. Our business combination may require us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price. In such a case, because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise such conversion rights, we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our business combination in case a large percentage of stockholders exercise their conversion rights. Additionally, even if our business combination does not require us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, we will have less cash available to use in furthering our business plans following a business combination to the extent that our stockholders exercise their conversion rights, and may need to arrange third party financing. We have not taken any steps to secure third party financing for either situation. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such third party financing on terms favorable to us or at all. Because of our limited resources and structure, we may not be able to consummate an attractive business combination. We encounter intense competition from many sources, including other blank check companies having a business objective similar to ours, venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds and operating businesses competing for acquisitions. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do, and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe that there are numerous potential target businesses that we could acquire with the net proceeds that we received from our initial public offering, and that we offer other competitive advantages, our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses will be limited by the availability of sufficient financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. Furthermore, the obligation we have to seek stockholder approval of a business combination may delay the consummation of a transaction. Additionally, our outstanding warrants, and the future dilution they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. Any of these factors may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. The fact that only 47 of the blank check companies that have gone public in the United States since August 2003 have consummated a business combination and only 25 companies have announced they have entered into a definitive agreement for a business combination may be an indication that there are fewer attractive target businesses available to such entities like our company or that many privately held target businesses are not inclined to enter into these types of transactions with publicly held blank check companies like ours. If we are unable to consummate a business combination with a target business within the prescribed time periods, we will be forced to liquidate. We may be unable to obtain any additional financing necessary to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure or abandon a particular business combination. We believe that the net proceeds from our initial public offering that are held in trust will be sufficient to allow us to consummate a business combination. However, because we have not yet identified any prospective target business, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If our available cash resources prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination, the depletion of the available net proceeds expended in search of a target business or the obligation to convert into cash a significant number of common shares from dissenting stockholders, we will be required to seek additional financing. As of the date of this annual report and for the many months preceding the date of this annual report, the financial markets generally, and the credit markets in particular, are and have been experiencing substantial turbulence and turmoil, and extreme volatility, both in the United States and in other markets worldwide. The current situation has resulted generally in substantial reductions in available loans to a broad spectrum of businesses, increased scrutiny by lenders of the credit-worthiness of borrowers, more restrictive covenants imposed by lenders upon borrowers under credit and similar agreements and, in some cases, increased interest rates under commercial and other loans, and decreased availability of equity capital. We cannot predict whether the current situation in the credit and equity markets will improve or whether it will deteriorate further. If we require or are relying upon additional financing to complete a business combination, we cannot assure you that such financing will be available upon commercially acceptable terms, or at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to either restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek to effect a business combination with an alternative target business. If we fail to complete a specific business combination after expending substantial management time and attention and incurring substantial costs for accountants, attorneys, and others, such costs likely would not be recoverable, which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and combine with another target business within the required time frame. In addition, even if we do not need additional financing to consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure such financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with, or following, a business combination. 23 Our initial stockholders, including our officers and directors, control a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. Our initial stockholders (including all of our officers and directors) collectively own 17.9% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock. Our board of directors is and will be divided into three classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of three years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. Although we expect that we will have an annual meeting of stockholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation of a business combination, if we do not do so all of the current directors will continue in office at least until the consummation of a business combination. Further, as a consequence of our staggered board of directors, if there is an annual meeting, only a minority of our board of directors will be considered for election and our initial stockholders, because of their ownership position, will have considerable influence regarding the outcome of matters submitted for stockholder approval. Accordingly, our initial stockholders will continue to exert a substantial degree of control at least until the consummation of a business combination. In addition, our initial stockholders and their affiliates are not prohibited from purchasing our common stock in the aftermarket. If they do so, our initial stockholders will have a greater influence on the vote taken in connection with a business combination. Our stockholders are not able to take any action by written, which may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing takeover attempts or other changes in the control of our company, our board or management, that are not supported by our board of directors, despite possible benefits to our stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that our stockholders are not able to take any action by written consent, but will only be able to take action at duly called annual or special meetings of stockholders. Our bylaws further provide that special meetings of our stockholders may only be called by our board of directors with a majority vote of our board of directors, by our Chairman of the Board or Chief Executive Officer. These provisions, by making it difficult for our stockholders to take action, may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing non-negotiated takeover attempts not approved by our board of directors that our stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions that might result in payment of a premium over the market price for the shares of common stock held by our stockholders. Moreover, these provisions may prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove members of our board of directors. Our outstanding warrants and option may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. We issued warrants to purchase 12,500,000 shares of common stock as part of the units offered in our initial public offering, plus an additional 1,875,000 warrants relating to the exercise in full of the underwriters’ over-allotment option, and also issued the insider warrants to purchase 3,650,000 shares of common stock. In addition, we granted an option to purchase 625,000 units to the representative of the underwriters which, if exercised, will result in the issuance of an additional 625,000 warrants. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of a substantial number of additional shares upon exercise of these warrants and this option could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business. This is because such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete the business combination. Accordingly, our warrants and option may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of acquiring the target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the warrants and option could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future financing. If and to the extent these warrants and option are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. 24 If our initial stockholders or holders of the insider warrants exercise their registration rights with respect to their initial shares or insider warrants (or underlying securities), it may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effect a business combination. Our initial stockholders as well as the holders of the insider warrants (and underlying common shares), are entitled to registration rights with respect to their initial shares and insider warrants (and underlying common shares). The holders of the majority of these securities are entitled to make up to two demands that we register such securities under the Securities Act of 1933. As the initial shares will be released from escrow one year after the consummation of a business combination, our initial stockholders can make a demand for registration of the resale of their initial shares at any time commencing nine months after the consummation of a business combination. The holders of a majority of the insider warrants (or underlying securities) can elect to exercise these registration rights at any time after we consummate a business combination. In addition, the holders have certain ‘‘piggy-back’’ registration rights with respect to registration statements filed subsequent to our consummation of a business combination. We will bear the expenses incurred in connection with the filing of any such registration statements. If our initial stockholders or the holders of the insider warrants (or underlying securities) exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their initial shares or the insider warrants (or underlying securities), as the case may be, then there will be an additional 6,775,000 shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market. The presence of these additional shares of common stock trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of acquiring the target business, as the stockholders of the target business may be discouraged from entering into a business combination with us or will request a higher price for their securities because of the potential effect the exercise of such rights may have on the trading market for our common stock. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to satisfy burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it more difficult for us to complete a business combination. A company that, among other things, is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily, or proposes to engage primarily, in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, trading or holding certain types of securities would be deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Since we invest the proceeds held in the trust fund, it is possible that we will be deemed an investment company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we do not believe that our anticipated principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940. To this end, the proceeds held in trust will be invested by the trustee only in United States "government securities" within the meaning of Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 having a maturity of 180 days or less or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we intend to meet the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we are nevertheless deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, we may be subject to certain restrictions that may make it more difficult for us to complete a business combination, including: · restrictions on the nature of our investments; and · restrictions on the issuance of securities. 25 In addition, we may have imposed upon us certain burdensome compliance requirements, including: · registration as an investment company; · adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and · reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy, compliance policies and procedures and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. Compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense for which we have not allotted. If we acquire a target business with operations outside of the United States, economic, political, social and other factors of the country where the target business operates may adversely affect our ability to achieve our business objective. If we acquire a target business that operates in a foreign country, our ability to achieve our business objective may be adversely affected by economic, political, social and religious factors of the country where the target business operates. The economy of such country may differ favorably or unfavorably from the U.S. economy in such respects as the level of economic development, the amount of governmental involvement, the growth rate of its gross domestic product, the allocation of resources, the control of foreign exchange, the rate of inflation, capital reinvestment, resource self-sufficiency and balance of payments position. These differences may adversely affect our ability to acquire one or more businesses with operations outside the United States. Additionally, changes in the country's laws or regulations or political conditions may also impact our ability to acquire a foreign target business. One or more countries where the target business operates may have corporate disclosure, governance and regulatory requirements that are different from those in the United States, which may make it more difficult or complex to consummate a business combination. Companies in other countries are subject to accounting, auditing, regulatory and financial standards and requirements that differ, in some cases significantly, from those applicable to public companies in the United States, which may make it more difficult or complex to consummate a business combination. In particular, the assets and profits appearing on the financial statements of a company located outside the United States may not reflect its financial position or results of operations in the way they would be reflected had such financial statements been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. There may be substantially less publicly available information about companies located outside the United States than there is about United States companies. Moreover, companies in other countries may not be subject to the same degree of regulation as are United States companies with respect to such matters as insider trading rules, tender offer regulation, stockholder proxy requirements and the timely disclosure of information. Legal principles relating to corporate affairs and the validity of corporate procedures, directors’ fiduciary duties and liabilities and stockholders’ rights for companies located outside the United States may differ from those that may apply in the United States, which may make the consummation of a business combination with such companies located outside of the United States more difficult. We therefore may have more difficulty in achieving our business objective. Foreign currency fluctuations could adversely affect our business and financial results. If we acquire a target business which does business and generates sales in one or more countries outside the United States, foreign currency fluctuations may affect the costs that we incur in such international operations. It is also possible that some or all of our operating expenses may be incurred in non-U.S. dollar currencies. The appreciation of non-U.S. dollar currencies in those countries where we have operations against the U.S. dollar would increase our costs and could harm our results of operations and financial condition. Exchange controls that exist in certain countries may limit our ability to utilize our cash flow effectively following a business combination. If we effect a business combination with a target business that operates in one or more countries outside of the United States, we may become subject to rules and regulations on currency conversion that are in effect in certain countries. Such rules and regulations impose restrictions on conversion of local currency into foreign currencies with respect to entities with foreign equity holdings in excess of a certain level. Such restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use our cash flow for the distribution of dividends to our stockholders or to fund operations we may have outside of the country where the target business is located. 26 Because any target business with which we attempt to complete a business combination may be required to provide our stockholders with financial statements prepared in accordance with, or which can be reconciled to, United States generally accepted accounting principles, prospective target businesses may be limited. In accordance with requirements of United States Federal Securities Laws, in order to seek stockholder approval of a business combination, a proposed target business may be required to have certain financial statements which are prepared in accordance with, or which can be reconciled to, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and audited in accordance with U.S. generally accepted auditing standards. To the extent that a proposed target business does not have financial statements which have been prepared in accordance with, or which can be reconciled to, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and audited in accordance with U.S. generally accepted auditing standards, we may not be able to complete a business combination with that proposed target business. These financial statement requirements may limit the pool of potential target businesses with which we may complete a business combination. Returns on investment in companies with operations outside the United States may be decreased by withholding and other taxes. If we effect a business combination with a target business that operates in one or more countries outside of the United States, our investments in certain countries may incur tax risk, and income that might otherwise not be subject to withholding of local income tax under normal international conventions may be subject to withholding in such countries. Any withholding taxes paid by us on income from our investments in other countries may or may not be creditable on our income tax returns. We intend to avail ourselves of income tax treaties that are in place to seek to minimize any withholding tax or local tax otherwise imposed in other countries. However, there is no assurance that the local tax authorities will recognize application of such treaties to achieve a minimization of local tax. We may also elect to create foreign subsidiaries to effect the business combinations to attempt to limit the potential tax consequences of a business combination. Certain sectors of the economy in one or more countries where a target business operates may be subject to government regulations that limit foreign ownership, which may adversely affect our ability to achieve our business objective. Some countries have in place government regulations that aim to limit foreign ownership in certain sectors of their economy. As we intend to avoid sectors in which foreign investment is disallowed, the possible number of acquisitions outside of the United States that are available for investment may be limited. Our management team will evaluate the risk associated with investments in sectors in which foreign investment is restricted. However, there can be no guarantee that our management team will be correct in its assessment of political and policy risk associated with investments in general and in particular in sectors that are regulated by the applicable government. Any changes in policy could have an adverse impact on our ability to achieve our business objective. If any relevant government authorities find us or the target business with which we ultimately complete a business combination to be in violation of any existing or future laws or regulations in place, they would have broad discretion in dealing with such a violation, including, without limitation: · Levying fines; · Revoking our business and other licenses; and · Requiring that we restructure our ownership or operations. 27 If we effect a business combination with a target business located outside of the United States, the target business's operations may become less attractive if political and diplomatic relations between the United States and the country where the target business is located deteriorate. The relationship between the United States and the country where a target business is located may weaken over time. Changes in the state of the relations between such country and the United States are difficult to predict and could adversely affect our future operations or cause potential target businesses to become less attractive. This could lead to a decline in our profitability. Any meaningful deterioration of the political and diplomatic relations between the United States and the relevant country could have a material adverse effect on our operations after a successful completion of a business combination. If we effect a business combination with a target business located outside of the United States, we may be unable to enforce our rights because the local judiciary, which may be relatively inexperienced in enforcing corporate and commercial law, will determine the scope and enforcement of almost all of our target business's material agreements under local law. If we effect a business combination with a company located outside of the United States, the laws of the country in which such company operates will govern almost all of the material agreements relating to its operations. We cannot assure you that the target business will be able to enforce any of its material agreements or that remedies will be available in this new jurisdiction. The local judiciary may be relatively inexperienced in enforcing corporate and commercial law, and the system of laws and the enforcement of existing laws in such jurisdiction may not be as certain in implementation and interpretation as in the United States. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. Because certain of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States, it may be difficult for you to enforce your rights against them or enforce U.S. court judgments against them. Two of our directors, one of whom also serves as an officer, reside outside of the United States. Additionally, if we effect a business combination with a company located overseas, substantially all of our assets will be located outside of the United States after the consummation of the business combination. It may therefore be difficult for investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties of our directors and officers under United States Federal securities laws. Further, it is unclear whether extradition treaties that may be in effect would permit effective enforcement of criminal penalties of the United States Federal securities laws. If we effect a business combination with a company located outside of the United States, we would be subject to a variety of additional risks that may negatively impact our operations. If we effect a business combination with a company located outside of the United States, we would be subject to risks associated with companies operating in the target business’s home jurisdiction. The additional risks we may be exposed to include but are not limited to the following: · tariffs and trade barriers; · regulations related to customs and import/export matters; · longer payment cycles; · tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws as compared to the United States; · challenges in collecting accounts receivable; · cultural and language differences; · employment regulations; and · crimes, strikes, riots, civil disturbances, terrorist attacks and wars. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 28 Item 