D. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition and results of operations can be affected materially and adversely by any of the following risk factors. Risks Relating to Our Early Stage of Development We are in an early stage of development of our business and properties, and so we are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Our limited operating history may not serve as an adequate basis to judge our future operating results and prospects. In significant respects we remain in a developmental phase of our business and there is limited historical information available about our company upon which you can base your evaluation of our business and prospects. In particular, we opened Crown Macau less than two years ago and are still in the process of constructing City of Dreams. The Macau peninsula project is at an even more preliminary stage of development, and we have not completed the acquisition of the site. The Mocha Club business, which we acquired in 2005, did not commence operations until 2003. Melco Crown Gaming acquired its subconcession and previously did not have any direct experience operating casinos in Macau. As a result, you should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks, expenses and challenges that we will face as an early-stage company seeking to develop and operate major new development projects and gaming businesses in an intensely competitive market. Among other things, we are still in the process of: • satisfying and complying with conditions and covenants under the $1.75 billion City of Dreams Project Facility to rollover existing revolving loans drawn down under the facility and to maintain the facility; and • acquiring an ownership interest in the company that owns the Macau peninsula site, which is subject to significant conditions in the control of third parties unrelated to us and the seller, and to obtaining Macau governmental approvals, and obtaining financing commitments for the acquisition and development of the Macau peninsula project. 8 Table of Contents We have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by early- stage companies, and those risks and difficulties may be heightened in a rapidly developing market such as the gaming market in Macau. Some of the risks relate to our ability to: • complete our construction projects within their anticipated time schedules and budgets; • identify suitable locations and enter into new leases or right to use agreements (which are similar to license agreements) for new Mocha Clubs; • renew lease agreements for existing Mocha Clubs; • attract and retain customers and qualified employees; • operate, support, expand and develop our operations and our facilities; • maintain effective control of our operating costs and expenses; • raise additional capital, as required; • fulfill conditions precedent to draw down funds from current and future credit facilities; • develop and maintain internal personnel, systems, controls and procedures to assure compliance with the extensive regulatory requirements applicable to the gaming business as well as regulatory compliance as a public company; • respond to changes in our regulatory environment; • respond to competitive market conditions; and • respond to changing financing requirements. If we are unable to complete any of these tasks, we may be unable to complete those of our projects that are currently under development and operate our businesses in the manner we contemplate and generate revenues from such projects in the amounts and by the times we anticipate. We may also be unable to meet the conditions to draw on our existing or future financing facilities in order to fund our development, construction and acquisition activities or may suffer a default under our existing or future financing facilities. If any of these events were to occur, it would cause a material adverse effect on our business and prospects, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. We could encounter problems that substantially increase the costs to develop our projects. The budget estimated for the Macau peninsula project is based on preliminary projections, conceptual design documents and schedule estimates that are prepared with the assistance of our architects and contractors and are subject to change as the plans and design documents are developed and as contract packages are let into the marketplace. We expect revisions to our estimated project costs as we firm up our design plans and hire architects, contractors and sub-contractors for these projects. 9 Table of Contents All our projects are subject to significant development and construction risks, which could have a material adverse impact on our project timetables and costs and our ability to complete the projects. These risks include the following: • changes to plans and specifications; • engineering problems, including defective plans and specifications; • shortages of, and price increases in, energy, materials and skilled and unskilled labor, and inflation in key supply markets; • delays in obtaining or inability to obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals; • changes in laws and regulations, or in the interpretation and enforcement of laws and regulations, applicable to gaming, leisure, residential, real estate development or construction projects; • labor disputes or work stoppages; • disputes with and defaults by contractors and subcontractors; • environmental, health and safety issues, including site accidents; • weather interferences or delays; • fires, typhoons and other natural disasters; • geological, construction, excavation, regulatory and equipment problems; and • other unanticipated circumstances or cost increases. The occurrence of any of these development and construction risks could increase the total costs, delay or prevent the construction or opening or otherwise affect the design and features of our projects that are under development, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We cannot guarantee that our construction costs or total project costs for our projects will not increase. Our contractors and sub-contractors may not be able to secure lower cost labor and other inputs from mainland China on a timely basis and in an adequate amount, as they need to obtain required licenses from the Macau government to do so. The application for such licenses, if granted at all, may take several weeks or months. Increases in input costs of construction in Macau will increase the risk that contractors will fail to perform under their contracts on time, within budget, or at all, and could increase the costs of any contracts that we may enter into for our projects. 10 Table of Contents We could encounter problems in the pre-opening phase of the City of Dreams which could delay its opening and operation. We are in the process of completing the construction and pre-opening planning for the City of Dreams, and we are recruiting 7,000 new employees required to be able to open and operate the City of Dreams. Any factors that adversely affect any part of these processes may cause a delay in the opening of the City of Dreams. In addition, an occupancy permit is required to be issued by the Macau government prior to the opening and operation of the City of Dreams. The issuance of an occupancy permit for the City of Dreams and our other projects is subject to administrative procedures which are in certain aspects beyond our control. Upon completion of construction, in order to obtain the formal occupancy permit, we are subject to an inspection led by the Macau Public Works and Transport Department which also includes the participation of representatives from the Institute for Civil and Municipal Affairs, the Health Department and the Fire Department. Any unfavorable report from any of these departments may result in a delay in the issue of a formal occupancy permit or rejection of its issuance. Amongst other details, the inspection is aimed at verifying that construction has been completed in accordance with the approved construction project, the technical details of construction and the certification by the local electricity company that the project was completed in line with local guidelines and may be connected with the electricity distribution network. The inspection report is thereafter subject to certification by the Head of the Macau Public Works and Transport Department who is responsible for the issuance of the occupancy permit. Until such permit is issued we are not able to open or operate the City of Dreams or our other projects as planned. This permit is separate and independent from the operating licenses we are required to obtain in order to operate our hotels and food and beverage outlets. Such operating licenses require further inspections led by the Macau Government Tourism Office, which include the participation of representatives from the Labour Department, the Public Works and Transport Department, the Institute for Civil and Municipal Affairs, the Health Department, the Sports Department, the Police Department and the Fire Department. Any unfavorable report from any of these departments may result in a delay in the issue of the operating licenses or rejection of their issuance which could delay the opening and operation of the City of Dreams and our other projects. We may require debt and equity funding to complete our pipeline of future projects and we may be required to incur significant additional indebtedness or sell convertible bonds, ADSs or other equity or equity-linked securities. Our ability to obtain additional financing may be limited, which could delay or prevent the opening of one or more of our projects. We may require more debt and equity funding to complete our pipeline of future projects, fund initial operating activities and service debt payments, depending on whether our projects are completed within budget, the timing of completion and commencement of revenue generating operations, any further investments and/or acquisitions we may make, and the amount of cash flow from our operations. If delays and cost overruns are significant, the additional funding we would require could be substantial. The raising of additional debt funding by us, if required, would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in additional operating and financing covenants, or liens on our assets, that would restrict our operations. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. 11 Table of Contents Our ability to obtain required additional capital on acceptable terms is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: • limitations on our ability to incur additional debt, including as a result of prospective lenders’ evaluations of our creditworthiness and pursuant to restrictions on incurrence of debt in our existing and anticipated credit facilities, which currently prohibits Melco Crown Gaming and our other subsidiaries from incurring additional indebtedness with only limited exceptions, and the fact that our senior creditors have pledges over our operating assets, including Crown Macau and Mocha Clubs; • limitations on our ability to raise capital from the credit markets, especially if the current turmoil in the credit markets continues; • investors’ and lenders’ perception of, and demand for, debt and equity securities of gaming, leisure and hospitality companies, as well as the offerings of competing financing and investment opportunities in Macau by our competitors; • whether it is necessary to obtain further credit support or other assurances from Melco and Crown on terms and conditions and in amounts that are commercially acceptable to them; • Melco Crown Gaming’s ability to obtain consent from the Macau government as required under our subconcession contract; • conditions of the U.S., Macau, Hong Kong, and other capital markets in which we may seek to raise funds; • our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows; • requirements for approval for certain transactions from Macau, Hong Kong or Australian authorities, the Nasdaq, our principal lenders and/or shareholders of Melco and/or Crown, among others; • Macau governmental regulation of gaming in Macau; and • economic, political and other conditions in Macau, China and the Asian region. Without the necessary capital, we may not be able to: • service the existing indebtedness obligations of our subsidiaries; • complete the development of our existing projects or acquire and develop new projects; • pay the outstanding land premium for our sites; • acquire necessary rights, assets or businesses; 12 Table of Contents • expand our operations in Macau; • hire, train and retain employees; • market our programs, services and products; or • respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated funding requirements. We cannot assure you that the necessary financing will be available in the future in the amounts or on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we fail to raise additional funds in such amounts and at such times as we may need, we may be forced to reduce our expenditures and growth to a level that can be supported by our cash flow and delay the development of our projects, which may result in default and exercise of remedies by the lenders under our loan facilities, whose loans we expect to be secured by liens on substantially all the shares and assets of our subsidiaries. In that event, we would be unable to complete our projects under construction and could suffer a partial or complete loss of investment in our projects. Servicing the debt of our subsidiaries requires a significant amount of cash, and our subsidiaries may not generate a sufficient level of cash flow from their businesses to make scheduled payments on their debt. Our subsidiaries’ ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on or to refinance their indebtedness depends on our subsidiaries’ future performance, which is subject to certain economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our subsidiaries may not generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service their debt and make necessary capital expenditures. If they are unable to generate such cash flow, our subsidiaries may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt, incurring additional indebtedness or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our subsidiaries’ ability to refinance their indebtedness will depend on the financial markets and their financial condition at such time. Our subsidiaries may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our subsidiaries’ debt obligations and a material adverse effect on the value of our ADSs. Even if our development projects are completed as planned, they may not be financially successful, which would limit our cash flow and would adversely affect our operations and our ability to repay our debt. Even if our development projects are completed as planned, they still may not be financially successful ventures or generate the cash flows that we anticipate. We may not attract the level of patronage that we are seeking. If any of our projects does not attract sufficient business, this will limit our cash flow and would adversely affect our operations and our ability to service payments under our existing and any future loan facilities. 13 Table of Contents Risks Relating to the Completion and Operation of Our Projects For the City of Dreams project, we have directly negotiated and entered into contracts with our construction contractors and vendors, which may increase the risk of delay and cost overruns. We have directly negotiated and entered into contracts with our construction contractors and vendors for the City of Dreams project, with the support of our construction manager (with the exception of certain contracts that are related to common temporary site services which are entered into and managed by the construction manager). This approach increases the administrative burden of managing construction contracts, and the risk of construction delays and cost overruns. If we are ineffective in directly overseeing contractual relationships with and ensuring satisfactory performance of those contracts by our construction contractors and vendors, we may experience delays and increases in construction costs in connection with the City of Dreams project. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all losses that we may suffer from our projects. In addition, our insurance costs may increase and we may not be able to obtain the same insurance coverage in the future. If we incur loss or damage for which we are held liable for amounts exceeding the limits of our insurance coverage, or for claims outside the scope of our insurance coverage, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. For example, certain casualty events, such as labor strikes, nuclear events, acts of war, loss of income due to cancellation of conventions or room reservations arising from fear of terrorism, deterioration or corrosion, insect or animal damage and pollution may not be covered under our policies. As a result, certain acts and events could expose us to significant uninsured losses. In addition to the damages caused directly by a casualty loss such as fire, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, we may suffer a disruption of our business as a result of these events or be subject to claims by third parties who may be injured or harmed. While we intend to carry business interruption insurance and general liability insurance, such insurance may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and, in any event, may not be adequate to cover all losses that may result from such events. For the construction of City of Dreams, we have obtained insurance policies providing coverage for construction risks that we believe are typically insured in the construction of gaming and hospitality projects in Macau and Hong Kong. However, this insurance coverage excludes certain types of loss and damage, such as loss or damage from acts of terrorism or liability for death or illness caused by contagious or infectious diseases. If loss or damage of those types were to occur, we could suffer significant uninsured losses. The cost of coverage, however, may in the future become so high that we may be unable to obtain the insurance policies we deem necessary for the construction and operation of our projects on commercially practicable terms, or at all, or we may need to reduce our policy limits or agree to certain exclusions from our coverage. We cannot assure you that any such insurance policies we may obtain will be adequate to protect us from material losses. 14 Table of Contents Construction at our projects is subject to hazards that may cause personal injury or loss of life, thereby subjecting us to liabilities and possible losses, which may not be covered by insurance. The construction of large scale properties such as our development projects can be dangerous. Construction workers at our projects are subject to hazards that may cause personal injury or loss of life, thereby subjecting the contractor and us to liabilities, possible losses, delays in completion of the projects and negative publicity. We believe that we and our contractors take safety precautions that are consistent with industry practice, but these safety precautions may not be adequate to prevent serious personal injuries or loss of life, damage to property or delays. If future accidents occur during the construction of our projects, we may be subject to delays, including delays imposed by regulators, liabilities and possible losses, which may not be covered by insurance, and our business, prospects and reputation may be materially and adversely affected. We may continue to encounter all of the risks associated with the development and construction of our projects in the future. In connection with the development and ongoing construction of our projects, we encountered a number of risks, including risks related to construction delays, budget overruns, construction contract disputes, failure to obtain, or not obtaining in a timely manner, the necessary government concessions, licenses, permits and approvals, among others. We also experienced increased holding costs as a result of delays. We are and expect to continue to be exposed to similar risks in the development and construction of our ongoing and future projects. If we are unable to obtain approval for an increase in the developable gross floor area of the City of Dreams site and the consequent amendments to the terms of our recently obtained land concession, we could forfeit all or a substantial part of our investment in the site and we would not be able to complete and fully operate the facility as planned. Land concessions in Macau are issued by the Macau government and generally have a term of 25 years, which is renewable for further consecutive periods of up to ten years each until December 19, 2049 in accordance with Macau law. There are common formulas generally used to determine the cost of these land concessions. On January 31, 2008, we received from the Macau government the final terms of the land lease agreement to be entered into with the Macau SAR for the two adjacent land parcels consisting of approximately 113,325 square meters (1.2 million sq. ft.) of land in Cotai that comprise the City of Dreams site. Our subsidiaries Melco Crown (COD) Developments and Melco Crown Gaming accepted the final terms of the land lease agreement on February 11, 2008 and Melco Crown (COD) Developments made the first scheduled land premium payment on the same date. On August 13, 2008, the Macau government formally granted a land concession to Melco Crown (COD) Developments for a period of 25 years, renewable for further consecutive periods of up to ten years each. The premium is approximately MOP 842.1 million, of which MOP 300.0 million was paid in February 2008 and the remaining premium, accrued with 5% interest, will be paid in nine biannual installments. The land concession enables Melco Crown (COD) Developments to develop five star hotels, four star hotels, apartment hotels and a parking area with the total gross floor area of 515,156 square meters (approximately 5,545,093 sq. ft.). If we are unable to obtain approval to increase the developable gross floor area and the consequent amendments to the land concession on terms that are acceptable to us, we may not be able to complete and fully operate City of Dreams as planned and we could lose all or a substantial part of our investment in City of Dreams. As of December 31, 2008, we had paid approximately US$1.42 billion of the project costs, excluding the cost of land, for the City of Dreams project, primarily consisting of construction costs and design and consultation fees. The majority of the development and construction costs for hotel and casino projects are typically spent closer to the completion of such projects and we expect that a large portion of our remaining expenditures budgeted for the City of Dreams project, as well as potential additional amounts in excess of the budgeted amounts, will be spent in the months leading up to the expected opening date of City of Dreams. 15 Table of Contents We will need to recruit a substantial number of new employees before each of our projects can open and competition may limit our ability to attract qualified management and personnel. We required extensive operational management and staff to open and operate Crown Macau. Accordingly, we undertook a major recruiting program before the Crown Macau opening. A major recruitment program for City of Dreams was launched in early 2009 and we expect to undertake another major recruitment program before the Macau peninsula project opens. The pool of experienced gaming and other skilled and unskilled personnel in Macau is severely limited. Many of our new personnel will occupy sensitive positions requiring qualifications sufficient to meet gaming regulatory and other requirements or will be required to possess other skills for which substantial training and experience may be needed. Moreover, competition to recruit and retain qualified gaming and other personnel is expected to continue. In addition, we are not currently allowed under Macau government policy to hire non-Macau resident dealers, croupiers and supervisors. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified individuals to operate our projects or that costs to recruit and retain such personnel will not increase significantly. The loss of the services of any of our senior managers or the inability to attract and retain qualified employees and senior management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our contractors may face difficulties in finding sufficient labor at an acceptable cost, which could cause delays and increase construction costs of our projects. The contractors we retain to construct our projects may also face difficulties and competition in finding qualified construction laborers and managers. Immigration and labor regulations in Macau may cause our contractors to be unable to obtain sufficient laborers from China to make up any gaps in available labor in Macau and to help reduce costs of construction, which could cause delays and increase construction costs of our projects. Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our senior management, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services or their other responsibilities cause them to be unable to devote sufficient time and attention to our company. We place substantial reliance on the gaming, project development and hospitality industry experience and knowledge of the Macau market possessed by members of our senior management team, including our co-chairman and chief executive officer, Mr. Lawrence Ho. The loss of the services of one or more of these members of our senior management team could hinder our ability to effectively manage our business and implement our growth and development strategies. Finding suitable replacements for Mr. Lawrence Ho or other members of our senior management could be difficult, and competition for personnel of similar experience could be intense in Macau. We do not currently carry key person insurance on any members of our senior management team. 16 Table of Contents Because we are and will be dependent upon a limited number of properties for a substantial portion of our cash flow, we are and will be subject to greater risks than a gaming company with more operating properties. We are primarily dependent upon Mocha Clubs and Crown Macau, as well as City of Dreams (upon its opening) and possibly the Macau peninsula project (upon its completion) for our cash flow. Given that our operations are and will be conducted based on a small number of principal properties, we are and will be subject to greater risks than a gaming company with more operating properties due to the limited diversification of our businesses and sources of revenue. Risks Relating to Our Operations in the Gaming Industry in Macau Because our operations will face intense competition in Macau and elsewhere in Asia, we may not be able to compete successfully and we may lose or be unable to gain market share. The hotel, resort and casino businesses are highly competitive. Our competitors in Macau and elsewhere in Asia include many of the largest gaming, hospitality, leisure and resort companies in the world. Some of these current and future competitors are larger than us and may have more diversified resources and greater access to capital to support their developments and operations in Macau and elsewhere. We also compete to some extent with casinos located in other countries, such as Malaysia, North Korea, South Korea, the Philippines and Cambodia, as well as in Australia, New Zealand and elsewhere in the world, including Las Vegas and Atlantic City. In addition, certain countries, such as Singapore have legalized casino gaming and others may in the future legalize casino gaming, including Japan, Taiwan and Thailand. Singapore awarded one casino license to Las Vegas Sands and a second casino license to Genting International Bhd. in 2006. We also compete with cruise ships operating out of Hong Kong and other areas of Asia that offer gaming. The proliferation of gaming venues in Southeast Asia could significantly and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our regional competitors also include Crown’s Crown Casino Melbourne and Burswood Casino in Australia and other casino resorts that Melco and Crown may develop elsewhere in Asia outside Macau. Melco and Crown may develop different interests and strategies for projects in Asia under their joint venture which conflict with the interests of our business in Macau or otherwise compete with us for Asian gaming and leisure customers. 17 Table of Contents Gaming is a highly regulated industry in Macau and adverse changes or developments in gaming laws or regulations could be difficult to comply with or significantly increase our costs, which could cause our projects to be unsuccessful. Gaming is a highly regulated industry in Macau. Current laws, such as licensing requirements, tax rates and other regulatory obligations, including those for anti-money laundering, could change or become more stringent resulting in additional regulations being imposed upon the gaming operations in the Crown Macau and the City of Dreams casinos, the Macau peninsula site, Macau Studio City site and the Mocha Clubs. Any such adverse developments in the regulation of the gaming industry could be difficult to comply with and significantly increase our costs, which could cause our projects to be unsuccessful. For example, the Macau government has announced its intention to set a cap in relation to the payment of commission to gaming promoters. Also the government has announced its intention to raise the minimum age required for the entrance in casinos in Macau from 18 years of age to 21 years of age. As far as employment is concerned, it was further announced that this measure, when adopted, would be implemented during a three year period in order to allow casino employees to maintain their positions while in the process of reaching the minimum required age. If implemented, this could adversely affect our ability to engage sufficient staff for the operation of our projects. Moreover, the Macau government also announced that it intends to restrict the ability of operators to open slot lounges, such as our Mocha Clubs, in residential areas. This policy may limit our ability to find new sites for the operation of new Mocha Clubs on terms acceptable to us. Current Macau laws and regulations concerning gaming and gaming concessions and matters such as prevention of money laundering are, for the most part, fairly recent and there is little precedent on the interpretation of these laws and regulations. We believe that our organizational structure and operations are currently in compliance in all material respects with all applicable laws and regulations of Macau, but we are still in the process of building our internal staff, systems and procedures for the future operation of our City of Dreams and Macau peninsula projects in compliance with gaming regulatory requirements and standards in Macau. These laws and regulations are complex and a court or an administrative or regulatory body may in the future render an interpretation of these laws and regulations, or issue new or modified regulations, that differ from our interpretation, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our activities in Macau are subject to administrative review and approval by various agencies of the Macau government. For example, our activities are subject to the administrative review and approval by the DICJ, the Health Department, Labour Bureau, Public Works Bureau, Fire Department, Finance Department and Macau Government Tourism Office. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain all necessary approvals, which may materially affect our business and operations. Macau law permits redress to the courts with respect to administrative actions. However, such redress is largely untested in relation to gaming regulatory issues. 18 Table of Contents Under Melco Crown Gaming’s subconcession, the Macau government may terminate the subconcession under certain circumstances without compensation to Melco Crown Gaming, which would prevent it from operating casino gaming facilities in Macau and could result in defaults under our indebtedness and a partial or complete loss of our investments in our projects. Under Melco Crown Gaming’s gaming subconcession, the Macau government has the right, after notifying Wynn Macau, to unilaterally terminate the subconcession in the event of non-compliance by Melco Crown Gaming with its basic obligations under the subconcession and applicable Macau laws. If such a termination were to occur, Melco Crown Gaming would be unable to operate casino gaming in Macau. We would also be unable to recover the US$900.0 million consideration paid to Wynn Macau for the issue of the subconcession. For a list of termination events, please see “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Gaming Regulations—Subconcession Contract”. These events could lead to the termination of Melco Crown Gaming’s subconcession without compensation to Melco Crown Gaming. In many of these instances, the subconcession contract does not provide a specific cure period within which any such events may be cured and, instead, we would rely on consultations and negotiations with the Macau government to remedy any such violation. Melco Crown Gaming has entered into a service agreement with New Cotai Entertainment (Macau) Limited, or New Cotai Entertainment, and New Cotai Entertainment, LLC pursuant to which Melco Crown Gaming will operate the casino premises in its hotel casino resorts. If New Cotai Entertainment, or other parties with whom we may, in the future, enter into similar agreements were to be found unsuitable or were to undertake actions that are inconsistent with Melco Crown Gaming’s subconcession terms and requirements, we could suffer penalties, including the termination of the subconcession. Based on information from the Macau government, proposed amendments to the legislation with regard to reversion of casino premises are being considered. We expect that if such amendments take effect, on the expiry or any termination of Melco Crown Gaming’s subconcession, unless Melco Crown Gaming’s subconcession were extended, only that portion of casino premises within our developments as then designated with the approval of the Macau government, including all gaming equipment, would revert to the Macau government automatically without compensation to us. Until such amendments come into effect, all of our casino premises and gaming equipment would revert automatically without compensation to us. The subconcession contract contains various general covenants, obligations and other provisions as to which the determination of compliance is subjective. For example, compliance with general and special duties of cooperation, special duties of information, and with obligations foreseen for the execution of our investment plan may be subjective. We cannot assure you that we will perform such covenants in a way that satisfies the requirements of the Macau government and, accordingly, we will be dependent on our continuing communications and good faith negotiations with the Macau government to ensure that we are performing our obligations under the subconcession in a manner that would avoid any violations. 19 Table of Contents Under the subconcession contract, we are required to make a minimum investment in Macau of MOP 4.0 billion (US$499.2 million), including investment in fully developing Crown Macau and the City of Dreams project, by December 2010. According to our financial statements, we believe that the amount we have invested in developing Crown Macau and the City of Dreams project as at December 31, 2008 is in excess of the minimum investment amount criteria as set out under the subconcession contract. We expect to obtain the necessary Macau government confirmation of our compliance with such minimum investment amount criteria. If we do not receive confirmation of compliance of this minimum investment amount criteria or if we do not meet the required deadline for completing other conditions in the subconcession contract, for example, due to delays in construction, we may lose the right to continue operating our properties developed under the subconcession or suffer the termination of the subconcession by the Macau government. Under Melco Crown Gaming’s subconcession, the Macau government is allowed to request various changes in the plans and specifications of our Macau properties and to make various other decisions and determinations that may be binding on us. For example, the Chief Executive of the Macau SAR has the right to require that we increase Melco Crown Gaming’s share capital or that we provide certain deposits or other guarantees of performance with respect to the obligations of our Macau subsidiaries in any amount determined by the Macau government to be necessary. Melco Crown Gaming is limited in its ability to raise additional capital by the need to first obtain the approval of the Macau gaming and governmental authorities before raising certain debt or equity. Melco Crown Gaming’s ability to incur debt or raise equity may also be restricted by our existing and any future loan facilities. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with these requirements or any other requirements of the Macau government or with the other requirements and obligations imposed by the subconcession. Furthermore, pursuant to the subconcession contract, we are obligated to comply not only with the terms of that agreement, but also with laws, regulations, rulings and orders that the Macau government might promulgate in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with any such laws, regulations, rulings or orders or that any such laws, regulations, rulings or orders would not adversely affect our ability to construct or operate our Macau properties. If any disagreement arises between us and the Macau government regarding the interpretation of, or our compliance with, a provision of the subconcession contract, we will be relying on the consultation and negotiation process with the applicable Macau governmental agency described above. During any such consultation, however, we will be obligated to comply with the terms of the subconcession contract as interpreted by the Macau government. Melco Crown Gaming’s failure to comply with the terms of its subconcession in a manner satisfactory to the Macau government could result in the termination of its subconcession. We cannot assure you that Melco Crown Gaming would always be able to operate gaming activities in a manner satisfactory to the Macau government. The loss of its subconcession would prohibit Melco Crown Gaming from conducting gaming operations in Macau which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and could result in defaults under our indebtedness and a partial or complete loss of our investments in our projects. Currently, there is no precedent on how the Macau government will treat the termination of a concession or subconcession upon the occurrence of any of the circumstances mentioned above. Some of the laws and regulations summarized above have not yet been applied by the Macau government. Therefore, the scope and enforcement of the provisions of Macau’s gaming regulatory system cannot be fully assessed at this time. 20 Table of Contents The Macau government could grant additional rights to conduct gaming in the future, which could significantly increase the already intense competition in Macau and cause us to lose or be unable to gain market share. Melco Crown Gaming is one of six companies authorized by the Macau government to operate gaming activities in Macau. The Macau government has agreed under the existing concession agreements that it will not grant any additional concessions before April 2009 and has publicly stated that only one subconcession may be issued under each concession. The Macau Government also announced that until further assessment of the economic situation in Macau there will not be any increase in the number of concessions or subconcessions. However, the policies and laws of the Macau government could change and the Macau government could grant additional concessions or subconcessions, and we could face additional competition which could significantly increase the competition in Macau and cause us to lose or be unable to maintain or gain market share. Melco Crown Gaming’s subconcession contract expires in 2022 and if we were unable to secure an extension of its subconcession in 2022 or if the Macau government were to exercise its redemption right in 2017, we would be unable to operate casino gaming in Macau. Melco Crown Gaming’s subconcession contract expires in 2022. Based on information from the Macau government, proposed amendments to the legislation with regard to reversion of casino premises are being considered. We expect that if such amendments take effect, on the expiry or any termination of Melco Crown Gaming’s subconcession, unless Melco Crown Gaming’s subconcession were extended, only that portion of casino premises within our developments as then designated with the approval of the Macau government, including all gaming equipment, would automatically revert to the Macau government without compensation to us. Until such amendments come into effect, all our casino premises and gaming equipment would revert automatically without compensation to us. Under the subconcession contract, beginning in 2017, the Macau government has the right to redeem the subconcession contract by providing us with at least one year’s prior notice. In the event the Macau government exercises this redemption right, we would be entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. The standards for the calculation of the amount of such compensation or indemnity would be determined based on the gross revenue generated by City of Dreams during the tax year immediately prior to the redemption, multiplied by the remaining term of the subconcession. We would not receive any further compensation (including for consideration paid to Wynn Macau for the subconcession). We cannot assure you that Melco Crown Gaming would be able to renew or extend its subconcession contract on terms favorable to us, or at all. We also cannot assure you that if Melco Crown Gaming’s subconcession were redeemed, the compensation paid would be adequate to compensate us for the loss of future revenues. While Melco Crown Gaming will not initially be required to pay corporate income taxes on income from gaming operations under the subconcession, this tax exemption will expire in 2011, and it may not be extended. The Macau government has granted to Melco Crown Gaming the benefit of a corporate tax holiday on gaming income in Macau for five years from 2007 to 2011. When this tax exemption expires, we cannot assure you that it will be extended beyond the expiration date. 21 Table of Contents Furthermore, the Macau Government has granted to our subsidiary Melco Crown (CM) Hotel the declaration of utility purposes benefit, pursuant to which, for a period of 12 years, it is entitled to a vehicle and property tax holiday on any vehicles and immovable property that it owns or has been granted. Additionally, under the tax holiday, this entity will also be allowed to double the maximum rates applicable regarding depreciation and reintegration for purposes of assessment of corporate income tax for the same period of time. We intend to apply for the same tax holiday for Melco Crown (COD) Hotels for our City of Dreams project, but we cannot assure you that it will be granted by the Macau Government on as favorable terms, or at all. We extend credit to a portion of our customers, and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables from our credit customers. We conduct our table gaming activities at our casinos to a limited degree on a credit basis, and expect to continue this practice in the future. This credit is often unsecured, as is customary in our industry. High-end patrons typically are extended more credit than patrons who tend to wager lower amounts. We may not be able to collect all of our gaming receivables from our credit customers. We expect that we will be able to enforce our gaming receivables only in a limited number of jurisdictions, including Macau. As most of our gaming customers are visitors from other jurisdictions, we may not have access to a forum in which we will be able to collect all of our gaming receivables because, among other reasons, courts of many jurisdictions do not enforce gaming debts. We may encounter forums that will refuse to enforce such debts, or we may be unable to locate assets in other jurisdictions against which to seek recovery of gaming debts. The collectability of receivables from international customers could be negatively affected by future business or economic trends or by significant events in the countries in which these customers reside. We may also in given cases have to determine whether aggressive enforcement actions against a customer will unduly alienate the customer and cause the customer to cease playing at our casinos. If we accrue large receivables from the credit extended to our customers, we could suffer a material adverse impact on our operating results if those receivables are deemed uncollectible. In addition, in the event a patron has been extended credit and has lost back to us the amount borrowed and the receivable from that patron is deemed uncollectible, Macau gaming tax will still be payable on the resulting gaming revenue notwithstanding our uncollectible receivable. The current credit environment may limit availability of credit to gaming patrons and may negatively impact our revenue. We conduct our table gaming activities at our casinos to a limited degree on a credit basis and our gaming promoters and gaming promoter aggregator also conduct their operations by extending credit to gaming patrons. The general economic downturn and turmoil in the financial markets have placed broad limitations on the availability of credit from credit sources as well as lengthening the recovery cycle of extended credit. Continued tightening of liquidity conditions in credit markets may constrain revenue generation and growth and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Our business may face a higher level of volatility due to our focus on the rolling chip segment of the gaming market. We are currently heavily dependent on the gaming revenues generated from Crown Macau. Crown Macau caters primarily to the rolling chip segment of the gaming market. The revenues generated from the rolling chip segment of the gaming market are acutely volatile primarily due to high bets, and the resulting high winnings and losses. As a result, our business may be more volatile from quarter to quarter than that of our competitors and may require higher levels of cage cash in reserve to manage our losses. We depend upon gaming promoters for a portion of our gaming revenue and if we are unable to establish, maintain and increase the number of successful relationships with gaming promoters, our ability to attract rolling chip patrons may be adversely affected. If we are unable to ensure high standards of probity and integrity in the gaming promoters with whom we are associated, our reputation may suffer or we may be subject to sanctions, including the loss of Melco Crown Gaming’s subconcession. Gaming promoters, who organize tours for rolling chip patrons to casinos in Macau, are responsible for a portion of our gaming revenues in Macau. With the rise in casino operations in Macau, the competition for relationships with gaming promoters has increased. Currently we have agreements in place with approximately 26 gaming promoters. In addition, Crown has sales and marketing staff in Thailand, Hong Kong, China, Taiwan, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore and Macau devoted to attracting business of gaming promoters to Crown’s existing casinos, Crown Casino Melbourne and Burswood Casino. There can be no assurance that we will be able to utilize Crown’s relationships with regional gaming promoters or enter into additional agreements with other gaming promoters. If we are unable to utilize and develop relationships with gaming promoters, our ability to grow our gaming revenues will be hampered and we will have to seek alternative ways to develop and maintain relationships with rolling chip patrons, which may not be as profitable as relationships developed through gaming promoters. The Macau government has announced its intention to set a cap in relation to the level of commission payable to gaming promoters. If implemented, this policy may limit our capacity to develop successful relationships with gaming promoters and attract rolling chip patrons. In addition, the reputations of the gaming promoters we deal with are important to our own reputation and Melco Crown Gaming’s ability to continue to operate in compliance with its subconcession. While we endeavor to ensure high standards of probity and integrity in the gaming promoters with whom we are associated, we cannot assure you that the gaming promoters with whom we are associated will always maintain the high standards that we require. If we were to deal with a gaming promoter whose probity was in doubt or who failed to operate in compliance with Macau law consistently, this may be considered by regulators or investors to reflect negatively on our own probity and compliance records. If a gaming promoter falls below our standards of probity, integrity and legal compliance, we and our shareholders may suffer harm to our or their reputation, as well as worsened relationships with, and possibly sanctions from, gaming regulators with authority over our operations. 23 Table of Contents We are dependent on the reputation and integrity of the parties with whom we engage in business activities and we cannot assure you that these parties will always maintain high standards or suitability throughout the term of our association with them. Failure to maintain such high standards or suitability may cause us and our shareholders to suffer harm to our and the shareholders’ reputation, as well as impaired relationships with, and possibly sanctions from, gaming regulators. The reputation and integrity of the parties with whom we engage in business activities, in particular those who are engaged in gaming related activities, such as gaming promoters and developers and hotel operators that do not hold concessions or subconcessions and with which we have or may enter into services agreements, are important to our own reputation and to Melco Crown Gaming’s ability to continue to operate in compliance with its subconcession. For parties we deal with in gaming related activities, where relevant, the gaming regulators undertake their own probity checks and will reach their own suitability findings in respect of the activities and parties which we intend to associate with. In addition, we also conduct our internal due diligence and evaluation process prior to engaging such parties. Notwithstanding such regulatory probity checks and our own due diligence, we cannot assure you that the parties with whom we are associated will always maintain the high standards that gaming regulators and we require or that such parties will maintain their suitability throughout the term of our association with them. If we were to deal with any party whose probity was in doubt, this may reflect negatively on our own probity when assessed by the gaming regulators. Also, if a party associated with us falls below the gaming regulators’ suitability standards, we and our shareholders may suffer harm to our and the shareholders’ reputation, as well as impaired relationships with, and possibly sanctions from, gaming regulators with authority over our operations. The consolidation of operations of gaming promoters at Crown Macau under Ama International Limited, or Ama, has resulted in a significant proportion of our business becoming consolidated under one commercial arrangement, and has introduced into Macau the concept of an aggregator of gaming promoters, either of which could have an adverse impact on our future prospects. Leading gaming promoters are recognizing superior economics and negotiation leverage from operational scale and market aggregation. The consolidation of operations of gaming promoters at Crown Macau under Ama in December 2007 has resulted in a significant proportion of our business becoming consolidated under one commercial arrangement, giving Ama significant negotiation leverage which could result in changes in our operational agreement. In addition, duplicate aggregator operations could be launched at competitor properties which could result in the loss of business to such competitors. If we suffered a loss of business to a competitor, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and the price of our ADSs. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that anti-money laundering policies that we have implemented, and compliance with applicable anti-money laundering laws, will be effective to prevent our casino operations from being exploited for money laundering purposes. Macau’s free port, offshore financial services and free movements of capital create an environment whereby Macau’s casinos could be exploited for money laundering purposes. We have implemented anti-money laundering policies in compliance with all applicable anti-money laundering laws and regulations in Macau. However, we cannot assure you that any such policies will be effective in preventing our casino operations from being exploited for money laundering purposes. Any incidents of money laundering, accusations of money laundering or regulatory investigations into possible money laundering activities involving us, our employees, our gaming promoters or our customers could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business, cash flows, financial condition, prospects and results of operations. If Macau’s transportation infrastructure does not adequately support the development of Macau’s gaming and leisure industry, visitation to Macau may not increase as currently expected, which may adversely affect our projects. Macau consists of a peninsula and two islands and is connected to China by two border crossings. Macau has an international airport and connections to China and Hong Kong by road, ferry and helicopter. To support Macau’s planned future development as a mass-market gaming and leisure destination, the frequency of bus, plane and ferry services to Macau will need to increase. While various projects are under development to improve Macau’s internal and external transportation links, these projects may not be approved, financed or constructed in time to handle the projected increase in demand for transportation or at all, which could impede the expected increase in visitation to Macau and adversely affect our projects. Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness Our current, projected and potential future indebtedness could impair our financial condition, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our significant leverage. We have incurred and expect to incur, based on current budgets and estimates, secured long-term indebtedness, including the following: • approximately US$1.75 billion under the City of Dreams Project Facility primarily for the development and construction of City of Dreams, of which an amount equivalent to the entire facility amount less US$50 million has been drawn down as of the date of this annual report on Form 20-F; • financing for a significant portion of the costs of developing the Macau peninsula site in an amount which is as yet undetermined; and • financing for a significant portion of the costs of developing an apartment hotel complex at the City of Dreams site, in an amount which is as yet undetermined. 25 Table of Contents Our significant indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital needs, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes; • require us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which would reduce the funds available to us for our operations; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • subject us to higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates to the extent a portion of our debt will bear interest at variable rates; • cause us to incur additional expenses by hedging interest rate exposures of our debt and exposure to hedging counterparties’ failure to pay under such hedging arrangements, which would reduce the funds available for us for our operations; and • in the event we or one of our subsidiaries were to default, result in the loss of all or a substantial portion of our and our subsidiaries’ assets, over which our lenders have taken or will take security. We are in a development stage and currently do not generate sufficient cash flow to service our existing and projected indebtedness and after all our projects commence operations, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service obligations because our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make scheduled payments due on our existing and anticipated debt obligations and to fund planned capital expenditures and development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. We are in a development stage and our current operations are insufficient to support the debt service on our current and anticipated debt. We will require timely completion and generation of sufficient operating cash flow from our projects to service our current and future projected indebtedness. Our ability to obtain cash to service our existing and projected debt is subject to a range of economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. After the commencement of operations of our development projects, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our existing and projected debt obligations, in which case, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. We cannot assure you that any refinancing or restructuring would be possible, that any assets could be sold, or, if sold, of the timing of the sales or the amount of proceeds that would be realized from those sales. We cannot assure you that additional financing could be obtained on acceptable terms, if at all, or would be permitted under the terms of our various debt instruments then in effect. Our failure to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our existing and projected debt obligations, or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms, would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 26 Table of Contents The terms of our and our subsidiaries’ indebtedness may restrict our current and future operations and harm our ability to complete our projects and grow our business operations to compete successfully against our competitors. The City of Dreams Project Facility and associated facility and security documents that Melco Crown Gaming has entered into also contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on Melco Crown Gaming, and therefore, effectively on us. The covenants in the City of Dreams Project Facility restrict or limit, among other things, our and our subsidiaries’ ability to: • incur additional debt, including guarantees; • create security or liens; • dispose of assets; • make certain acquisitions and investments; • pay dividends, including to us, during the construction of the City of Dreams project; • make other restricted payments or apply revenues earned in one part of our operations to fund development costs or cover operating losses in another part of our operations; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • engage in new businesses; • issue preferred stock; and • enter into transactions with shareholders and affiliates. In addition, the restrictions under the City of Dreams Project Facility contain financial covenants, including requirements that we satisfy certain tests or ratios in the future, such as: • Consolidated Leverage Ratio, as defined in the City of Dreams Project Facility; • Consolidated Interest Cover Ratio, as defined in the City of Dreams Project Facility; and • Consolidated Cash Cover Ratio, as defined in the City of Dreams Project Facility. These covenants may restrict our ability to operate and restrict our ability to incur additional debt or other financing we may require, and impede our growth. 27 Table of Contents Draw down of advances under our debt facilities involve satisfaction of extensive conditions precedent and our failure to satisfy such conditions precedent will result in our inability to access loan advances under such facilities. We do not guarantee that we are able to satisfy all conditions precedent under our current or future debt facilities. Our current and future debt facilities require and will require satisfaction of extensive conditions precedent prior to the advance of loans under such facilities. The satisfaction of such conditions precedent may involve actions of third parties and matters outside of our control, such as government consents and approvals. If there is a breach of any terms or conditions of our debt facilities or other obligations and they are not cured or capable of being cured, such conditions precedent will not be satisfied. The inability to draw down loan advances in any debt facility may result in funding shortfall in our projects and we may not be able to fulfill our obligations and complete our projects as planned; such events may result in an event of default under such debt facility and may also trigger cross default in our other obligations and debt facilities. We do not guarantee that all conditions precedent to draw down loan advances under our debt facilities will be satisfied in a timely manner or at all. If we are unable to draw down loan advances under any current or future facility, we may have to find a new group of lenders and negotiate new financing terms or consider other financing alternatives. If required, it is possible that new financing would not be available or would have to be procured on substantially less attractive terms, which could damage the economic viability of the relevant development project. The need to arrange such alternative financing would likely also delay the construction of the project, which would affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Our failure to comply with the covenants contained in our or our subsidiaries’ indebtedness, including failure as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default that could materially and adversely affect our cash flow, operating results and our financial condition. If there were an event of default under one of our or our subsidiaries’ debt facilities, the holders of the debt on which we defaulted could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to become due and payable immediately. In addition, any event of default or declaration of acceleration under one debt facility could result in an event of default under one or more of our other debt instruments, with the result that all of our debt would be in default and accelerated. We cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt facilities, either upon maturity or if accelerated upon an event of default, or that we would be able to refinance or restructure the payments on those debt facilities. Further, if we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness at our subsidiaries that own or operate our properties, the lenders under those debt facilities could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness, which will constitute substantially all the assets and shares of our subsidiaries. In that event, any proceeds received upon a realization of the collateral would be applied first to amounts due under those debt instruments. The value of the collateral may not be sufficient to repay all of our indebtedness, which could result in the loss of your investment as a shareholder. 28 Table of Contents Current turmoil in the credit markets taken together with the role of the credit agencies may affect our ability to maintain current financing or obtain future financing which could result in delays in our project development schedule and could impact on our ability to generate revenue from present and future projects. The current turmoil in the credit markets may adversely affect our ability to maintain our current debt facility and to obtain additional or future financing for our current and future projects. If we are unable to maintain our current debt facility or obtain suitable financing for our current or future projects, this could cause delays in, or prevent completion of, the development of such projects. This may limit our ability to expand our business and may adversely impact our ability to generate revenue. Rolling over existing revolving loans drawn down under the City of Dreams Project Facility involves satisfaction of conditions precedent and our failure to satisfy such conditions precedent will result in our inability to rollover such revolving loans. We do not guarantee that we are able to satisfy all conditions precedent to rollover such revolving loans. The rolling over of existing revolving loans under our City of Dreams Project Facility will require satisfaction of conditions precedent prior to such rollovers. If there is a breach of any terms or conditions of our City of Dreams Project Facility and it is not cured or capable of being cured, such conditions precedent will not be satisfied. The inability to roll over such revolving loans may result in funding shortfall in our City of Dreams projects and we may not be able to fulfill our obligations and complete the project as planned. We do not guarantee that all conditions precedent to the rollover of existing revolving loans drawn under the City of Dreams Project Facility will be satisfied in a timely manner. If we are unable to roll over these revolving loans, it may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to Our Business and Operations in Macau Conducting business in Macau has certain political and economic risks that may lead to significant volatility and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. All of our operations are in Macau. Accordingly, our business development plans, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected by significant political, social and economic developments in Macau and in China and by changes in government policies or changes in laws and regulations or the interpretations of these laws and regulations. In particular, our operating results may be adversely affected by: • changes in Macau’s and China’s political, economic and social conditions; • further travel restrictions to Macau which may be imposed by China; • changes in policies of the government or changes in laws and regulations, or in the interpretation or enforcement of these laws and regulations; • changes in foreign exchange regulations; • measures that may be introduced to control inflation, such as interest rate increases or bank account withdrawal controls; and • changes in the rate or method of taxation. 29 Table of Contents Our operations in Macau are also exposed to the risk of changes in laws and policies that govern operations of Macau-based companies. Tax laws and regulations may also be subject to amendment or different interpretation and implementation, thereby adversely affecting our profitability after tax. Further, certain terms of our gaming subconcession may be subject to renegotiations with the Macau government in the future, including amounts we will be obligated to pay the Macau government in order to continue operations. Melco Crown Gaming’s obligations to make certain payments to the Macau government under the terms of its subconcession include a fixed annual premium per year and a variable premium depending on the number and type of gaming tables and gaming machines that we operate. The results of any renegotiations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The Macau government granted us a lease for a plot of land for Crown Macau and City of Dreams on August 13, 2008. However, we have yet to receive an occupancy permit for the City of Dreams site and we will apply for approval from the Macau government to increase the developable gross floor area of the City of Dreams. In addition, the Macau peninsula project is at an even earlier stage of development, and if we acquire the site we would need to obtain land concession modifications and development approvals from the Macau government. In January 2008, Former Secretary for Transport and Public Works of Macau, Mr. Ao Man-Long, was convicted and sentenced to a prison term of 27 years on charges involving corruption, bribery, irregular financial activities and money laundering. Those being tried and convicted in cases connected with the conviction of Mr. Ao in 2008 were related to local companies to whom several major public works and services contracts were awarded. During the investigation, additional individuals related to local Macau companies to whom land had been granted in land exchange procedures were detained and charged. After Mr. Ao’s arrest and removal from his post as Secretary for Transport and Public Works of Macau, which gave him jurisdiction over all land grants and public works and infrastructure projects in Macau, in December 2006, the Chief Executive of Macau personally assumed such role until Mr. Lao Sio-Io was appointed the new Secretary for Transport and Public Works in March 2007. In February and March 2009, Mr. Ao was subject to additional trial proceedings for further related charges. We cannot predict whether Mr. Ao’s removal and conviction, and any further prosecutions and investigations, will adversely affect the functioning of the Macau Land, Public Works and Transports Bureau, any approvals that are pending before it, or for which applications may be made in the future (including with respect to our projects), or will give rise to additional scrutiny or review of any approvals, including those for Crown Macau and City of Dreams, that were previously approved or granted through this Bureau and the Secretary for Transport and Public Works of Macau. As we expect a significant number of patrons to come to our properties from China, general economic conditions and policies in China could have a significant impact on our financial prospects. The current slowdown in economic growth and recent tightening of restrictions on travel imposed by China could adversely impact the number of visitors from China to our properties in Macau as well as the amounts they are willing to spend in our casinos, which could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations and financial condition. 30 Table of Contents Because we depend upon our properties in one market for all of our cash flow, we will be subject to greater risks than a gaming company that operates in more markets. We are and will be primarily dependent upon Mocha Clubs, Crown Macau, City of Dreams (upon its opening) and the Macau peninsula project (upon its development and completion) for our cash flow. Given that our current operations are and will be conducted only at properties in Macau, we will be subject to greater risks than a gaming company with operating properties in several markets. These risks include: • dependence on the gaming and leisure market in Macau and limited diversification of our businesses and sources of revenue; • a decline in economic, competitive and political conditions in Macau or generally in Asia; • inaccessibility to Macau due to inclement weather, road construction or closure of primary access routes; • a decline in air or ferry passenger traffic to Macau due to higher ticket costs, fears concerning travel or otherwise; • travel restrictions to Macau imposed now or in the future by China; • changes in Macau governmental laws and regulations, or interpretations thereof, including gaming laws and regulations; • natural and other disasters, including typhoons, outbreaks of infectious diseases or terrorism, affecting Macau; • that the number of visitors to Macau does not increase at the rate that we have expected; and • a decrease in gaming activities at our properties. Any of these conditions or events could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our gaming operations could be adversely affected by restrictions on the export of the Renminbi and limitations of the Pataca exchange markets. Gaming operators in Macau are currently prohibited from accepting wagers in Renminbi, the currency of China. There are currently restrictions on the export of the Renminbi outside of mainland China, including to Macau. For example, Chinese traveling abroad are only allowed to take a total of RMB20,000 plus the equivalent of up to US$5,000 out of China. Restrictions on the export of the Renminbi may impede the flow of gaming customers from China to Macau, inhibit the growth of gaming in Macau and negatively impact our operations. 31 Table of Contents Our revenues in Macau are denominated in H.K. dollars and Patacas, the legal currency of Macau. Although currently permitted, we cannot assure you that H.K. dollars and Patacas will continue to be freely exchangeable into U.S. dollars. Also, because the currency market for Patacas is relatively small and undeveloped, our ability to convert large amounts of Patacas into U.S. dollars over a relatively short period of time may be limited. As a result, we may experience difficulty in converting Patacas into U.S. dollars. Terrorism and the uncertainty of war, economic downturns and other factors affecting discretionary consumer spending and leisure travel may reduce visitation to Macau and harm our operating results. The strength and profitability of our business depends on consumer demand for casino resorts and leisure travel in general. Changes in Asian consumer preferences or discretionary consumer spending could harm our business. Terrorist acts could have a negative impact on international travel and leisure expenditures, including lodging, gaming and tourism. We cannot predict the extent to which future terrorist acts may affect us, directly or indirectly. In addition to fears of war and future acts of terrorism, other factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, including general economic conditions, amounts of disposable consumer income, fears of recession and lack of consumer confidence in the economy, may negatively impact our business. Consumer demand for hotel casino resorts and the type of luxury amenities we currently offer and plan to offer in the future are highly sensitive to downturns in the economy. An extended period of reduced discretionary spending and/or disruptions or declines in airline travel could significantly harm our operations. An outbreak of the highly pathogenic avian influenza caused by the H5N1 virus (avian flu or bird flu), Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, or other contagious disease may have an adverse effect on the economies of certain Asian countries and may adversely affect our results of operations. During 2004, large parts of Asia experienced unprecedented outbreaks of avian flu which, according to a report of the World Health Organization, or WHO, in 2004, placed the world at risk of an influenza pandemic with high mortality and social and economic disruption. As of March 2, 2009, the WHO has confirmed a total of 256 fatalities in a total number of 409 cases reported to the WHO, which only reports laboratory confirmed cases of avian flu since 2003. In particular, Guangdong Province, PRC, which is located across the Zhuhai Border from Macau, has confirmed several cases of avian flu. Currently, fully effective avian flu vaccines have not yet been developed and there is evidence that the H5N1 virus is evolving so there can be no assurance that an effective vaccine can be discovered in time to protect against the potential avian flu pandemic. In the first half of 2003, certain countries in Asia experienced an outbreak of SARS, a highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia, which seriously interrupted economic activities and caused the demand for goods and services to plummet in the affected regions. There can be no assurance that an outbreak of avian flu, SARS or other contagious disease or the measures taken by the governments of affected countries against such potential outbreaks, will not seriously interrupt our gaming operations or visitation to Macau, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The perception that an outbreak of avian flu, SARS or other contagious disease may occur again may also have an adverse effect on the economic conditions of countries in Asia. 32 Table of Contents Macau is susceptible to severe typhoons that may disrupt our operations. Macau is susceptible to severe typhoons. Macau consists of a peninsula and two islands off the coast of mainland China. In the event of a major typhoon or other natural disaster in Macau, our properties and business may be severely disrupted and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Although we or our operating subsidiaries do carry insurance coverage with respect to these events, our coverage may not be sufficient to fully indemnify us against all direct and indirect costs, including loss of business, that could result from substantial damage to, or partial or complete destruction of, our properties or other damages to the infrastructure or economy of Macau. Any fluctuation in the value of the H.K. dollar, U.S. dollar or Pataca may adversely affect our expenses and profitability. Although we will have certain expenses and revenues denominated in Patacas in Macau, our revenues and expenses will be denominated predominantly in Hong Kong dollars and in connection with most of our indebtedness and certain expenses, U.S. dollars. We expect to incur significant debt denominated in U.S. dollars, and the costs associated with servicing and repaying such debt will be denominated in U.S. dollars. The value of the H.K. dollar and Patacas against the U.S. dollar may fluctuate and may be affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions. Although the exchange rate between the H.K. dollar to the U.S. dollar has been pegged since 1983 and the Pataca is pegged to the H.K. dollar, we cannot assure you that the H.K. dollar will remain pegged to the U.S. dollar and that the Pataca will remain pegged to the H.K. dollar. We do not hedge our exposure to foreign currencies. Instead we maintain a certain amount of our operating funds in the same currencies in which we have obligations, thereby reducing our exposure to currency fluctuations. Any significant fluctuations in the exchange rates between H.K. dollars or Patacas to U.S. dollars may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition. For example, to the extent that we are required to convert U.S. dollar financings into H.K. dollars or Patacas for our operations, fluctuations in the exchange rates between H.K. dollars or Patacas against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the amounts we receive from the conversion. Contract parties may not be able to secure adequate financing. During the course of our business, we may enter into agreements with contract parties from which we may derive income in relation to the operation of gaming business. The inability of such contract parties to raise sufficient funds to develop and/or undertake the relevant project and gaming operations may affect our ability to derive such income as contracted for in the relevant agreements, and this may have an adverse impact on our business. 33 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Corporate Structure and Ownership Our existing shareholders will have a substantial influence over us and their interests in our business may be different than yours. Melco and Crown together own the substantial majority of our outstanding shares, with each beneficially holding approximately 37.57% of our outstanding ordinary shares (exclusive of any ordinary shares represented by ADSs held by Melco Crown SPV Limited or the SPV) as of the date of this Form 20-F. Melco and Crown have entered into a shareholders deed regarding the voting of their shares of our company under which each will agree to, among other things, vote its shares in favor of three nominees to our board designated by the other. As a result, Melco and Crown, if they act together, will have the power, among other things, to elect directors to our board, including six of ten directors who are designated nominees of Crown and Melco, appoint and change our management, affect our legal and capital structure and our day-to-day operations, approve material mergers, acquisitions, dispositions and other business combinations and approve any other material transactions and financings. These actions may be taken in many cases without the approval of independent directors or other shareholders and the interests of these shareholders may conflict with your interests as minority shareholders. If Melco or Crown provides shareholder support to us in the form of shareholder loans or provides credit support by guaranteeing our obligations, they may become our creditors with different interests than shareholders with only equity interests in us. The concentration of controlling ownership of our shares may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our ADSs. Melco and Crown may pursue additional casino projects in Asia, which, along with their current operations, may compete with our projects in Macau which may have adverse consequences to us and the interests of our minority shareholders. Melco and Crown may take action to construct and operate new gaming projects located in other countries in the Asian region, which, along with their current operations, may compete with our projects in Macau and could have adverse consequences to us and the interests of our minority shareholders. We could face competition from these other gaming projects. We also face competition from regional competitors, which include Crown’s Crown Casino Melbourne and Burswood Casino in Australia. We expect to continue to receive significant support from both Melco and Crown in terms of their local experience, operating skills, international experience and high standards. Specifically, we have support arrangements with Melco and Crown under which they provide us technical expertise in connection with the development of the City of Dreams and the Macau peninsula projects and the operations of the Crown Macau and the Mocha Clubs businesses. Should Melco or Crown decide to focus more attention on casino gaming projects located in other areas of Asia that may be expanding or commencing their gaming industries, or should economic conditions or other factors result in a significant decrease in gaming revenues and number of patrons in Macau, Melco or Crown may make strategic decisions to focus on their other projects rather than us, which could adversely affect our growth. We cannot guarantee you that Melco and Crown will make strategic and other decisions which do not adversely affect our business. 34 Table of Contents Business conducted through joint ventures involves certain risks. We were initially formed as a 50/50 joint venture between Melco and PBL as their exclusive vehicle to carry on casino, gaming machine and casino hotel operations in Macau. Subsequently, Crown acquired all the gaming businesses and investments of PBL, including PBL’s investment in MPEL. As a joint venture controlled by Melco and Crown, there are special risks associated with the possibility that Melco and Crown may: (1) have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours or that are inconsistent with each other’s interests or goals, causing disagreement between them or between them and us which harms our business; (2) have operations and projects elsewhere in Asia that compete with our businesses in Macau and for available resources and management attention within the joint venture group; (3) take actions contrary to our policies or objectives; (4) be unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations under the relevant joint venture or shareholders’ deed; or (5) have financial difficulties. In addition, there is no assurance that the laws and regulations relating to foreign investment in Melco’s or Crown’s governing jurisdictions will not be altered in such a manner as to result in a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Changes in our share ownership, including a change of control or a change in the amounts or relative percentages of our shares owned by Melco and Crown, could result in our inability to draw loans or events of default under our indebtedness. The City of Dreams Project Facility includes provisions under which we may suffer an event of default upon the occurrence of a change of control with respect to Melco Crown Gaming, or a decline in the aggregate indirect holdings of Melco Crown Gaming shares by Melco and Crown below certain thresholds. These provisions are most restrictive during the time when our projects have not commenced commercial operation. Any occurrence of these events could be outside our control and could result in defaults and cross-defaults which cause the termination and acceleration of up to all of our credit facilities and potential enforcement of remedies by our lenders, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are a holding company and our only material sources of cash are and are expected to be dividends, distributions and payments under shareholder loans from our subsidiaries. We are a holding company with no material business operations of our own. Our only significant asset is the capital stock of our subsidiaries. We conduct virtually all of our business operations through our subsidiaries. Accordingly, our only material sources of cash are dividends, distributions and payments with respect to our ownership interests in or shareholder loans that we may make to our subsidiaries that are derived from the earnings and cash flow generated by our operating properties. Our subsidiaries might not generate sufficient earnings and cash flow to pay dividends, distributions or payments under shareholder loans in the future. In addition, our subsidiaries’ debt instruments and other agreements, including those that we have entered into in connection with the City of Dreams project, limit or prohibit, or are expected to limit or prohibit, certain payments of dividends, other distributions or payments under shareholder loans to us. 35 Table of Contents Crown’s investment in our company is subject to regulatory review in several jurisdictions and if regulators in those jurisdictions were to find that we, Crown or Melco failed to comply with certain regulatory requirements and standards, then Crown maybe required to withdraw from the joint venture. Crown, through wholly owned subsidiaries, owns and operates the Crown Casino in Melbourne, Australia and the Burswood Casino in Perth, Australia. Crown’s wholly owned subsidiaries hold casino licenses issued by the States of Victoria and Western Australia in Australia. Crown, through a 50% owned joint venture subsidiary, owns and operates three casinos in the United Kingdom. The joint venture owns a 50% interest in a fourth casino in the United Kingdom. Crown, through a 50% owned joint venture subsidiary, operates under a management agreement with the relevant provincial government authority seven casinos in British Columbia and two casinos in Alberta in Canada. Under a recently announced Preferred Purchase Agreement, Crown is required to be approved by gaming regulators in the States of Nevada and Pennsylvania in the United States in order to make an investment in Cannery Casino Resorts LLC which owns and operates casinos in those states. In all jurisdictions in which Crown, or one of its wholly owned subsidiaries, holds a gaming license or Crown has a significant investment in a company which holds gaming licenses, gaming regulators are empowered to investigate associates, including business associates of Crown Limited to determine whether the associate is of good repute and of sound financial resources. If, as a result of such investigation, the relevant gaming regulator determines that, by reason of its association, Crown has ceased to be suitable to hold a gaming license or to hold a substantial investment in the holder of a gaming license then the relevant gaming regulator may direct Crown to terminate its association or risk losing its gaming license or approval to invest in the holder of a gaming license in the relevant jurisdiction. If actions by us or our subsidiaries or by Melco or Crown fail to comply with the regulatory requirements and standards of the jurisdictions in which Crown owns or operates casinos or in which companies in which Crown holds a substantial investment own or operate casinos or if there are changes in gaming laws and regulations or the interpretation or enforcement of such laws and regulations in such jurisdictions, then Crown may be required to withdraw from its joint venture with Melco or limit its involvement in one or more aspects of our gaming operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Withdrawal by Crown from its joint venture with Melco could cause the failure of conditions to drawing loans under our credit facilities or the occurrence of events that default under our credit facilities or as contemplated by our founders under their joint venture agreement. 36 Table of Contents Risks Relating to the ADSs The trading price of our ADSs has been volatile and may continue to be volatile regardless of our operating performance. The trading price of our ADSs has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. Our ADSs were first quoted on the Nasdaq Global Market beginning on December 19, 2006, and were upgraded to trade on the Nasdaq Global Select Market on January 2, 2009. During the period from December 19, 2006 until March 25, 2009, the trading prices of our ADSs ranged from US$2.27 to US$23.55 per ADS and the closing sale price on March 25, 2009 was US$3.62 per ADS. The market price for our ADSs may continue to be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • uncertainties or delays relating to the financing, completion and successful operation of our projects; • developments in the Macau market or other Asian gaming markets, including the announcement or completion of major new projects by our competitors; • regulatory developments affecting us or our competitors; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other gaming and leisure industry companies; • addition or departure of our executive officers and key personnel; • fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar, Hong Kong dollar, Pataca and Renminbi; • release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares or ADSs; and • sales or perceived sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. 37 Table of Contents We currently do not intend to pay dividends, and we cannot assure you that we will make dividend payments in the future. We may pay dividends to shareholders in the future; however, such payments will depend upon a number of factors, including our results of operations, earnings, capital requirements and surplus, general financial conditions, contractual restrictions and other factors considered relevant by our board of directors. We currently intend to retain all of our earnings to finance the development and expansion of our business. Accordingly, we do not intend to declare or pay cash dividends on our ordinary shares in the near to medium term. Except as permitted under the Cayman Islands Companies Law (as amended) and the common law of the Cayman Islands, we are not permitted to distribute dividends unless we have a profit, realized or unrealized, or a reserve set aside from profits which the directors of our company determine is no longer needed. We currently have no reserve set aside from profits for the payment of dividends. We cannot assure you that we will make any dividend payments on our ordinary shares in the future. Our ability to pay dividends, and our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends to us, may be further subject to restrictive covenants contained in the City of Dreams Project Facility, and in other facility agreements governing indebtedness we and our subsidiaries may incur. Substantial future sales or perceived sales of our ADSs in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. All of the ordinary shares beneficially held by Melco and Crown are available for sale, subject to volume and other restrictions, as applicable, under Rule 144 and Rule 701 under the Securities Act and subject to the terms of their shareholders’ deed. To the extent these shares are sold into the market, the market price of our ADSs could decline. In addition, Melco and Crown have the right to cause us to register the sale of their shares under the Securities Act, subject to the terms of their shareholders’ deed. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in these shares becoming freely tradable as ADSs without restriction under the Securities Act immediately upon the effectiveness of the registration. Sales of these registered shares in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Any decision by us to file additional registration statements to raise further equity in the market, which would result in dilution to existing shareholders, could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Holders of ADSs have fewer rights than shareholders and must act through the depositary to exercise those rights. Holders of ADSs do not have the same rights of our shareholders and may only exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares of the depositary and in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under our amended and restated articles of association, the minimum notice period required to convene a general meeting is seven days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw your ordinary shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your ADSs. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ADSs are not voted as you requested. In addition, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to convene a shareholder meeting. 38 Table of Contents You may be subject to limitations on transfers of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings and you may not receive cash dividends if it is unlawful or impractical to make them available to you. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary bank will not make rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act, or exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. In addition, the depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is unlawful, inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute such property and you will not receive such distribution. 39 Table of Contents We are a Cayman Islands exempted company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than that under U.S. law, you may have less protection for your shareholder rights than you would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law (as amended) and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as that from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary duties of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a U.S. public company. You may have difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us. We are a Cayman Islands exempted company and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. All of our current operations, and administrative and corporate functions are conducted in Macau and Hong Kong. In addition, substantially all of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in Cayman Islands, Macau and Hong Kong courts judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands, Macau or Hong Kong would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. In addition, it is uncertain whether such Cayman Islands, Macau or Hong Kong courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, Macau or Hong Kong against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. 40 Table of Contents We may be treated as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders. Although the applicable rules are not clear, we believe that we were not in 2008, and we do not currently expect to be in 2009, a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This determination is made annually at the end of each taxable year and is dependent upon a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including the value of our assets and the amount and type of our income. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will not become a PFIC or that the Internal Revenue Service of the United States will agree with our conclusion regarding our PFIC status for 2008 or any taxable year thereafter. If we are a PFIC in any year, U.S. Holders of the ADSs or ordinary shares could suffer certain adverse United States federal income tax consequences. See “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company”. 