D. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition and results of operations can be affected materially and adversely by any of the following risk factors. (1) Risks Relating to Our Early Stage of Operation (a) We are in an early stage of operations of our business and properties, and so we are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Our limited operating history may not serve as an adequate basis to judge our future operating results and prospects. In significant respects we remain in an early phase of our business operations and there is limited historical information available about our company upon which you can base your evaluation of our business and prospects. In particular, Altira Macau and City of Dreams commenced operations in May 2007 and June 2009, respectively. The Mocha Club business, which we acquired in 2005, commenced operations in 2003. Melco Crown Gaming acquired its subconcession in September 2006 and previously did not have any direct experience operating casinos in Macau. As a result, you should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks, expenses and challenges that we will face as an early-stage company with limited experience operating gaming businesses in an intensely competitive market. Among other things, we have continuing obligations to satisfy and comply with conditions and covenants under the US$1.75 billion City of Dreams Project Facility so as to be able to continue to roll over existing revolving loans drawn down under the facility and to maintain the facility. We have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by early-stage companies, and those risks and difficulties may be heightened in a rapidly developing market such as the gaming market in Macau. Some of the risks relate to our ability to: • fulfill conditions precedent to draw down or roll over funds from current and future credit facilities; • comply with covenants under the Senior Notes; • raise additional capital, as required; • respond to changing financing requirements. • operate, support, expand and develop our operations and our facilities; • attract and retain customers and qualified employees; • maintain effective control of our operating costs and expenses; • develop and maintain internal personnel, systems, controls and procedures to assure compliance with the extensive regulatory requirements applicable to the gaming business as well as regulatory compliance as a public company; • respond to competitive market conditions; • respond to changes in our regulatory environment; • identify suitable locations and enter into new leases or right to use agreements (which are similar to license agreements) for new Mocha Clubs; and • renew or extend lease agreements for existing Mocha Clubs. If we are unable to complete any of these tasks, we may be unable to operate our businesses in the manner we contemplate and generate revenues from such projects in the amounts and by the times we anticipate. We may also be unable to meet the conditions to draw on our existing or future financing facilities in order to fund various activities or may suffer a default under our existing or future financing facilities or the Senior Notes. If any of these events were to occur, it would cause a material adverse effect on our business and prospects, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. 11 Table of Contents (2) Risks Relating to the Operation of Our Properties (a) Because we are and will be dependent upon a limited number of properties for a substantial portion of our cash flow, we are and will be subject to greater risks than a gaming company with more operating properties. We are primarily dependent upon City of Dreams, Altira Macau and Mocha Clubs for our cash flow. Given that our operations are and will be conducted based on a small number of principal properties, we are and will be subject to greater risks than a gaming company with more operating properties due to the limited diversification of our businesses and sources of revenue. (b) Servicing the debt of our subsidiaries requires a significant amount of cash, and our subsidiaries may not generate a sufficient level of cash flow from their businesses to make scheduled payments on their debt. Our subsidiaries’ ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on or to refinance their indebtedness depends on our subsidiaries’ future performance, which is subject to certain economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, 2008, 2007, and 2006, our earnings were insufficient to cover fixed charges. Our subsidiaries may not generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service their debt or make necessary capital repayments. If they are unable to generate such cash flow, our subsidiaries may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt, incurring additional indebtedness or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our subsidiaries’ ability to refinance their indebtedness will depend on the financial markets and their financial condition at such time. Our subsidiaries may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our subsidiaries’ debt obligations and a material adverse effect on the value of our ADSs. (c) Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our senior management, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services or their other responsibilities cause them to be unable to devote sufficient time and attention to our company. We place substantial reliance on the gaming, project development and hospitality industry experience and knowledge of the Macau market possessed by members of our senior management team, including our co-chairman and chief executive officer, Mr. Lawrence Ho. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team could hinder our ability to effectively manage our business and implement our growth and development strategies. Finding suitable replacements for Mr. Ho or other members of our senior management could be difficult, and competition for personnel of similar experience could be intense in Macau. We do not currently carry key person insurance on any members of our senior management team. (d) We have recruited a substantial number of new employees for each of our properties, and competition may limit our ability to attract or retain suitably qualified management and personnel. We require extensive operational management and staff to operate both Altira Macau and City of Dreams. Accordingly, we undertook a major recruiting program before both openings. The pool of experienced gaming and other skilled and unskilled personnel in Macau is limited. Many of our new personnel occupy sensitive positions requiring qualifications sufficient to meet gaming regulatory and other requirements or are required to possess other skills for which substantial training and experience are needed. Moreover, competition to recruit and retain qualified gaming and other personnel is expected to continue. In addition, we are not currently allowed under Macau government policy to hire non-Macau resident dealers, croupiers and supervisors. We cannot assure 12 Table of Contents you that we will be able to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified individuals to operate our properties or that costs to recruit and retain such personnel will not increase significantly. The inability to attract and retain qualified employees and operational management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Further, the Macau government is currently enforcing a labor policy pursuant to which the ratio of local to foreign workers that may be recruited for construction works shall have to be 1:1. At our stage of development and operation, the impact of this policy is relatively minimal. Notwithstanding, this could have a material adverse effect on our ability to complete future works on our properties or on the possible expansion of our business. Moreover, if the Macau government enforces similar restrictive ratios in other areas, such as the gaming, hotel and entertainment industries, this could have a materially adverse effect on the operation of our properties. (e) Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all losses that we may suffer from our operations. In addition, our insurance costs may increase and we may not be able to obtain the same insurance coverage in the future. We currently have various insurance policies providing certain coverage typically required by gaming and hospitality operations in Macau. Such coverage includes property damage, business interruption and general liability. These insurance policies provide coverage that is subject to policy terms, conditions and limits. There is no assurance that we will be able to renew such insurance coverage on equivalent premium cost, terms, conditions and limits upon policy renewals. The cost of coverage may in the future become so high that we may be unable to obtain the insurance policies we deem necessary for the operation of our projects on commercially practicable terms, or at all, or we may need to reduce our policy limits or agree to certain exclusions from our coverage. We cannot assure you that any such insurance policies we may obtain will be adequate to protect us from material losses. If we incur loss, damage or liability for amounts exceeding the limits of our current or future insurance coverage, or for claims outside the scope of our current or future insurance coverage, our financial conditions and business operations could be materially and adversely affected. For example, certain casualty events, such as labor strikes, nuclear events, acts of war, loss of income due to cancellation of conventions or room reservations arising from fear of terrorism, contagious or infectious disease, deterioration or corrosion, insect or animal damage and pollution may not be covered under our policies. As a result, certain acts and events could expose us to significant uninsured losses. In addition to the damages caused directly by a casualty loss such as fire or natural disasters, we may suffer a disruption of our business as a result of these events or be subject to claims by third parties who may be injured or harmed. While we intend to carry business interruption insurance and general liability insurance, such insurance may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and, in any event, may not be adequate to cover all losses that may result from such events. (3) Risks Relating to Our Business and Operations in Macau (a) Conducting business in Macau has certain political and economic risks that may lead to significant volatility and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. All of our operations are in Macau. Accordingly, our business development plans, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected by significant political, social and economic developments in Macau and China and by changes in government policies or changes in laws and regulations or the interpretations of these laws and regulations. In particular, our operating results may be adversely affected by: • changes in Macau’s and China’s political, economic and social conditions; • tightening of travel restrictions to Macau which may be imposed by China; • changes in policies of the government or changes in laws and regulations, or in the interpretation or enforcement of these laws and regulations; • changes in foreign exchange regulations; 13 Table of Contents • measures that may be introduced to control inflation, such as interest rate increases or bank account withdrawal controls; and • changes in the rate or method of taxation. Our operations in Macau are also exposed to the risk of changes in laws and policies that govern operations of Macau-based companies. Tax laws and regulations may also be subject to amendment or different interpretation and implementation, thereby adversely affecting our profitability after tax. Further, certain terms of our gaming subconcession may be subject to renegotiations with the Macau government in the future, including amounts we will be obligated to pay the Macau government in order to continue operations. Melco Crown Gaming’s obligations to make certain payments to the Macau government under the terms of its subconcession include a fixed annual premium per year and a variable premium depending on the number and type of gaming tables and gaming machines that we operate. The results of any renegotiations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The Macau government granted us land leases for lands for Altira Macau and for City of Dreams. The opening and operation of the areas of City of Dreams for which construction is not yet completed will be subject to our obtaining an occupancy permit for such areas. In January 2008, Former Secretary for Public Works and Transport of Macau, Mr. Ao Man Long, was convicted and sentenced to a prison term of 28.5 years on charges involving corruption, bribery, irregular financial activities and money laundering. Those being tried and convicted in cases connected with the conviction of Mr. Ao in 2008 are related to local companies to whom several major public works and services contracts were awarded and for whom certain licensing procedures were allegedly expedited. Mr. Lao Sio-Io was appointed the new Secretary for Transport and Public Works in March 2007. We cannot predict whether any ongoing or further prosecutions and investigations will adversely affect the functioning of the Macau Land, Public Works and Transports Bureau, any approvals that are pending before it, or for which applications may be made in the future (including with respect to our possible future projects), or will give rise to additional scrutiny or review of any approvals, including those for Altira Macau and City of Dreams, that were previously approved or granted through this Bureau and the Secretary for Transport and Public Works of Macau. As we expect a significant number of patrons to come to our properties from China, general economic conditions and policies in China could have a significant impact on our financial prospects. A slowdown in economic growth and tightening of credit availability or restrictions on travel imposed by China could adversely impact the number of visitors from China to our properties in Macau as well as the amounts they are willing to spend in our casinos, which could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations and financial condition. (b) The winnings of our patrons could exceed our casino winnings. Our revenues are mainly derived from the difference between our casino winnings and the winnings of our casino patrons. Since there is an inherent element of chance in the gaming industry, we do not have full control over our winnings or the winnings of our casino patrons. If the winnings of our patrons exceed our casino winnings, we may record a loss from our gaming operations, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. (c) Theoretical win rates for our casino operations depend on a variety of factors, some beyond our control. In addition to the element of chance, theoretical win rates are also affected by other factors, including players’ skill and experience, the mix of games played, the financial resources of players, the spread of table limits, the volume of bets placed by our players and the amount of time players spend on gambling — thus our actual win rates may differ greatly over short time periods, such as from quarter to quarter, and could cause our quarterly results to be volatile. Each of these factors, alone or in combination, have the potential to negatively impact our win rates, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents (d) Our gaming business is subject to cheating and counterfeiting. All gaming activities at our table games are conducted exclusively with gaming chips which, like real currency, are subject to the risk of alteration and counterfeiting. We incorporate a variety of security and anti-counterfeit features to detect altered or counterfeit gaming chips. Despite such security features, unauthorized parties may try to copy our gaming chips and introduce, use and cash in altered or counterfeit gaming chips in our gaming areas. Any negative publicity arising from such incidents could also tarnish our reputation and may result in a decline in our business, financial condition and results of operation. Our existing surveillance and security systems, designed to detect cheating at our casino operations, may not be able to detect all such cheating in time or at all, particularly if patrons collude with our employees. In addition, our gaming promoters or other persons could, without our knowledge, enter into betting arrangements directly with our casino patrons on the outcomes of our games of chance, thus depriving us of revenues. (e) Because we depend upon our properties in one market for all of our cash flow, we will be subject to greater risks than a gaming company that operates in more markets. We are and will be primarily dependent upon City of Dreams, Altira Macau and Mocha Clubs for our cash flow. Given that our current operations are and will be conducted only at properties in Macau, we will be subject to greater risks than a gaming company with operating properties in several markets. These risks include: • dependence on the gaming and leisure market in Macau and limited diversification of our businesses and sources of revenue; • a decline in economic, competitive and political conditions in Macau or generally in Asia; • inaccessibility to Macau due to inclement weather, road construction or closure of primary access routes; • a decline in air or ferry passenger traffic to Macau due to higher ticket costs, fears concerning travel or otherwise; • travel restrictions to Macau imposed now or in the future by China; • changes in Macau governmental laws and regulations, or interpretations thereof, including gaming laws and regulations; • natural and other disasters, including typhoons, outbreaks of infectious diseases or terrorism, affecting Macau; • that the number of visitors to Macau does not increase at the rate that we have expected; and • a decrease in gaming activities at our properties. Any of these conditions or events could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 15 Table of Contents (f) Our gaming operations could be adversely affected by restrictions on the export of the Renminbi and limitations of the Pataca exchange markets. Gaming operators in Macau are currently prohibited from accepting wagers in Renminbi, the currency of China. There are currently restrictions on the export of the Renminbi outside of mainland China, including to Macau. For example, Chinese traveling abroad are only allowed to take a total of RMB20,000 plus the equivalent of up to US$5,000 out of China. Restrictions on the export of the Renminbi may impede the flow of gaming customers from China to Macau, inhibit the growth of gaming in Macau and negatively impact our operations. Our revenues in Macau are denominated in H.K. dollars and Patacas, the legal currency of Macau. Although currently permitted, we cannot assure you that H.K. dollars and Patacas will continue to be freely exchangeable into U.S. dollars. Although the exchange rate between the H.K. dollar and the U.S. dollar has been pegged since 1983 and the Pataca is pegged to the H.K. dollar, we cannot assure you that the H.K. dollar will remain pegged to the U.S. dollar and that the Pataca will remain pegged to the H.K. dollar. Also, because the currency market for Patacas is relatively small and undeveloped, our ability to convert large amounts of Patacas into U.S. dollars over a relatively short period of time may be limited. As a result, we may experience difficulty in converting Patacas into U.S. dollars, which could hinder our ability to service a portion of our indebtedness and certain expenses denominated in U.S. dollars. (g) Terrorism and the uncertainty of war, economic downturns and other factors affecting discretionary consumer spending and leisure travel may reduce visitation to Macau and harm our operating results. The strength and profitability of our business depends on consumer demand for casino resorts and leisure travel in general. Changes in Asian consumer preferences or discretionary consumer spending could harm our business. Terrorist acts could have a negative impact on international travel and leisure expenditures, including lodging, gaming and tourism. We cannot predict the extent to which future terrorist acts may affect us, directly or indirectly. In addition to fears of war and future acts of terrorism, other factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, including general economic conditions, amounts of disposable consumer income, fears of recession and lack of consumer confidence in the economy, may negatively impact our business. Consumer demand for hotel, casino resorts and the type of luxury amenities we currently offer and plan to offer in the future are highly sensitive to downturns in the economy. An extended period of reduced discretionary spending and/or disruptions or declines in airline travel could significantly harm our operations. (h) An outbreak of the highly pathogenic avian influenza caused by the H5N1 virus (avian flu or bird flu), Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, or H1N1 virus (swine flu) or other contagious disease may have an adverse effect on the economies of certain Asian countries and may adversely affect our results of operations. During 2004, large parts of Asia experienced unprecedented outbreaks of avian flu which, according to a report of the World Health Organization, or WHO, in 2004, placed the world at risk of an influenza pandemic with high mortality and social and economic disruption. As of March 7, 2011, the WHO confirmed a total of 311 fatalities in a total number of 528 cases reported to the WHO, which only reports laboratory confirmed cases of avian flu since 2003. In particular, Guangdong Province, PRC, which is located across the Zhuhai Border from Macau, has confirmed several cases of avian flu. Currently, fully effective avian flu vaccines have not yet been developed and there is evidence that the H5N1 virus are evolving so there can be no assurance that an effective vaccine can be discovered in time to protect against the potential avian flu pandemic. In the first half of 2003, certain countries in Asia experienced an outbreak of SARS, a highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia, which seriously interrupted economic activities and caused the demand for goods and services to plummet in the affected regions. In April 2009, there was an outbreak of the Influenza A (H1N1) virus which originated in Mexico but has since spread globally including confirmed reports in Indonesia, Hong Kong, Japan, Malaysia, Singapore, and elsewhere in Asia. More recently, Influenza A (H1N1) virus have been detected in Africa and Asia. Human infections have been reported to WHO from Cambodia, Hong Kong, Egypt and Indonesia. Indonesia also recently confirmed its first Influenza A (H1N1) linked death. The Influenza A (H1N1) virus is believed to be highly contagious and may not be easily contained. There can be no assurance that an outbreak of avian flu, SARS, H1N1 (swine flu) or other contagious disease or the measures taken by the governments of affected countries against such potential outbreaks, will not seriously interrupt our gaming operations or visitation to Macau, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The perception that an outbreak of avian flu, SARS or other contagious disease may occur again may also have an adverse effect on the economic conditions of countries in Asia. 16 Table of Contents (i) Macau is susceptible to severe typhoons that may disrupt our operations. Macau is susceptible to severe typhoons. Macau consists of a peninsula and two islands off the coast of mainland China. In the event of a major typhoon or other natural disaster in Macau, our properties and business may be severely disrupted and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Although we or our operating subsidiaries do carry insurance coverage with respect to these events, our coverage may not be sufficient to fully indemnify us against all direct and indirect costs, including loss of business, that could result from substantial damage to, or partial or complete destruction of, our properties or other damages to the infrastructure or economy of Macau. (j) Any fluctuation in the value of the H.K. dollar, U.S. dollar or Pataca may adversely affect our indebtedness, expenses and profitability. Although the majority of our revenues are denominated in H.K. dollars, our expenses will be denominated predominantly in Patacas. In addition, a significant portion of our indebtedness and certain expenses is denominated in U.S. dollars, and the costs associated with servicing and repaying such debt will be denominated in U.S. dollars. The value of the H.K. dollar and Patacas against the U.S. dollar may fluctuate and may be affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions. Although the exchange rate between the H.K. dollar and the U.S. dollar has been pegged since 1983 and the Pataca is pegged to the H.K. dollar, we cannot assure you that the H.K. dollar will remain pegged to the U.S. dollar and that the Pataca will remain pegged to the H.K. dollar. We do not hedge our exposure to foreign currencies. Instead, we maintain a certain amount of our operating funds in the same currencies in which we have obligations, thereby reducing our exposure to currency fluctuations. Any significant fluctuations in the exchange rates between H.K. dollars or Patacas to U.S. dollars may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition. For example, to the extent that we are required to convert U.S. dollar financings into H.K. dollars or Patacas for our operations, fluctuations in the exchange rates between H.K. dollars or Patacas against the U.S. dollar could have an adverse effect on the amounts we receive from the conversion. (k) Our business opportunities may depend upon the performance by third parties of certain acts and failure to perform certain acts by such third parties may prevent us from recognizing any income from our business opportunities. Our business opportunities may depend upon the performance by third parties of certain acts which are out of our control. During the course of our business, we may enter into agreements with contract parties from which we may derive income in relation to the operation of gaming business. For example, Melco Crown Gaming entered into a services agreement with New Cotai Entertainment (Macau) Limited and New Cotai Entertainment, LLC in 2007, pursuant to which Melco Crown Gaming would operate the casino portions of the Macau Studio City project and retain a percentage of the gross gaming revenues from such casino operations. The project is being developed by a joint venture between eSun Holdings Limited, CapitaLand Integrated Resorts Pte Ltd and New Cotai Holdings, LLC. The joint venture parties are currently involved in litigation proceedings and therefore construction of the Macau Studio City project has not commenced and the formal opening of Macau Studio City has not been determined. We will not derive any income from the operation of gaming business at Macau Studio City unless the project is developed. Furthermore, the inability of such contract parties to raise sufficient funds to develop and/or undertake the relevant project and gaming operations may affect our ability to derive such income as contracted for in the relevant agreements, and this may have an adverse impact on our business. 17 Table of Contents (l) All our future construction projects such as our apartment hotel will be subject to significant development and construction risks, which could have a material adverse impact on related project timetables, costs and our ability to complete the projects. All our future construction projects will be subject to a number of risks, including: • lack of sufficient, or delays in availability of, financing; • changes to plans and specifications; • engineering problems, including defective plans and specifications; • shortages of, and price increases in, energy, materials and skilled and unskilled labor, and inflation in key supply markets; • delays in obtaining or inability to obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals; • changes in laws and regulations, or in the interpretation and enforcement of laws and regulations, applicable to gaming, leisure, residential, real estate development or construction projects; • labor disputes or work stoppages; • disputes with and defaults by contractors and subcontractors; • environmental, health and safety issues, including site accidents and the spread of viruses such as H1N1 or H5N1; • weather interferences or delays; • fires, typhoons and other natural disasters; • geological, construction, excavation, regulatory and equipment problems; and • other unanticipated circumstances or cost increases. The occurrence of any of these development and construction risks could increase the total costs, delay or prevent the construction or opening or otherwise affect the design and features of any future construction projects which we might undertake to complete. We cannot guarantee that our construction costs or total project costs for future projects will not increase beyond amounts initially budgeted. The Macau government has recently published for public consultation the proposed changes to Law no. 6/80/M of July 5, or the Land Law. Under the proposed changes to the Land Law the grant of land plots under lease shall be mandatorily subject to public tender unless the land grant is for housing civil servants or is based on public interest such as: (i) development of non-profitable activities in the education, cultural, health or sports fields; (ii) construction of public utility facilities; (iii) promotion of the diversification of the Macau industrial structure; or (iv) participation in the urban construction plans promoted by the Macau government. Moreover, amendments to the purpose of land lease agreements of land grants which remain provisional, such as the City of Dreams and Altira land grants, shall not be permitted until such land grants become definitive with completion of the development of the properties (except for changes required under any change of the applicable government urban planning). The occurrence of any of these development and construction risks could increase the total costs, delay or prevent the construction or opening or otherwise affect the design and features of any future construction projects which we might undertake to complete. We cannot guarantee that our construction costs or total project costs for future projects will not increase beyond amounts initially budgeted. 18 Table of Contents (4) Risks Relating to Our Operations in the Gaming Industry in Macau (a) Because our operations face intense competition in Macau and elsewhere in Asia, we may not be able to compete successfully and we may lose or be unable to gain market share. The hotel, resort and casino businesses are highly competitive. Our competitors in Macau and elsewhere in Asia include many of the largest gaming, hospitality, leisure and resort companies in the world. Some of these current and future competitors are larger than we are and may have more diversified resources and greater access to capital to support their developments and operations in Macau and elsewhere. We also compete to some extent with casinos located in other countries, such as Malaysia, North Korea, South Korea, the Philippines, Cambodia, Australia, New Zealand and elsewhere in the world, including Las Vegas and Atlantic City in the United States. In addition, certain countries, such as Singapore have legalized casino gaming and others may in the future legalize casino gaming, including Japan, Taiwan and Thailand. Singapore awarded a casino license to Las Vegas Sands and a second casino license to Genting International Bhd. in 2006. Genting International Bhd. opened its casino on February 14, 2010 and Las Vegas Sands opened its casino on April 27, 2010. We also compete with cruise ships operating out of Hong Kong and other areas of Asia that offer gaming. The proliferation of gaming venues in Southeast Asia could also significantly and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our regional competitors also include Crown’s Crown Casino in Melbourne, Australia and Burswood Casino in Perth, Australia and other casino resorts that Melco and Crown may develop elsewhere in Asia outside Macau. Melco and Crown may develop different interests and strategies for projects in Asia under their joint venture which conflict with the interests of our business in Macau or otherwise compete with us for Asian gaming and leisure customers. (b) The Macau government could grant additional rights to conduct gaming in the future, which could significantly increase competition in Macau and cause us to lose or be unable to gain market share. Melco Crown Gaming is one of six companies authorized by the Macau government to operate gaming activities in Macau. The Macau Government has announced that until further assessment of the economic situation in Macau there will not be any increase in the number of concessions or subconcessions. However, the policies and laws of the Macau government could change and the Macau government could grant additional concessions or subconcessions, and we could face additional competition which could significantly increase the competition in Macau and cause us to lose or be unable to maintain or gain market share. (c) Gaming is a highly regulated industry in Macau and adverse changes or developments in gaming laws or regulations could be difficult to comply with or significantly increase our costs, which could cause our projects to be unsuccessful. Gaming is a highly regulated industry in Macau. Current laws, such as licensing requirements, tax rates and other regulatory obligations, including those for anti-money laundering, could change or become more stringent resulting in additional regulations being imposed upon the gaming operations in the Altira Macau casino, the City of Dreams casino, the Mocha Clubs, and other future projects including Macau Studio City and any other locations we may operate from time to time. Any such adverse developments in the regulation of the gaming industry could be difficult to comply with and could significantly increase our costs, which could cause our projects to be unsuccessful. In September 2009, the Macau government set a cap on commission payments to gaming promoters of 1.25% of net rolling. This policy, which is being enforced as of December 2009, may limit our ability to develop successful relationships with gaming promoters and attract rolling chip patrons. Any failure to comply with these regulations may result in the imposition of liabilities, fines and other penalties and may materially and adversely affect our gaming subconcession. 19 Table of Contents Also the Macau government has announced its intention to raise the minimum age required for the entrance in casinos in Macau from 18 years of age to 21 years of age. As far as employment is concerned, it was further announced that this measure, when adopted, would allow casino employees to maintain their positions while in the process of reaching the minimum required age. If implemented, this could adversely affect our ability to engage sufficient staff for the operation of our projects. The Macau government announced that the number of gaming tables operating in Macau should not exceed 5,500 by the end of 2012, which may adversely affect the future expansion of our business. Also, the Macau government announced that it intends to restrict the ability of operators to open slot lounges, such as our Mocha Clubs, in residential areas. This policy may limit our ability to find new sites or maintain existing sites for the operation of our Mocha Clubs. Current Macau laws and regulations concerning gaming and gaming concessions and matters such as prevention of money laundering are, for the most part, fairly recent and there is little precedent on the interpretation of these laws and regulations. We believe that our organizational structure and operations are currently in compliance in all material respects with all applicable laws and regulations of Macau. However, these laws and regulations are complex and a court or an administrative or regulatory body may in the future render an interpretation of these laws and regulations or issue new or modified regulations that differ from our interpretation, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our activities in Macau are subject to administrative review and approval by various agencies of the Macau government. For example, our activities are subject to the administrative review and approval by the DICJ, the Health Department, Labour Bureau, Public Works Bureau, Fire Department, Finance Department and Macau Government Tourism Office. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain all necessary approvals, which may materially affect our business and operations. Macau law permits redress to the courts with respect to administrative actions. However, such redress is largely untested in relation to gaming regulatory issues. (d) Under Melco Crown Gaming’s subconcession, the Macau government may terminate the subconcession under certain circumstances without compensation to Melco Crown Gaming, which would prevent it from operating casino gaming facilities in Macau and could result in defaults under our indebtedness and a partial or complete loss of our investments in our projects. Under Melco Crown Gaming’s gaming subconcession, the Macau government has the right to unilaterally terminate our subconcession in the event of non-compliance by Melco Crown Gaming with its basic obligations under the subconcession and applicable Macau laws. If such a termination were to occur, Melco Crown Gaming would be unable to operate casino gaming in Macau. We would also be unable to recover the US$900 million consideration paid to Wynn Macau for the issue of the subconcession. For a list of termination events, please see “Item 4. Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Gaming Regulations — Subconcession Contract”. These events could lead to the termination of Melco Crown Gaming’s subconcession without compensation to Melco Crown Gaming. In many of these instances, the subconcession contract does not provide a specific cure period within which any such events may be cured and, instead, we would rely on consultations and negotiations with the Macau government to remedy any such violation. Melco Crown Gaming has entered into a service agreement with New Cotai Entertainment (Macau) Limited and New Cotai Entertainment, LLC pursuant to which Melco Crown Gaming would operate the casino portions of the Macau Studio City project. The joint venture parties developing the project are currently involved in litigation proceedings and therefore construction of the Macau Studio City project has not commenced and the formal opening of Macau Studio City has not been determined. If New Cotai Entertainment (Macau) Limited or other parties with whom we may, in the future, enter into similar agreements were to be found unsuitable or were to undertake actions that are inconsistent with Melco Crown Gaming’s subconcession terms and requirements, we could suffer penalties, including the termination of the subconcession. 20 Table of Contents Based on information from the Macau government, proposed amendments to the legislation with regard to reversion of casino premises are being considered. We expect that if such amendments take effect, on the expiry or any termination of Melco Crown Gaming’s subconcession, unless Melco Crown Gaming’s subconcession were extended, only that portion of casino premises within our developments as then designated with the approval of the Macau government, including all gaming equipment, would revert to the Macau government automatically without compensation to us. Until such amendments come into effect, all of our casino premises and gaming equipment would revert automatically without compensation to us. The subconcession contract contains various general covenants, obligations and other provisions as to which the determination of compliance is subjective. For example, compliance with general and special duties of cooperation, special duties of information, and with obligations foreseen for the execution of our investment plan may be subjective. We cannot assure you that we will perform such covenants in a way that satisfies the requirements of the Macau government and, accordingly, we will be dependent on our continuing communications and good faith negotiations with the Macau government to ensure that we are performing our obligations under the subconcession in a manner that would avoid any violations. Under Melco Crown Gaming’s subconcession, the Macau government is allowed to request various changes in the plans and specifications of our Macau properties and to make various other decisions and determinations that may be binding on us. For example, the Chief Executive of the Macau SAR has the right to require that we increase Melco Crown Gaming’s share capital or that we provide certain deposits or other guarantees of performance with respect to the obligations of our Macau subsidiaries in any amount determined by the Macau government to be necessary. Melco Crown Gaming is limited in its ability to raise additional capital by the need to first obtain the approval of the Macau governmental authorities before raising certain debt or equity. Melco Crown Gaming’s ability to incur debt or raise equity may also be restricted by our existing and any future loan facilities. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with these requirements or any other requirements of the Macau government or with the other requirements and obligations imposed by the subconcession. Furthermore, pursuant to the subconcession contract, we are obligated to comply not only with the terms of that agreement, but also with laws, regulations, rulings and orders that the Macau government might promulgate in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with any such laws, regulations, rulings or orders or that any such laws, regulations, rulings or orders would not adversely affect our ability to construct or operate our Macau properties. If any disagreement arises between us and the Macau government regarding the interpretation of, or our compliance with, a provision of the subconcession contract, we will be relying on the consultation and negotiation process with the applicable Macau governmental agency described above. During any such consultation, however, we will be obligated to comply with the terms of the subconcession contract as interpreted by the Macau government. Melco Crown Gaming’s failure to comply with the terms of its subconcession in a manner satisfactory to the Macau government could result in the termination of its subconcession. We cannot assure you that Melco Crown Gaming would always be able to operate gaming activities in a manner satisfactory to the Macau government. The loss of its subconcession would prohibit Melco Crown Gaming from conducting gaming operations in Macau which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and could result in defaults under our indebtedness and a partial or complete loss of our investments in our projects. Currently, there is no precedent on how the Macau government will treat the termination of a concession or subconcession upon the occurrence of any of the circumstances mentioned above. Some of the laws and regulations summarized above have not yet been applied by the Macau government. Therefore, the scope and enforcement of the provisions of Macau’s gaming regulatory system cannot be fully assessed at this time. 21 Table of Contents (e) Melco Crown Gaming’s subconcession contract expires in 2022 and if we were unable to secure an extension of its subconcession in 2022 or if the Macau government were to exercise its redemption right in 2017, we would be unable to operate casino gaming in Macau. Melco Crown Gaming’s subconcession contract expires in 2022. Under the subconcession contract, beginning in 2017, the Macau government has the right to redeem the subconcession contract by providing us with at least one year’s prior notice. In the event the Macau government exercises this redemption right, we would be entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. The standards for the calculation of the amount of such compensation or indemnity would be determined based on the gross revenue generated by City of Dreams during the tax year immediately prior to the redemption, multiplied by the remaining term of the subconcession. We would not receive any further compensation (including for consideration paid to Wynn Macau for the subconcession). We cannot assure you that Melco Crown Gaming would be able to renew or extend its subconcession contract on terms favorable to us, or at all. We also cannot assure you that if Melco Crown Gaming’s subconcession were redeemed, the compensation paid would be adequate to compensate us for the loss of future revenues. (f) While Melco Crown Gaming will not initially be required to pay corporate income taxes on income from gaming operations under the subconcession, this tax exemption will expire in 2011, and it may not be extended. The Macau government has granted to Melco Crown Gaming the benefit of a corporate tax holiday on gaming income in Macau for five years from 2007 to 2011. We have applied for an extension to the tax holiday in February 2011. However, we cannot assure you that it will be extended beyond the expiration date. Furthermore, the Macau government has granted to our subsidiary Altira Hotel Limited a declaration of utility purposes benefit, pursuant to which it is entitled to a vehicle tax holiday on certain vehicles purchased, provided there is no change in use or disposal of such vehicles within five years from the date of purchase and to a property tax holiday for a period of 12 years. Additionally, under the property tax holiday, the entity will also be allowed to double the maximum rates applicable regarding depreciation and reintegration for purposes of assessment of corporate income tax for the same 12 year period. We have applied for the same tax holidays for Melco Crown (COD) Hotels Limited in relation to the hotels at City of Dreams, but we cannot assure you that they will be granted by the Macau government on as favorable terms, or at all. (g) We extend credit to a portion of our customers, and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables from our credit customers. We have conducted, and expect to continue to conduct, our table gaming activities at our casinos on a credit basis as well as a cash basis. This credit is often unsecured, as is customary in our industry. High-end patrons typically are extended more credit than patrons who wager lower amounts. We may not be able to collect all of our gaming receivables from our credit customers. We expect that we will be able to enforce our gaming receivables only in a limited number of jurisdictions, including Macau and under certain circumstances Hong Kong. As most of our gaming customers are visitors from other jurisdictions, principally Hong Kong and the PRC, we may not have access to a forum in which we will be able to collect all of our gaming receivables because, among other reasons, courts of many jurisdictions do not enforce gaming debts. We may encounter forums that will refuse to enforce such debts, or we may be unable to locate assets in other jurisdictions against which to seek recovery of gaming debts. The collectability of receivables from international customers could be negatively affected by future business or economic trends or by significant events in the countries in which these customers reside. We may also in given cases have to determine whether aggressive enforcement actions against a customer will unduly alienate the customer and cause the customer to cease playing at our casinos. If we recognize large receivables from the credit extended to our customers, we could suffer a material adverse impact on our operating results if those receivables are deemed uncollectible. In addition, in the event a patron has been extended credit and has lost back to us the amount borrowed and the receivable from that patron is deemed uncollectible, Macau gaming tax will still be payable on the resulting gaming revenue notwithstanding our uncollectible receivable. 22 Table of Contents (h) The current credit environment may limit availability of credit to gaming patrons and may negatively impact our revenue. We conduct our table gaming activities at our casinos on a credit basis as well as a cash basis and our gaming promoters conduct their operations by extending credit to gaming patrons. The general economic downturn and turmoil in the financial markets have placed broad limitations on the availability of credit from credit sources as well as lengthening the recovery cycle of extended credit. Continued tightening of liquidity conditions in credit markets may constrain revenue generation and growth and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. (i) Our business may face a higher level of volatility due to our focus on the rolling chip segment of the gaming market. A significant proportion of our revenues is generated from the rolling chip segment of the gaming market. The revenues generated from the rolling chip segment of the gaming market are acutely volatile primarily due to high bets, and the resulting high winnings and losses. As a result, our business and results of operations and cash flows from operations may be more volatile from quarter to quarter than that of our competitors and may require higher levels of cage cash in reserve to manage this volatility. (j) We depend upon gaming promoters for a portion of our gaming revenue and if we are unable to establish, maintain and increase the number of successful relationships with gaming promoters, our ability to attract rolling chip patrons may be adversely affected. Gaming promoters, who organize tours for rolling chip patrons to casinos in Macau, are responsible for a portion of our gaming revenues in Macau. With the rise in casino operations in Macau, the competition for relationships with gaming promoters has increased. As of December 31, 2010, we had agreements in place with approximately 70 gaming promoters. If we are unable to utilize and develop relationships with gaming promoters, our ability to grow our gaming revenues will be hampered and we will have to seek alternative ways to develop and maintain relationships with rolling chip patrons, which may not be as profitable as relationships developed through gaming promoters. (k) We are impacted by the reputation and integrity of the parties with whom we engage in business activities and we cannot assure you that these parties will always maintain high standards or suitability throughout the term of our association with them. Failure to maintain such high standards or suitability may cause us and our shareholders to suffer harm to our and the shareholders’ reputation, as well as impaired relationships with, and possibly sanctions from, gaming regulators. The reputation and integrity of the parties with whom we engage in business activities, in particular those who are engaged in gaming related activities, such as gaming promoters and developers and hotel operators that do not hold concessions or subconcessions and with which we have or may enter into services agreements, are important to our own reputation and to Melco Crown Gaming’s ability to continue to operate in compliance with its subconcession. For parties we deal with in gaming related activities, where relevant, the gaming regulators undertake their own probity checks and will reach their own suitability findings in respect of the activities and parties which we intend to associate with. In addition, we also conduct our internal due diligence and evaluation process prior to engaging such parties. Notwithstanding such regulatory probity checks and our own due diligence, we cannot assure you that the parties with whom we are associated will always maintain the high standards that gaming regulators and we require or that such parties will maintain their suitability throughout the term of our association with them. If we were to deal with any party whose probity was in doubt, this may reflect negatively on our own probity when assessed by the gaming regulators. Also, if a party associated with us falls below the gaming regulators’ suitability standards, we and our shareholders may suffer harm to our and the shareholders’ reputation, as well as impaired relationships with, and possibly sanctions from, gaming regulators with authority over our operations. 23 Table of Contents In particular, the reputations of the gaming promoters we deal with are important to our own reputation and Melco Crown Gaming’s ability to continue to operate in compliance with its subconcession. While we endeavor to ensure high standards of probity and integrity in the gaming promoters with whom we are associated, we cannot assure you that the gaming promoters with whom we are associated will always maintain such high standards. If we were to deal with a gaming promoter whose probity was in doubt or who failed to operate in compliance with Macau law consistently, this may be considered by regulators or investors to reflect negatively on our own probity and compliance records. If a gaming promoter falls below our standards of probity, integrity and legal compliance, we and our shareholders may suffer harm to our or their reputation, as well as worsened relationships with, and possibly sanctions from, gaming and other regulators with authority over our operations or us. (l) Visitation to Macau may decline due to increased restrictions on visitations to Macau from citizens of mainland China. A significant number of our gaming customers come from mainland China. Any travel restrictions imposed by China could disrupt the number of patrons visiting our properties from mainland China. It is not known when, or if, policies similar to those implemented previously restricting visitation by mainland Chinese citizens to Macau and Hong Kong, will be put in place and visa policies may be adjusted, without notice, in the future. A decrease in the number of visitors from mainland China may adversely affect our results of operations. (m) We cannot assure you that anti-money laundering policies that we have implemented, and compliance with applicable anti-money laundering laws, will be effective to prevent our casino operations from being exploited for money laundering purposes. Macau’s free port, offshore financial services and free movements of capital create an environment whereby Macau’s casinos could be exploited for money laundering purposes. We have implemented anti-money laundering policies in compliance with all applicable anti-money laundering laws and regulations in Macau. However, we cannot assure you that any such policies will be effective in preventing our casino operations from being exploited for money laundering purposes, including from jurisdictions outside of Macau. In the normal course of business, we expect to be required by regulatory authorities from Macau and other jurisdictions to attend meetings and interviews from time to time to discuss our operations as they relate to anti-money laundering laws and regulations. Any incidents of money laundering, accusations of money laundering or regulatory investigations into possible money laundering activities involving us, our employees, our gaming promoters or our customers could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business, cash flows, financial condition, prospects and results of operations. (n) If Macau’s transportation infrastructure does not adequately support the development of Macau’s gaming and leisure industry, visitation to Macau may not increase as currently expected, which may adversely affect our projects. Macau consists of a peninsula and two islands and is connected to China by two border crossings. Macau has an international airport and connections to China and Hong Kong by road, ferry and helicopter. To support Macau’s planned future development as a gaming and leisure destination, the frequency of bus, plane and ferry services to Macau will need to increase. While various projects are under development to improve Macau’s internal and external transportation links, these projects may not be approved, financed or constructed in time to handle the projected increase in demand for transportation or at all, which could impede the expected increase in visitation to Macau and adversely affect our projects. 24 Table of Contents (o) Any violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or applicable Anti-Money Laundering Regulation could have a negative impact on us. We are subject to regulations imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”) and other anti-corruption laws which if violated may result in severe criminal and civil sanctions as well as other penalties. There has been a general increase in FCPA enforcement activity in recent years by the SEC and U.S. Department of Justice. Both the number of FCPA cases and sanctions imposed have risen dramatically. We have in place an ongoing FCPA compliance program which includes internal policies and procedures and training aimed to prevent and detect compliance issues and risks with these laws. However, we cannot assure you that our employees, contractors and agents will continually adhere to our compliance programs. Should they not follow our programs, we could be subject to investigations, prosecutions and other legal proceedings and actions which could result in civil penalties, administrative remedies and criminal sanctions, any of which may result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition. As a U.S. listed company with gaming operations solely in Macau, compliance with U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our operations increases our cost of doing business. We also deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to various reporting and anti-money laundering regulations. Any violation of anti-money laundering laws or regulations by us could have a negative effect on our results of operations. (5) Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness (a) Our current, projected and potential future indebtedness could impair our financial condition, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our significant leverage. We have incurred and expect to incur, based on current budgets and estimates, secured and unsecured long-term indebtedness, including the following: • approximately US$1.75 billion under the City of Dreams Project Facility primarily for the development and construction of City of Dreams, of which we have drawn down, as of the date of this annual report on Form 20-F, an amount equivalent to approximately US$1.68 billion, of which US$1.13 billion remains outstanding following repayments on May 26, 2010 and December 6, 2010 of US$444.1 million and US$107.3 million, respectively, of which an aggregate of US$479.8 million was funded by a portion of the proceeds from the sale of the Initial Notes; • US$600,000,000 from MCE Finance’s sale of the Initial Notes; and • financing for a significant portion of the costs of developing Phase II at the City of Dreams site, in an amount which is as yet undetermined. Our significant indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital needs, capital expenditure, acquisitions or general corporate purposes; • require us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which would reduce the funds available to us for our operations; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage as compared to our competitors, to the extent that they are not as leveraged; • subject us to higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates to the extent a portion of our debt bears interest at variable rates; • cause us to incur additional expenses by hedging interest rate exposures of our debt and exposure to hedging counterparties’ failure to pay under such hedging arrangements, which would reduce the funds available for us for our operations; and • in the event we or one of our subsidiaries were to default, result in the loss of all or a substantial portion of our and our subsidiaries’ assets, over which our lenders have taken or will take security. Any of these or other consequences or events could have a material adverse effect on our ability to satisfy our other debt obligations. 25 Table of Contents (b) We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service obligations. Our ability to make scheduled payments due on our existing and anticipated debt obligations, and to fund planned capital expenditure and development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash. We will require generation of sufficient operating cash flow from our projects to service our current and future projected indebtedness. Our ability to obtain cash to service our existing and projected debt is subject to a range of economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our existing and projected debt obligations, in which case, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. We cannot assure you that any refinancing or restructuring would be possible, that any assets could be sold, or, if sold, of the timing of the sales or the amount of proceeds that would be realized from those sales. We cannot assure you that additional financing could be obtained on acceptable terms, if at all, or would be permitted under the terms of our various debt instruments then in effect. Our failure to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our existing and projected debt obligations, or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms, would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. (c) If we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in our debt agreements or the indenture governing the Senior Notes, there could be a default under the terms of these agreements or the indenture governing the Senior Notes, which could cause repayment of our debt to be accelerated. If we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in our current or future debt obligations and other agreements or the indenture governing the Senior Notes, there could be a default under the terms of these agreements. In the event of a default under these agreements, the holders of the debt could terminate their commitments to lend to us, accelerate repayment of the debt and declare all amounts borrowed due and payable or terminate the agreements, as the case may be. Furthermore, some of our debt agreements, including the indenture governing the Senior Notes, contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. As a result, our default under one debt agreement may cause the acceleration of repayment of debt, including the Senior Notes, or result in a default under our other debt agreements, including the indenture governing the Senior Notes. If any of these events occur, we cannot assure you that our assets and cash flow would be sufficient to repay in full all of our indebtedness, or that we would be able to find alternative financing. Even if we could obtain alternative financing, we cannot assure you that it would be on terms that are favorable or acceptable to us. (d) The terms of the City of Dreams Project Facility may restrict our current and future operations and harm our ability to complete our projects and grow our business operations to compete successfully against our competitors. The City of Dreams Project Facility and associated facility and security documents that Melco Crown Gaming has entered into also contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on Melco Crown Gaming and its subsidiaries, and therefore, effectively, on us. The covenants in the City of Dreams Project Facility restrict or limit, among other things, our and our subsidiaries’ ability to: • incur additional debt, including guarantees; • create security or liens; • dispose of assets; 26 Table of Contents • make certain acquisitions and investments; • make loans, payments on certain indebtedness, distributions and other restricted payments or apply revenues earned in one part of our operations to fund development costs or cover operating losses in another part of our operations; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • engage in new businesses; • enter into or amend contracts; • issue preferred shares; and • enter into transactions with shareholders and affiliates. In addition, the restrictions under the City of Dreams Project Facility contain financial covenants, including requirements that we satisfy certain tests or ratios for the twelve month period commencing January 1, 2010 and ending December 31, 2010, and thereafter for each successive twelve month period ending on the last day of each quarter of our financial year, such as: • Consolidated Leverage Ratio, as defined in the City of Dreams Project Facility; • Consolidated Interest Cover Ratio, as defined in the City of Dreams Project Facility; and • Consolidated Cash Cover Ratio, as defined in the City of Dreams Project Facility. They also provide that, should a Change of Control (as defined in the City of Dreams Project Facility Agreement) occur, the facility will be cancelled and all amounts outstanding thereunder become immediately due and payable. We have made certain amendments to the City of Dreams Project Facility, which became effective on or about May 17, 2010. These covenants may restrict our ability to operate and restrict our ability to incur additional debt or other financing we may require, and impede our growth. (e) Our operations are restricted by the terms of the Senior Notes, which could limit our ability to plan for or to react to market conditions or meet our capital needs. The indenture governing the Senior Notes includes a number of significant restrictive covenants. Although these restrictive covenants, on the whole, are no more onerous than those pursuant to the City of Dreams Project Facility, such covenants restrict, among other things, the ability of MCE Finance and its subsidiaries to: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; • make specified restricted payments; • issue or sell capital stock of our restricted subsidiaries; • sell assets; • create liens; • enter into agreements that restrict the ability of us and our restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends, transfer assets or make intercompany loans; • enter into transactions with shareholders or affiliates; and • effect a consolidation or merger. 27 Table of Contents These covenants could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or to meet our capital needs. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and we may have to curtail some of our operations and growth plans to maintain compliance. (f) Drawdown or rollover of advances under our debt facilities involve satisfaction of extensive conditions precedent and our failure to satisfy such conditions precedent will result in our inability to access or roll over loan advances under such facilities. We do not guarantee that we are able to satisfy all conditions precedent under our current or future debt facilities. Our current and future debt facilities, including the City of Dreams Project Facility, require and will require satisfaction of extensive conditions precedent prior to the advance or rollover of loans under such facilities. The satisfaction of such conditions precedent may involve actions of third parties and matters outside of our control, such as government consents and approvals. If there is a breach of any terms or conditions of our debt facilities or other obligations and it is not cured or capable of being cured, such conditions precedent will not be satisfied. The inability to draw down or roll over loan advances in any debt facility may result in a funding shortfall in our operations and we may not be able to fulfill our obligations as planned; such events may result in an event of default under such debt facility and may also trigger cross default in our other obligations and debt facilities. We do not guarantee that all conditions precedent to draw down or roll over loan advances under our debt facilities will be satisfied in a timely manner or at all. If we are unable to draw down or roll over loan advances under any current or future facility, we may have to find a new group of lenders and negotiate new financing terms or consider other financing alternatives. If required, it is possible that new financing would not be available or would have to be procured on substantially less attractive terms, which could damage the economic viability of the relevant development project. The need to arrange such alternative financing would likely also delay the construction and/or operations of our future projects or existing properties, which would affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. (g) Our failure to comply with the covenants contained in our or our subsidiaries’ indebtedness, including failure as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default that could materially and adversely affect our cash flow, operating results and our financial condition. If there were an event of default under one of our or our subsidiaries’ debt facilities, the holders of the debt on which we defaulted could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to become due and payable immediately. In addition, any event of default or declaration of acceleration under one debt facility could result in an event of default under one or more of our other debt instruments, with the result that all of our debt would be in default and accelerated. We cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt facilities, either upon maturity or if accelerated upon an event of default, or that we would be able to refinance or restructure the payments on those debt facilities. Further, if we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness at our subsidiaries that own or operate our properties, the lenders under those debt facilities could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness, which will constitute substantially all the assets and shares of our subsidiaries. In that event, any proceeds received upon a realization of the collateral would be applied first to amounts due under those debt instruments. The value of the collateral may not be sufficient to repay all of our indebtedness. 28 Table of Contents (6) Risks Relating to Our Corporate Structure and Ownership (a) Our existing shareholders will have a substantial influence over us and their interests in our business may be different than yours. Melco and Crown together own the substantial majority of our outstanding shares, with each beneficially holding approximately 33.36% of our outstanding ordinary shares and ordinary shares represented by ADSs (exclusive of any ordinary shares represented by ADSs held by the SPV) as of March 17, 2011. Melco and Crown have entered into a shareholders deed regarding the voting of their shares of our company under which each will agree to, among other things, vote its shares in favor of three nominees to our board designated by the other. As a result, Melco and Crown, if they act together, will have the power, among other things, to elect directors to our board, including six of ten directors who are designated nominees of Crown and Melco, appoint and change our management, affect our legal and capital structure and our day-to-day operations, approve material mergers, acquisitions, dispositions and other business combinations and approve any other material transactions and financings. These actions may be taken in many cases without the approval of independent directors or other shareholders and the interests of these shareholders may conflict with your interests as minority shareholders. In addition, if Melco or Crown provides shareholder support to us in the form of shareholder loans or provides credit support by guaranteeing our obligations, they may become our creditors with different interests than shareholders with only equity interests in us. (b) Business conducted through joint ventures involves certain risks. We were initially formed as a 50/50 joint venture between Melco and PBL as their exclusive vehicle to carry on casino, gaming machine and casino hotel operations in Macau. Subsequently, Crown acquired all the gaming businesses and investments of PBL, including PBL’s investment in MCE. As a joint venture controlled by Melco and Crown, there are special risks associated with the possibility that Melco and Crown may: (1) have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours or that are inconsistent with each other’s interests or goals, causing disagreement between them or between them and us which harms our business; (2) have operations and projects elsewhere in Asia that compete with our businesses in Macau and for available resources and management attention within the joint venture group; (3) take actions contrary to our policies or objectives; (4) be unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations under the relevant joint venture or shareholders’ deed; or (5) have financial difficulties. In addition, there is no assurance that the laws and regulations relating to foreign investment in Melco’s or Crown’s governing jurisdictions will not be altered in such a manner as to result in a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. (c) Melco and Crown may pursue additional casino projects in Asia, which, along with their current operations, may compete with our projects in Macau which could have material adverse consequences to us and the interests of our minority shareholders. Melco and Crown may take action to construct and operate new gaming projects located in other countries in the Asian region, which, along with their current operations, may compete with our projects in Macau and could have adverse consequences to us and the interests of our minority shareholders. We could face competition from these other gaming projects. We also face competition from regional competitors, which include Crown’s Crown Casino in Melbourne, Australia and Burswood Casino in Perth, Australia. We expect to continue to receive significant support from both Melco and Crown in terms of their local experience, operating skills, international experience and high standards. Specifically, we have support arrangements with Melco and Crown under which they provide us technical expertise in connection with the on-going development of City of Dreams and the operations of the Altira Macau, City of Dreams and the Mocha Clubs businesses. Should Melco or Crown decide to focus more attention on casino gaming projects located in other areas of Asia that may be expanding or commencing their gaming industries, or should economic conditions or other factors result in a significant decrease in gaming revenues and number of patrons in Macau, Melco or Crown may make strategic decisions to focus on their other projects rather than us, which could adversely affect our growth. We cannot guarantee you that Melco and Crown will make strategic and other decisions which do not adversely affect our business. 29 Table of Contents (d) Changes in our share ownership, including a change of control or a change in the amounts or relative percentages of our shares owned by Melco and Crown, could result in our inability to draw loans or events of default under our indebtedness, or could require MCE Finance to make an offer to repurchase the Senior Notes. The City of Dreams Project Facility includes provisions under which we may suffer an event of default or incur an obligation to prepay the facility in full upon the occurrence of a change of control with respect to Melco Crown Gaming, or a decline in the aggregate indirect holdings of Melco Crown Gaming shares by Melco and Crown, below certain thresholds. Under the terms of the Senior Notes, a change of control in connection with a decrease of the holdings of Melco and Crown must be accompanied by a ratings decline in order to trigger a change of control. Furthermore, under the terms of the Senior Notes, MCE Finance must offer to repurchase the Senior Notes upon the occurrence of a change of control at a price equal to 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, additional amounts and liquidated damages, if any, to the date of redemption. Any occurrence of these events could be outside our control and could result in defaults and cross-defaults which cause the termination and acceleration of up to all of our credit facilities or the Senior Notes and potential enforcement of remedies by our lenders, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. (e) Crown’s investment in our company is subject to regulatory review in several jurisdictions and if regulators in those jurisdictions were to find that we, Crown or Melco failed to comply with certain regulatory requirements and standards, then Crown maybe required to withdraw from the joint venture. Crown, through wholly owned subsidiaries, owns and operates the Crown Casino in Melbourne, Australia and the Burswood Casino in Perth, Australia. Crown’s wholly owned subsidiaries hold casino licenses issued by the States of Victoria and Western Australia in Australia. Crown, through a 50% owned joint venture subsidiary, owns and operates three casinos in the United Kingdom. The joint venture owns a 50% interest in a fourth casino in the United Kingdom. Under a previously announced Preferred Purchase Agreement, Crown has been required to be approved by gaming regulators in the States of Nevada and Pennsylvania in the United States in relation to an investment in Cannery Casino Resorts LLC which owns and operates casinos in those states. In all jurisdictions in which Crown, or one of its wholly owned subsidiaries, holds a gaming license or Crown has a significant investment in a company which holds gaming licenses, gaming regulators are empowered to investigate associates, including business associates of Crown to determine whether the associate is of good repute and of sound financial resources. If, as a result of such investigation, the relevant gaming regulator determines that, by reason of its association, Crown has ceased to be suitable to hold a gaming license or to hold a substantial investment in the holder of a gaming license then the relevant gaming regulator may direct Crown to terminate its association or risk losing its gaming license or approval to invest in the holder of a gaming license in the relevant jurisdiction. If actions by us or our subsidiaries or by Melco or Crown fail to comply with the regulatory requirements and standards of the jurisdictions in which Crown owns or operates casinos or in which companies in which Crown holds a substantial investment own or operate casinos or if there are changes in gaming laws and regulations or the interpretation or enforcement of such laws and regulations in such jurisdictions, then Crown may be required to withdraw from its joint venture with Melco or limit its involvement in one or more aspects of our gaming operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Withdrawal by Crown from its joint venture with Melco could cause the failure of conditions to drawing loans under our credit facilities or the occurrence of events that default under our credit facilities or as contemplated by our founders under their joint venture agreement. 30 Table of Contents (7) Risks Relating to the ADSs (a) The trading price of our ADSs has been volatile since our ADSs began trading on Nasdaq and may be subject to fluctuations in the future, which could result in substantial losses to investors. The trading price of our ADSs has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. Our ADSs were first quoted on the Nasdaq Global Market beginning on December 19, 2006, and were upgraded to trade on the Nasdaq Global Select Market on January 2, 2009. During the period from December 19, 2006 until March 23, 2011, the trading prices of our ADSs ranged from US$2.27 to US$23.55 per ADS and the closing sale price on March 23, 2011 was US$7.57 per ADS. The market price for our ADSs may continue to be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • uncertainties or delays relating to the financing, completion and successful operation of our projects; • developments in the Macau market or other Asian gaming markets, including the announcement or completion of major new projects by our competitors; • regulatory developments affecting us or our competitors; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other gaming and leisure industry companies; • changes in our share of the Macau gaming market; • addition or departure of our executive officers and key personnel; • fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar, H.K. dollar, Pataca and Renminbi; • release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares or ADSs; • sales or perceived sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs or securities convertible or exchangeable or exercisable for ordinary shares or ADSs; and • rumors related to any of the above. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. (b) We currently do not intend to pay dividends, and we cannot assure you that we will make dividend payments in the future. We may pay dividends to shareholders in the future; however, such payments will depend upon a number of factors, including our results of operations, earnings, capital requirements and surplus, general financial conditions, contractual restrictions and other factors considered relevant by our board of directors. We currently intend to retain all of our earnings to finance the development and expansion of our business. Accordingly, we do not intend to declare or pay cash dividends on our ordinary shares in the near to medium term. Except as permitted under the Cayman Islands Companies Law (as amended) and the common law of the Cayman Islands, we are not permitted to distribute dividends unless we have a profit, realized or unrealized, or a reserve set aside from profits which the directors of our company determine is no longer needed. We currently have no reserve set aside from profits for the payment of dividends. We cannot assure you that we will make any dividend payments on our ordinary shares in the future. Our ability to pay dividends, and our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends to us, may be further subject to restrictive covenants contained in the City of Dreams Project Facility, the Senior Notes, and in other facility agreements governing indebtedness we and our subsidiaries may incur. (c) Substantial future sales or perceived sales of our ADSs in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. All of the ordinary shares beneficially held by Melco and Crown are available for sale, subject to volume and other restrictions, as applicable, under Rule 144 and Rule 701 under the Securities Act and subject to the terms of their shareholders’ deed. To the extent these shares are sold into the market, the market price of our ADSs could decline. 31 Table of Contents In addition, Melco and Crown have the right to cause us to register the sale of their shares under the Securities Act, subject to the terms of their shareholders’ deed. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in these shares becoming freely tradable as ADSs without restriction under the Securities Act immediately upon the effectiveness of the registration. Sales of these registered shares in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Any decision by us to raise further equity in the market, which would result in dilution to existing shareholders, could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. (d) Holders of ADSs have fewer rights than shareholders and must act through the depositary to exercise those rights. Holders of ADSs do not have the same rights of our shareholders and may only exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares of the depositary and in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under our amended and restated articles of association, the minimum notice period required to convene a general meeting is seven days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw your ordinary shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to holders of ADSs or carry out the voting instructions of holders of ADSs in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to holders of ADSs in a timely manner, but we cannot assure holders of ADSs that they will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that they can instruct the depositary to vote their ADSs. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, holders of ADSs may not be able to exercise their right to vote and they may lack recourse if their ADSs are not voted as they requested. In addition, in their capacity as an ADS holder, they will not be able to convene a shareholder meeting. (e) Holders of ADSs may be subject to limitations on transfers of your ADSs. ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. (f) Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings and you may not receive cash dividends if it is unlawful or impractical to make them available to you. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary bank will not make rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act, or exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. In addition, the depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is unlawful, inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute such property and you will not receive such distribution. 32 Table of Contents (g) We are a Cayman Islands exempted company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than that under U.S. law, our shareholders may have less protection in terms of shareholder rights than they would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law (as amended) and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as that from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary duties of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a U.S. public company. (h) You may have difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us. We are a Cayman Islands exempted company and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. All of our current operations, and administrative and corporate functions are conducted in Macau and Hong Kong. In addition, substantially all of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in Cayman Islands, Macau and Hong Kong courts judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands, Macau or Hong Kong would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. In addition, it is uncertain whether such Cayman Islands, Macau or Hong Kong courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, Macau or Hong Kong against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. (i) We may be treated as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders. Although the applicable rules are not clear, we believe that we were not in 2010, and we do not currently expect to be in 2011, a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, because this determination is made annually at the end of each taxable year and is dependent upon a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, such as the value of our assets (including goodwill) and the amount and type of our income, there can be no assurance that we will not be a PFIC in any taxable year or that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service will agree with our conclusion regarding our PFIC status in any taxable year. If we are a PFIC in any taxable year, U.S. Holders could suffer adverse consequences. See “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company”. 33 Table of Contents 