Item 1A. Risk Factors Future Changes in Interest Rates Could Reduce Our Net Income. Our net income largely depends on our net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest income is the difference between: • the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities; and • the interest we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. From June 30, 2004 to June 30, 2006 the Federal Reserve Board increased its target for the federal funds rate from 1.0% to 5.25%. While shorter-term market interest rates (which we generally use as a guide to price our deposits) increased during that period of time, longer-term market interest rates (which we generally use as a guide to price our longer-term loans) did not increase to the same degree. This “flattening” of the yield curve had a negative impact on our interest rate spread and net interest margin. As the impact of those interest rate changes worked their way through our loan, investment and deposit portfolios, our interest rate spread decreased to 1.51% for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2007 from 2.01% for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006, and our net interest margin, even though it benefited from the proceeds of our recent public offering, decreased to 2.13% for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2007 from 2.37% for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006. Based upon contractual rates, our interest rate spread was 1.26% at September 30, 2007. Following almost fifteen months with no changes to the federal funds target rate, on September 18, 2007, the Federal Reserve lowered its target rate by 0.50% to 4.75%. This initial lowering was followed by a 0.25% reduction on October 31, 2007 followed by another 0.25% reduction on December 11, 2007. These short-term rate reductions have an immediate and unfavorable impact on the amount of interest income that we earn on cash that is invested on an overnight basis ($0.8 billion at September 30, 2007) as well as a near term unfavorable impact on the amount of interest income we earn on our prime-based equity lines of credit ($1.6 billion at September 30, 2007). If we are not able to reduce the interest rates that we pay on our deposit accounts, we will experience additional compression in our interest rate spread and our net interest margin. In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities. A reduction in interest rates normally results in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities, as borrowers refinance their debt in order to reduce their borrowing costs. This creates reinvestment risk, which is the risk that we may not be able to reinvest the proceeds of loan and securities prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the loans or securities prior to receipt of the repayment. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. Changes in interest rates also affect the current market value of our interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. At September 30, 2007, the fair value of our available-for-sale agency securities, and mortgage-backed securities totaled $57 million. Unrealized net losses on these available-for-sale securities totaled $344 thousand at September 30, 2007 and are included, net of applicable income taxes, as a separate component, accumulated other comprehensive loss, reported in the stockholders’ equity section. Further decreases in the fair value of securities available-for-sale in future periods would further reduce stockholders’ equity. As of September 30, 2007, we were servicing $6.9 billion of loans sold to third parties, and the mortgage servicing rights associated with such loans had an estimated fair value, at such date, of $64.5 million. Generally, the value of mortgage servicing rights increases as interest rates rise and decreases as interest rates fall, because the estimated life and estimated income from the underlying loans increase with rising interest rates and decrease with falling interest rates. In addition to our own model, we evaluate interest rate sensitivity using a model prepared by the Office of Thrift Supervision. These models estimate the change in Third Federal Savings and Loan’s net portfolio value 33 over a range of interest rate scenarios. Net portfolio value is the discounted present value of expected cash flows from assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet contracts. At September 30, 2007, in the event of an immediate 200 basis point increase in all interest rates, the Office of Thrift Supervision model projects that we would experience a $361 million, or 24%, decrease in net portfolio value, and our internal model projects that we would experience a $454 million, or 29%, decrease in net portfolio value. Our internal calculations further project that, at September 30, 2007, in the event of an immediate 200 basis point increase in all interest rates, we would expect our projected net interest income for the twelve months ended September 30, 2008 to decrease by 18%. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” Loans Originated Through Our Home Today Program Have Higher Delinquency Rates than the Remainder of Our Loan Portfolio. Through our Home Today program, we offer loans with our standard terms to borrowers who might not otherwise qualify for such loans. To qualify for our Home Today program, a borrower must complete financial management education and counseling and must be referred to us by a sponsoring organization with which we have partnered as part of the program and must meet a minimum credit score threshhold. Because we apply less stringent underwriting and credit standards to these loans, loans originated under the Home Today program have greater credit risk than traditional residential real estate mortgage loans. As of September 30, 2007, we had $304 million of outstanding loans that were originated through our Home Today program, 27% of which were delinquent 30 days or more, compared to 1.4% for our portfolio of non-Home Today loans as of that date. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2007, we incurred net charge-offs of $0.9 million on loans originated through our Home Today program, compared to $4.3 million of net charge-offs for our non-Home Today portfolio. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has Issued New Rules that Will Increase Our Deposit Insurance Assessments and Reduce Our Income. For approximately ten years prior to January 2007, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) did not impose deposit insurance premiums on financial institutions, such as Third Federal Savings and Loan, that were, among other criteria, well-capitalized. On November 2, 2006, the FDIC adopted final regulations that, prospectively, assess insurance premiums based on risk. As a result, the new regulation will enable the FDIC to more closely tie each financial institution’s deposit insurance premiums to the risk it poses to the deposit insurance fund. Under the new rules, the FDIC will evaluate the risk of each financial institution based on its supervisory rating, its financial ratios, and its long-term debt issuer rating. The new rates for nearly all banks and savings institutions vary between five and seven cents for every $100 of domestic deposits. As a part of the new regulations, in general, institutions that contributed to the recapitalization of the Savings Association Insurance Fund in 1996 were eligible to receive a one-time assessment credit. For Third Federal Savings and Loan, that credit totaled $6.3 million and is available to offset future deposit insurance assessments. Quarterly deposit insurance assessment notices are provided by the FDIC which designate the insurance period and the amount of credit used to reduce the assessment. As of September 30, 2007, insurance premium assessment notices have been received which, by FDIC designation, pertain to the quarters ended March 31, 2007 and June 30, 2007. In those notices, a total of $2.6 million of the one-time credit has been used to reduce the assessment, leaving a remaining credit of $3.8 million available to reduce future assessments. When the remaining one-time credit has been exhausted, and to the extent that the FDIC continues to impose additional deposit insurance premium assessments, our income before income taxes will be commensurately reduced. A Downturn in the Economy May Adversely Affect Our Business. Our performance is significantly impacted by the general economic conditions in the States of Ohio and Florida, and surrounding areas. In addition, many of the loans in our loan portfolio are secured by real estate located in our primary market areas. Negative conditions in the real estate markets where collateral for a mortgage loan is located could adversely affect a borrower’s ability to repay the loan and the value of the 34 collateral securing the loan. Real estate values are affected by various other factors, including supply and demand, changes in general or regional economic conditions, interest rates, governmental rules or policies and natural disasters. Adverse changes in the regional and general economy could also reduce our growth rate, impair our ability to collect loans and generally have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Hurricanes or Other Adverse Weather Events Could Negatively Affect the Economy in Our Florida Market Area or Cause Disruptions to Our Branch Office Locations, Which Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business or Results of Operations. A significant portion of our operations are conducted in the State of Florida, a geographic region with coastal areas that are susceptible to hurricanes and tropical storms. Such weather events can disrupt our operations, result in damage to our branch office locations and negatively affect the local economy in which we operate. We cannot predict whether or to what extent damage caused by future hurricanes or tropical storms will affect our operations or the economy in our market area, but such weather events could result in fewer loan originations and greater delinquencies, foreclosures or loan losses. These and other negative effects of future hurricanes or tropical storms may adversely affect our business or results of operations. Strong Competition Within Our Market Areas May Limit Our Growth and Profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market areas, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, money market funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Some of our competitors have greater name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business, and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market areas. For additional information see “Business—Third Federal Savings and Loan Association of Cleveland—Competition.” If Our Allowance for Loan Losses is Not Sufficient to Cover Actual Loan Losses, Our Earnings Could Decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. Our allowance for loan losses was $25.1 million, or 0.31% of total loans and 22% of non-performing loans at September 30, 2007, each of which is lower than the average for our peer group of financial institutions. Material additions to our allowance could materially decrease our net income. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 35 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 