D. Risk factors. The following matters and other additional risks not presently known to us or that we deem immaterial, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations or prospects, financial or otherwise. Reference to this cautionary statement in the context of a forward-looking statement or statements shall be deemed to be a statement that any one or more of the following factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those in such forward-looking statement or statements. (a) Risks Associated with Our Business Risks Related to Our Business An increase in the prices of raw materials will lead to increased costs and may adversely affect our profit margins if we are unable to pass on such increases in costs to our customers The total cost of raw materials made up approximately 77.6%, 80.9% and 76.0% respectively, of our cost of goods sold in 2005, 2006 and 2007. The main raw materials used in our production of BOPET film are polyethylene terephthalate (or PET) resin and additives, which respectively made up approximately 78.5% and 21.5% of our total cost of raw materials in the past three years. The PET resin is currently used as a raw material in China’s textile industry, and the market prices of PET resin may fluctuate due to changes in supply and demand conditions in that industry. Any sudden shortage of supply, or significant increase in demand, of PET resin and additives may result in higher market prices and thereby increase our cost of sales. The prices of PET resin and additives are, to a certain extent, affected by the price movement of crude oil. International market prices for crude oil have been subject to wide swings in the last three years, due in large part to the unstable situation in Middle East and pricing increase agreed to among oil producing and consuming countries. However, the price of our major raw materials, PET resin, which are widely used in the textile industry in China, has not increased in line with the rising crude oil prices due to the dampened demand for PET resin from textile manufacturers in China from 2006 as a result of the anti-dumping policy exerted by the US and European countries. There has been some increase in the cost of our raw materials as a result of significant crude oil price spikes, and our ability to hedge against these fluctuations by either entering into long-term supply contracts or otherwise offsetting our exposure to these commodity price variations has been extremely limited. We currently have no hedging transactions in place with respect to PET resin or any other petroleum product. If there is a significant increase in the cost of our raw materials and we are unable to pass on such increase to our customers on a timely basis or at all, our profit margins and results of operations will be adversely affected. Entry of new BOPET producers in the PRC may increase the supply of, and decrease the prices of, BOPET film in the industry, and hence lead to a decline in our profit margins We believe that we are currently one of the few producers of BOPET film in the PRC with research and development capability and our past financial performance is attributable to our market position in the industry. Over time, there may be new entrants into our industry, whether as a result of increased access to the production technology of BOPET film or otherwise. Accordingly, we may experience increased competition and the entry of new BOPET producers will also lead to an increase in the industry supply of BOPET film resulting in more competitive pricing. We believe that our major competitors in the BOPET manufacturing market in the PRC are Dupont Hongji Films Foshan Co., Ltd, and Yihua Toray Polyester Film Co., Ltd. We may have to price our products in response to competitive market conditions and this may lead to a decline in our profit margins. In the event that we are unable to compete successfully or retain effective control over the pricing of our products, our profit margins will decrease and, our revenues and net income may also decrease. In addition, China has gradually lowered import tariffs and relaxed foreign investment restrictions after its entry into the World Trade Organization in December 2001. This can lead to increased competition from foreign companies in our industry, some of which are significantly larger and financially stronger than us. If we fail to compete effectively with these companies in the future, our current business and future growth potential would be adversely affected. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from the flexible packaging industry in the PRC A significant portion of our revenue is currently derived from the production and sale of BOPET film. Our BOPET film is largely used for the flexible packaging industry, such as relating to the processed food, pharmaceutical products, cosmetics, tobacco and alcohol. The demand for our BOPET film is therefore indirectly affected by the demand for flexible packaging. 7 Any decrease in the demand for our BOPET film will significantly affect our financial performance. Although demand for our BOPET film for packaging of processed food, pharmaceutical products, cosmetics, tobacco and alcohol has gradually been increasing, any significant fall in the consumption of the above-mentioned usages, could result in a decline in the sales of our products and adversely impact our financial condition, business and operation. We rely on key managerial and technical personnel and failure to attract or retain such personnel may compromise our ability to develop new products and to effectively carry on our research and development and other efforts Our success to date has been largely attributable to the contributions of key management and experienced personnel, particularly Xiaoan He, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Bin Sun, our President, Xiaoming Wang, our Vice President for Production, and Xiuyong Zhang, our Vice President for Finance. We have entered into service agreements with these individuals. The loss of the services of Messrs. He, Sun, Wang, or Zhang, might impede the achievements of our development objectives and might damage the close business relationship we currently enjoy with some of our larger customers. Our continued success is dependent, to a large extent, on our ability to attract or retain the services of these key personnel. Except for Mr. He, we do not currently maintain any other key man insurance for our directors or officers. Dr. Wenxun Sun, vice director of our R&D department, has been responsible for our R&D department since 2007. Dr. Sun has experience in the BOPET film industry for over ten years and has been working in our R&D department for the past seven years. In January 2008, we appointed Mr. Hanyong Lee as a vice president for Research & Development. If they didn’t effectively lead the R&D team to research and develop new products and facilitate the marketing process, or the Company is unable to receive their services continuously, or the Company is unable to recruit outstanding R&D personnel as a replacement, this may have adverse affect on our ability and progress on new products R&D, and may adversely affect our business results and market competitive capability. Marketability of any of our new products is uncertain and low acceptance levels of any of our new products will adversely affect our revenue and profitability The development of our products is based upon a complex technology, and requires significant time and expertise in order to meet industry standards and customers’ specifications. Although we have developed products that meet customers’ requirements in the past, there is no assurance that any of our research and development efforts will necessarily lead to any new or enhanced products or generate sufficient market share to justify commercialization. We must continually improve our current products and develop and introduce new or enhanced products that address the requirements of our customers and are competitive in terms of functionality, performance, quality and price in order to maintain and increase our market share. If our new products are unable to gain market acceptance, we would be forced to write-off the related inventory and would not be able to generate future revenue from our investment in research and development. In such event, we would be unable to increase our market share and achieve and sustain profitability. Our failure to further refine our technology and develop and introduce new products attractive to the market could cause our products to become uncompetitive or obsolete, which could reduce our market share and cause our sales to decline. The circumstances under which we acquired ownership of our main productive assets may jeopardize our ability to continue as an operating business Substantially all of our operating assets were acquired through two auction proceedings under relevant PRC law. We acquired the Brückner production line in 2003 as a result of a foreclosure proceeding enforcing an effective court judgment and the DMT production in 2004 as a result of a commercial auction from a consigner who obtained such assets through a bankruptcy proceeding. In the opinion of our PRC counsel, Concord & Partners, these proceedings are both valid under Chinese auction and bankruptcy law based on certain factual assumptions. Our PRC counsel’s opinion solely relates to the legal procedure of the auctions and is based upon certain factual assumptions, written representations of the Company and written reports of the auction company and other related parties. There can be no assurance that relevant authorities or creditors of the predecessor owner of these assets will not challenge the effectiveness of these asset transfers based upon the facts and circumstances of these transfers, despite the existence of independent appraisals, and other facts and circumstances of the auctions that cannot be verified by our PRC counsel. Taking into consideration the facts known by our PRC counsel related to the auction of the Brückner production line and the significant difference in the price paid for the DMT production line at the two bankruptcy auctions involved in our purchase of that asset and, assuming the representations and reports received by our PRC counsel are true and correct in all material respects, our PRC counsel is of the opinion that the auctions of the Brückner and DMT production lines were valid under PRC law and the possibility of the creditors of Shandong Neo-Luck successfully exercising recourse or claiming repayment with respect to our assets purchased in the bankruptcy proceeding should be remote. However, should any such challenge be brought in China (or elsewhere) and prevail, we may incur substantial liabilities and be required to pay substantial damages as a result of acquiring these assets. Although we believe any such challenge is unlikely to lead to the forfeiture of the related assets, it could materially affect our ability to continue operations. 8 On June 25, 2007, we announced the investigation of three controlling shareholders, Mr. Jun Yin, Mr. Duo Wang, and Mr. Tongju Zhou, and on September 28, 2007, the three shareholders have been arrested, relating to the suspicion of the Crime of Irregularities for Favoritism and to sell state-owned assets at low prices. Mr. Jun Yin is a 52.9% shareholder of us, and Mr. Tongju Zhou, a director of Fuwei Films, together with Mr. Duo Wang, indirectly own 12.5% of us. We have, in the past, experienced and may, from time to time, experience negative working capital and we face risks associated with debt financing (including exposure to variation in interest rates) Our total outstanding indebtedness, entirely comprising of short-term loans, as at December 31, 2007 was RMB 188.0 million (US$25.8 million). We have pledged property, plant and equipment and lease prepayments of RMB152.6 million as security for RMB 152.6 million of outstanding indebtedness. Subsequently, we renegotiated substantially all of our outstanding indebtedness resulting in approximately RMB 148.6 million of secured indebtedness of the total outstanding. In the event that we default on all or any portion of this indebtedness, our lenders could foreclose on our assets. In the event that our assets are foreclosed upon, we will not be able to continue to operate our business. Our obligations under our existing loans have been mainly met through the cash flow from our operations and our financing activities. We are subject to risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk of significant increases in interest rates and the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payment of principal and interest. In the past, cash flow from operations has been sufficient to meet payment obligations and/or we have been able to extend our borrowings. There is however, no assurance that we will be able to continue to do so in the future. We may also underestimate our capital requirements and other expenditures or overestimate our future cash flows. In such event, we may consider additional bank loans, issuing bonds, or other forms of financing to satisfy our capital requirements. If any of the aforesaid events occur and we are unable for any reason to raise additional capital, debt or other financing to meet our working capital requirements, our business, operating results, liquidity and financial position will be adversely affected. We may lose our competitive advantage and our operations may suffer if we fail to prevent the loss or misappropriation of, or disputes over, our intellectual property We have applied for patents in respect of some of our processes, technologies and systems used in our business and by the end of 2007, we have received four patents from, and have three patent applications pending with, the PRC authorities. We may not be able to successfully obtain the approvals of the PRC authorities for the pending patent applications. Furthermore, third parties may assert claims to our proprietary processes, technologies and systems. These proprietary processes, technologies and systems are important to our business as they allow us to maintain our competitive edge over our competitors. Our ability to compete in our markets and to achieve future revenue growth will depend, in significant part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and operate without infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others. The legal regime in China for the protection of intellectual property rights is still at its early stage of development. Intellectual property protection became a national effort in China in 1979 when China adopted its first statute on the protection of trademarks. Since then, China has adopted its Patent Law, Trademark Law and Copyright Law and promulgated related regulations such as Regulation on Computer Software Protection, Regulation on the Protection of Layout Designs of Integrated Circuits and Regulation on Internet Domain Names. China has also acceded to various international treaties and conventions in this area, such as the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property, Patent Cooperation Treaty, Madrid Agreement and its Protocol Concerning the International Registration of Marks. In addition, when China became a party to the World Trade Organization in 2001, China amended many of its laws and regulations to comply with the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights. Despite many laws and regulations promulgated and other efforts made by China over the years with a view to tightening up its regulation and protection of intellectual property rights, private parties may not enjoy intellectual property rights in China to the same extent as they would in many Western countries, including the United States, and enforcement of such laws and regulations in China have not achieved the levels reached in those countries. Both the administrative agencies and the court system in China are not well-equipped to deal with violations or handle the nuances and complexities between compliant technological innovation and non-compliant infringement. 9 We rely on trade secrets and registered patents and trademarks to protect our intellectual property. We have also entered into confidentiality agreements with our management and employees relating to our confidential proprietary information. However, the protection of our intellectual properties may be compromised as a result of: · departure of any of our management members or employees in possession of our confidential proprietary information; · breach by such departing management member or employee of his or her confidentiality and non-disclosure undertaking to us; · expiration of the protection period of our registered patents or trademarks; · infringement by others of our proprietary technology and intellectual property rights; or · refusal by relevant regulatory authorities to approve our patent or trademark applications. Any of these events or occurrences may reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have developed, causing us to lose sales or otherwise harm our business. There is no assurance that the measures that we have put into place to protect our intellectual property rights will be sufficient. As the number of patents, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property rights in our industry increases, and as the coverage of these rights and the functionality of the products in the market further overlap, we believe that business entities in our industry may face more frequent infringement claims. Litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights could result in substantial costs and may not be successful. If we are not able to successfully defend our intellectual property rights, we might lose rights to technology that we need to conduct and develop our business. This may seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition, and enable our competitors to use our intellectual property to compete against us. Furthermore, if third parties claim that our products infringe their patents or other intellectual property rights, we might be required to devote substantial resources to defending against such claims. If we are unsuccessful in defending against such infringement claims, we may be required to pay damages, modify our products or suspend the production and sale of such products. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to modify our products on commercially reasonable terms. We may incur capital expenditures in the future in connection with our growth plans and therefore may require additional financing To expand our business, we will need to increase our production capacities which will require substantial capital expenditures. Such expenditures are likely to be incurred in advance of any increase in sales. We cannot assure you that our revenue will increase after such capital expenditures are incurred as this will depend on, among other factors, our ability to maintain or achieve high capacity utilization rates. Any failure to increase our revenue after incurring capital expenditures to expand production capacity will reduce our profitability. In addition, we may need to obtain additional debt or equity financing to fund our capital expenditures. Additional equity financing may result in dilution to our shareholders. Additional debt financing may be required which, if obtained, may: · limit our ability to pay dividends or require us to seek consents for the payment of dividends; · increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · limit our ability to pursue our growth plan; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations as payment for our debt, thereby reducing availability of our cash flow to fund capital expenditures, working capital and other general corporate purposes; and/or · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the additional financing on terms that are acceptable to us, if at all. A disruption in the supply of utilities, fire or other calamity at our manufacturing plant would disrupt production of our products and adversely affect our sales Our BOPET films are manufactured solely at our production facility located in Weifang City in the PRC. While we have not in the past experienced any calamities which disrupted production, any disruption in the supply of utilities, in particular, electricity or power supply or any outbreak of fire, flood or other calamity resulting in significant damage at our facilities would severely affect our production of BOPET film and as a result, we could incur substantial liabilities that could reduce or eliminate the funds available for product development, or result in a loss of equipment and properties. 10 While we maintain insurance policies covering losses in respect of damage to our properties, machinery and inventories of raw materials and products, we cannot assure you that our insurance would be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses. We have limited experience in operating outside mainland China, and failure to achieve our overseas expansion strategy may have an adverse effect on our business growth in the future Our future growth depends, to a considerable extent, on our ability to develop both the domestic and overseas markets. We are currently exploring new business opportunities outside mainland China for our BOPET film products. We have a limited number of customers outside China, mainly in Korea, the United States and Europe, etc. However, we have limited experience in operating outside mainland China, have limited experience with foreign regulatory environments and market practices, and cannot guarantee that we will be able to penetrate any overseas market. In connection with our initial efforts to expand overseas, we have encountered many obstacles, including cultural and linguistic differences, difficulties in keeping abreast of market, business and technical developments in foreign jurisdictions, and political and social disturbances. Failure in the development of overseas markets may have an adverse effect on our business growth in the future. We have encountered anti-dumping investigations in Korea and US. If we do not get approvals of the comparatively low anti-dumping tax rate in the final anti-dumping arbitration judgment, our overseas expansion strategy in our future business growth may be adversely affected. The Korean Trading Committee has rendered a preparatory decision on dumping practices and their industrial injuries on March 26, 2008. The final judgment will be issued within 75 days after the initial judgment announced. At the end of March, we received the initial anti-dumping judgment from Korean Trading Committee. Fuwei has been provided with a comparatively low anti-dumping rate of 6.13%, which is far lower than that of the other Companies that have been investigated. US Department of Commerce has also officially initiated an anti-dumping case on October 18, 2007 to investigate the PET film imported from China. During the investigation, we have put forward application for the separate tax rate - which is the weighted-average tax rate on the companies that have been chosen to response to the claim compulsively, and submitted the questionnaire. On December 26, 2007, US Department of Commerce has announced sample result and Chinese enterprise - Dupont Hongji and Jiangsu Jinzhongda has elected as enterprise forcefully defend against the case. Later, Jiangsu Jinzhongda has withdrawal from such investigation. By now, Dupont Hongji is the only enterprise forcefully defends against the case. It is anticipated by US Department of Commerce that the initial judgment will be announced on April 25, 2008. According to documents we submitted, we expect that we could succeed in getting the separate tax rate if there is no very special condition occurred. However, if US Department of Commerce will not continue the sample investigation, the enterprises that ask for separate tax rate - like Fuwei Films - will get the same tax rate as Dupont Hongji. Our primary source of funds of dividends and other distributions from our operating subsidiary in China is subject to various legal and contractual restrictions and uncertainties, and our ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to our shareholders are negatively affected by those restrictions and uncertainties We are a holding company established in the Cayman Islands and conduct our core business operations through our principal operating subsidiary, Shandong Fuwei, in China. As a result, our profits available for distribution to our shareholders are dependent on the profits available for distribution from Shandong Fuwei. If Shandong Fuwei incurs debt on its own behalf, the debt instruments may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions, which in turn would limit our ability to pay dividends on our ordinary shares. Under the current PRC laws, because we are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, our PRC subsidiary, Shandong Fuwei, is regarded as a wholly foreign-owned enterprise in China. Although dividends paid by foreign invested enterprises, such as wholly foreign-owned enterprises and Sino-foreign joint ventures, are not subject to any PRC corporate withholding tax, the PRC laws permit payment of dividends only out of net income as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Determination of net income under PRC accounting standards and regulations may differ from determination under U.S. GAAP in significant respects, such as the use of different principles for recognition of revenues and expenses. In addition, distribution of additional equity interests by our PRC subsidiary, Shandong Fuwei, to us (which is credited as fully paid through capitalizing its undistributed profits) requires additional approval of the PRC government due to an increase in our registered capital and total investment in Shandong Fuwei. Under the PRC laws, Shandong Fuwei, a wholly foreign-owned enterprise, is required to set aside a portion of its net income each year to fund designated statutory reserve funds. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. As a result, our primary internal source of funds of dividend payments from Shandong Fuwei is subject to these and other legal and contractual restrictions and uncertainties, which in turn may limit or impair our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Moreover, any transfer of funds from us to Shandong Fuwei, either as a shareholder loan or as an increase in registered capital, is subject to registration with or approval by PRC governmental authorities. These limitations on the flow of funds between us and Shandong Fuwei could restrict our ability to act in response to changing market conditions. 11 Investor confidence and the market price of our shares may be adversely impacted if we or our independent registered public accountants are unable to issue an unqualified opinion on the adequacy of our internal controls over our financial reporting beginning as of December 31, 2008, as required by Section 404 of the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 As a public Company, we are required by section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 to include a report of management on the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting that contains our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 and an auditor’s attestation report on our internal control over financial reporting in our annual report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2008. Our management may not conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective. Moreover, even if our management does conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, if our independent registered public accountants are not satisfied with our internal control structure and procedures, the level at which our internal controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if the independent registered public accountants interpret the requirements, rules or regulations differently from us, they may not concur with our management’s assessment or may not issue a report that is unqualified. Any of these possible outcomes could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could lead to a decline in the market price of our shares. In 2007, we have implemented certain accounting policies and procedures relating to financial reporting under US GAAP; we are in the process of training of our financial personnel with US GAAP knowledge and experience as required to implement the relevant policies and procedures; and we have implemented our policies and procedures by the end of 2007. Furthermore, on April 25 2007, we have appointed Tullius Taylor Sartain & Sartain (“TTS&S”, a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and based in Tulsa City, Oklahoma) as our consultant for purposes of Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 404 compliance, which we expect to improve our internal control over financial reporting. In 2007, with TTS&S’s assistance, we have evaluated, tested and will report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting during the year ending December 31, 2007. We have documented, tested, and evaluated our internal controls as required. Despite of this, some deficiencies were identified during our evaluation. During our year end audit it is possible that our external auditor will identify significant adjustments to our financial statements. If this happens, we will have to re-consider the controls that failed to prevent or detect the misstatements identified by the auditor. It is possible that we will identify a significant deficiency or material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting at that time. Also, there are certain controls that will not occur until close to the time of our annual filing. We have tested these controls during our quarterly filings and do not anticipate any deficiencies to be identified in these processes. However, it is possible that significant deficiencies or material weaknesses may be identified when we test certain financial reporting controls related to our annual filing. Risks Relating to Business Operations in China Changes in China’s political and economic policies and conditions could cause a substantial decline in the demand for our products and services Historically, we derived substantially all of our revenues from a single market, mainland China. We anticipate that mainland China will continue to be our primary production and sales base in the near future and currently substantially all of our assets are located in China and all of our services are performed in China. In 2005, 2006 and 2007, sales to our customers in the PRC accounted for approximately 88%, 79% and 75.5% of our total revenue, respectively. Accordingly, any significant slowdown in the PRC economy or decline in demand for our products from our customers in the PRC will have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of our operations. Furthermore, any unfavorable changes in the social and political conditions of the PRC may also adversely affect our business and operations. 12 Since the adoption of the “open door policy” in 1978 and the “socialist market economy” in 1993, the PRC government has been reforming and is expected to continue to reform its economic and political systems. Any changes in the political and economic policy of the PRC government may lead to changes in the laws and regulations or the interpretation of the same, as well as changes in the foreign exchange regulations, taxation and import and export restrictions, which may in turn adversely affect our financial performance. While the current policy of the PRC government seems to be one of imposing economic reform policies to encourage foreign investments and greater economic decentralization, there is no assurance that such a policy will continue to prevail in the future. We cannot make any assurances that our operations would not be adversely affected should there be any policy changes. Since 2007, the Chinese government has adjusted its macroeconomic-policies, and has increased bank loan interest rates and bank deposit reserve rates, to control the excess rapid investment growth, which results in the increase on financial costs, and creates a decrease in loan availability from bank. Furthermore, these changes may slow down the growth of domestic market reliance on BOPET film, and increase intense market competition, and bring adverse effect on the corporate financial result. The discontinuation of any preferential tax treatments or other incentives currently available to us in the PRC could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations Our subsidiary Shandong Fuwei was converted into a wholly foreign owned enterprise in January 2005 and enjoys certain special or preferential tax treatments regarding enterprise income tax in accordance with the “Income Tax Law of the PRC for Enterprises with Foreign Investment and Foreign Enterprises.” Accordingly, it is entitled to tax concessions whereby the profit for the first two financial years beginning with the first profit-making year (after setting off tax losses carried forward from prior years) is exempt from income tax in the PRC and the profit for each of the subsequent three financial years is taxed at 50% of the prevailing tax rates set by the relevant tax authorities. In addition, as a “High Technology Enterprise,” Shandong Fuwei currently enjoys enterprise income tax at an incentive rate of 15%. However, we cannot assure you that Shandong Fuwei will not lose its “High Technology Enterprise” status, and even if Shandong Fuwei successfully maintains its “High Technology Enterprise” status, its preferential tax treatment may be discontinued by the tax authorities at their discretion or pursuant to any future changes in PRC tax laws, rules and regulations. If that were to occur, Shandong Fuwei would be subject to a 25% standard enterprise income tax rate under the current tax laws from January 1, 2008 under the new tax law described below, which would significantly increase our effective tax rate and materially adversely affect our operating results. On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress of the PRC passed the Enterprise Income Tax Law of the People’s Republic of China, which law will take effect as of January 1, 2008. In accordance with the new law, a unified enterprise income tax rate of 25% and unified tax deduction standards will be applied equally to both domestic-invested enterprises and foreign-invested enterprises such as Shandong Fuwei. Enterprises established prior to March 16, 2007, eligible for preferential tax treatment in accordance with the currently prevailing tax laws and administrative regulations shall, under the regulations of the State Council, gradually become subject to the new tax rate over a five-year transition period starting from the date of effectiveness of the new law. We expect details of the transitional arrangement for the five-year period from January 1, 2008 to December 31, 2012 applicable to enterprises approved for establishment prior to March 16, 2007, such as Shandong Fuwei, to be set out in more detailed implementing rules to be adopted in the future. In addition, certain qualifying “High Technology Enterprises” may still benefit from a preferential tax rate of 15% under the new tax law if they meet the definition of “Government Developing High Technology Enterprise” to be set forth in the more detailed implementing rules when they are adopted. As a result, if Shandong Fuwei qualifies as a “Government Developing High Technology Enterprise”, it will continue to benefit from a preferential tax rate of 15%. Otherwise, Shandong Fuwei’s applicable tax rate may increase from its existing rate of 15% to the unified tax rate of 25% under the new tax law and in accordance with more detailed implementing rules to be adopted in the future. Any increase in our effective tax rate as a result of the above may adversely affect our operating results. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations in the PRC We are subject to environmental laws and regulations in the PRC. Any failure by us to comply fully with such laws and regulations will result in us being subject to penalties and fines or being required to pay damages. Although we believe we are currently in compliance with the environmental regulations in all material respects, any change in the regulations may require us to acquire equipment or incur additional capital expenditure or costs in order to comply with such regulations. Our profits will be adversely affected if we are unable to pass on such additional costs to our customers. 13 Changes in foreign exchange regulation in China may affect our ability to pay dividends in foreign currencies We currently receive all of our operating revenues in Renminbi. Currently, Renminbi is not a freely convertible currency and the restrictions on currency exchanges in China may limit our ability to use revenues generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside China or to make dividends or other payments in U.S. dollars. The PRC government strictly regulates conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies. Over the years, the PRC government has significantly reduced its control over routine foreign exchange transactions under current accounts, including trade- and service-related foreign exchange transactions, foreign debt service and payment of dividends. In accordance with the existing foreign exchange regulations in China, our PRC subsidiary, Shandong Fuwei, is able to pay dividends in foreign currencies, without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. The PRC government may, however, at its discretion, restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions and prohibit us from converting our Renminbi-denominated earnings into foreign currencies. If this occurs, our PRC subsidiary may not be able to pay us dividends in foreign currency without prior approval from SAFE. In addition, conversion of Renminbi for most capital account items, including direct investments, is still subject to government approval in China and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. This restriction may limit our ability to invest earnings of Shandong Fuwei. Fluctuation in the value of Renminbi could adversely affect the value of, and dividends payable on, our shares in foreign currency terms The value of Renminbi is subject to changes in PRC government policies and depends to a large extent on China’s domestic and international economic, financial and political developments, as well as the currency’s supply and demand in the local market. From 1994, the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including the U.S. dollar, was based on exchange rates set and published daily by the People’s Bank of China, the PRC central bank, based on the previous day’s interbank foreign exchange market rates in China and exchange rates on the world financial markets. The official exchange rate for the conversion of Renminbi into U.S. dollars remained stable until Renminbi was revalued in July 2005 and allowed to fluctuate by reference to a basket of foreign currencies, including the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a band against a basket of foreign currencies. This change in policy resulted initially in an approximately 2.0% appreciation in the value of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt a substantially more liberalized currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation in the value of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. Further revaluations of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar may also occur in the future. Since our income and profits are denominated in Renminbi, any appreciation of Renminbi would increase the value of, and any dividends payable on, our shares in foreign currency terms. Conversely, any depreciation of Renminbi would decrease the value of, and any dividends payable on, our shares in foreign currency terms. The uncertain legal environment in China could limit the legal protections available to you The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike the common law system, the civil law system is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In the late 1970s, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations to provide general guidance on economic and business practices in China and to regulate foreign investment. Our PRC subsidiary, Shandong Fuwei, is a wholly foreign-owned enterprise and is subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China in general and laws and regulations applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises in particular. China has made significant progress in the promulgation of laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. However, the promulgation of new laws, changes of existing laws and abrogation of local regulations by national laws may have a negative impact on our business and prospects. In addition, as these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent and because of the limited volume of published cases and their non-binding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws, regulations and legal requirements involve significant uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to foreign investors, including you. For example, it is not clear if a PRC court would enforce in China a foreign court decision brought by you against us in shareholders’ derivative actions. Moreover, the enforceability of contracts in China, especially with the government, is relatively uncertain. If counterparties repudiated our contracts or defaulted on their obligations, we might not have adequate remedies. Such uncertainties or inability to enforce our contracts could materially and adversely affect our revenues and earnings. 14 Outbreak of SARS, Avian Influenza or other epidemics could materially and adversely affect our overall operations and results of operations From March to July 2003, mainland China, Hong Kong, Singapore, Taiwan and some other areas in Asia experienced an outbreak of a new and contagious form of atypical pneumonia known as severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. A recurrent outbreak, or an outbreak of a similarly contagious disease, such as the H5N1 avian flu, could potentially disrupt our operations to the extent that any one of our employees is suspected of having the infection or that any of our facilities is identified as a possible source of spreading the virus or disease. We may be required to quarantine employees who are suspected of having an infection. We may also be required to disinfect our facilities and therefore suffer a suspension of production of indefinite duration. Any quarantine or suspension of production at any of our facilities will adversely affect our overall operations. In the recent two years, infectious disease like Avian Influenza has occurred in high frequency worldwide, which would have adverse effect on the consumption on fowl packaged foods, and have influence on our products sales. In addition, any such outbreak will likely restrict the level of economic activities in the affected areas, which could lead to a substantial decrease in our revenues accompanied by an increase in our costs, resulting in lower levels of net income. Regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may limit our ability to acquire PRC companies and adversely affect our business and prospects In October 2005, SAFE issued a circular concerning foreign exchange regulations on investments by PRC residents in China through special purpose companies incorporated overseas. The circular states that, if PRC residents use assets or equity interests in their domestic entities as capital contribution to establish offshore companies or inject assets or equity interests of their PRC entities into offshore companies to raise capital overseas, such PRC residents must register with local SAFE branches with respect to their overseas investments in offshore companies and must also file amendments to their registrations if their offshore companies experience material events, such as changes in share capital, share transfer, mergers and acquisitions, spin-off transactions or use of assets in China to guarantee offshore obligations. Our existing shareholders have completed the relevant SAFE registration procedures as currently required. As it is uncertain how SAFE will interpret or implement its circular, we cannot predict how this circular and other SAFE circulars will affect our business operations or future strategies. For example, we may be subject to a more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign currency-denominated borrowings, which may adversely affect our ability to provide funds to the Company to pay dividends on our ordinary shares. Item 