ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other information presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. RISKS RELATING TO THE INDUSTRIES AND BUSINESSES OF THE COMPANY The pulp, paper and wood product industries are highly cyclical. Fluctuations in the prices of and the demand for the Company’s products could result in lower sales volumes and smaller profit margins. The pulp, paper and wood product industries are highly cyclical. Historically, economic and market shifts, fluctuations in capacity and changes in foreign currency exchange rates have created cyclical changes in prices, sales volume and margins for the Company’s products. The length and magnitude of industry cycles have varied over time and by product, but generally reflect changes in macroeconomic conditions and levels of industry capacity. Most of the Company’s paper products are commodities that are widely available from other producers. Even the Company’s non-commodity products, such as value-added papers, are susceptible to commodity dynamics. Because commodity products have few distinguishing qualities from producer to producer, competition for these products is based primarily on price, which is determined by supply relative to demand. The overall levels of demand for the products the Company manufactures and distributes, and consequently its sales and profitability, reflect fluctuations in levels of end-user demand, which depend in part on general macroeconomic conditions in North America and worldwide, as well as competition from electronic substitution. See—“Conditions in the global capital and credit markets, and the economy generally, can adversely affect the Company business, results of operations and financial position” and “Some of the Company’s products are vulnerable to long-term declines in demand due to competing technologies or materials.” For example, demand for cut-size office paper may fluctuate with levels of white-collar employment. Demand for many such products was negatively impacted by the global economic downturn in 2009. Industry supply of pulp, paper and wood products is also subject to fluctuation, as changing industry conditions can influence producers to idle or permanently close individual machines or entire mills. Such closures can result in significant cash and/or non-cash charges. In addition, to avoid substantial cash costs in connection with idling or closing a mill, some producers will choose to continue to operate at a loss, sometimes even a cash loss, which could prolong weak pricing environments due to oversupply. Oversupply can also result from producers introducing new capacity in response to favorable short-term pricing trends. Industry supply of pulp, paper and wood products is also influenced by overseas production capacity, which has grown in recent years and is expected to continue to grow. As a result, prices for all of the Company’s products are driven by many factors outside of its control, and the Company has little influence over the timing and extent of price changes, which are often volatile. Because market conditions beyond the Company’s control determine the prices for its commodity products, the price for any one or more of these products may fall below its cash production costs, requiring the Company to either incur cash losses on product sales or cease production at one or more of its manufacturing facilities. The Company continuously evaluates potential adjustments to its production capacity, which may include additional closures of machines or entire mills, and the Company could recognize significant cash and/or non-cash charges relating to any such closures in future periods. See Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation, under “Restructuring activities.” Therefore, the Company’s 20 profitability with respect to these products depends on managing its cost structure, particularly wood fiber, chemical and energy costs, which represent the largest components of its operating costs and can fluctuate based upon factors beyond its control, as described below. If the prices of or demand for its products decline, or if its wood fiber, chemical or energy costs increase, or both, its sales and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. Conditions in the global capital and credit markets, and the economy generally, can adversely affect the Company business, results of operations and financial position. A significant or prolonged downturn in general economic condition may affect the Company’s sales and profitability. The Company has exposure to counterparties with which we routinely execute transactions. Such counterparties include commercial banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions, some of which may be exposed to bankruptcy or liquidity risks. While the Company has not realized any significant losses to date, a bankruptcy or illiquidity event by one of its significant counterparties may materially and adversely affect the Company access to capital, future business and results of operations. Some of the Company’s products are vulnerable to long-term declines in demand due to competing technologies or materials. The Company’s business competes with electronic transmission and document storage alternatives, as well as with paper grades it does not produce, such as uncoated groundwood. As a result of such competition, the Company has experienced decreased demand for some of its existing pulp and paper products. As the use of these alternatives grows, demand for pulp and paper products is likely to further decline. Moreover, demand for some of the Company’s wood products may decline if customers purchase alternative products. The Company faces intense competition in its markets, and the failure to compete effectively would have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations. The Company competes with both U.S. and Canadian producers and, for many of its product lines, global producers, some of which may have greater financial resources and lower production costs than the Company. The principal basis for competition is selling price. The Company’s ability to maintain satisfactory margins depends in large part on its ability to control its costs. The Company cannot provide assurance that it will compete effectively and maintain current levels of sales and profitability. If the Company cannot compete effectively, such failure will have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations. The Company’s manufacturing businesses may have difficulty obtaining wood fiber at favorable prices, or at all. Wood fiber is the principal raw material used by the Company, comprising approximately 24% of the total cost of sales during 2009. Wood fiber is a commodity, and prices historically have been cyclical. The primary source for wood fiber is timber. Environmental litigation and regulatory developments, alternative use for energy production and reduction in harvesting related to the housing market, have caused, and may cause in the future, significant reductions in the amount of timber available for commercial harvest in the United States and Canada. In addition, future domestic or foreign legislation and litigation concerning the use of timberlands, the protection of endangered species, the promotion of forest health and the response to and prevention of catastrophic wildfires could also affect timber supplies. Availability of harvested timber may be further limited by adverse weather, fire, insect infestation, disease, ice storms, wind storms, flooding and other natural and man made causes, thereby reducing supply and increasing prices. Wood fiber pricing is subject to regional market influences, and the Company’s cost of wood fiber may increase in particular regions due to market shifts in those regions. Any sustained increase in wood fiber prices would increase the Company’s operating costs, and the Company may be unable to increase prices for its products in response to increased wood fiber costs due to additional factors affecting the demand or supply of these products. 21 The Company currently obtains its wood fiber requirements in part by harvesting timber pursuant to its forest licenses and forest management agreements and in part by purchasing wood fiber from third parties. If the Company’s cutting rights, pursuant to its forest licenses or forest management agreements are reduced, or any third-party supplier of wood fiber stops selling or is unable to sell wood fiber to the Company, its financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. An increase in the cost of the Company’s purchased energy or chemicals would lead to higher manufacturing costs, thereby reducing its margins. The Company’s operations consume substantial amounts of energy such as electricity, natural gas, fuel oil, coal and hog fuel. Energy comprised approximately 8% of the total cost of sales in 2009. Energy prices, particularly for electricity, natural gas and fuel oil, have been volatile in recent years. As a result, fluctuations in energy prices will impact the Company’s manufacturing costs and contribute to earnings volatility. While the Company purchases substantial portions of its energy under supply contracts, most of these contracts are based on market pricing. Other raw materials the Company uses include various chemical compounds, such as precipitated calcium carbonate, sodium chlorate and sodium hydroxide, sulfuric acid, dyes, peroxide, methanol and aluminum sulfate. Purchases of chemicals comprised approximately 12% of the total cost of sales in 2009. The costs of these chemicals have been volatile historically, and they are influenced by capacity utilization, energy prices and other factors beyond the Company’s control. Due to the commodity nature of the Company’s products, the relationship between industry supply and demand for these products, rather than solely changes in the cost of raw materials, will determine the Company’s ability to increase prices. Consequently, the Company may be unable to pass on increases in its operating costs to its customers. Any sustained increase in chemical or energy prices without any corresponding increase in product pricing would reduce the Company’s operating margins and may have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations. The Company could experience disruptions in operations and/or increased labor costs due to labor disputes or restructuring activities. Employees at 39 of the Company’s facilities, a majority of the Company’s 10,000 employees, are represented by unions through collective bargaining agreements, generally on a facility-by-facility basis, which will expire between 2010 and 2015. Currently, 13 collective bargaining agreements are up for renegotiation of which only three are currently under negotiation. The Company may not be able to negotiate acceptable new collective bargaining agreements, which could result in strikes or work stoppages or other labor disputes by affected workers. Renewal of collective bargaining agreements could also result in higher wages or benefits paid to union members. In addition, labor organizing activities could occur at any of the Company’s facilities. Therefore, the Company could experience a disruption of its operations or higher ongoing labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on its business and financial condition. In connection with the Company’s restructuring efforts, the Company has suspended operations at, or closed or announced its intention to close, various facilities and may incur liability with respect to affected employees, which could have a material adverse effect on its business or financial condition. In addition, the Company continues to evaluate potential adjustments to its production capacity, which may include additional closures of machines or entire mills, and the Company could recognize significant cash and/or non-cash charges relating to any such closures in the future. The pulp and paper mill in Prince Albert was closed in the first quarter of 2006 and has not been operated since. In December 2009, we decided to dismantle the Prince Albert facility. In a grievance relating to the closure of the Prince Albert facility, the union is claiming that it is entitled to the accumulated pension benefits 22 during the actual layoff period because, according to the union, a majority of employees still had recall rights during the layoff. Arbitration in this matter was held on February 16 to 18, 2010, and the parties are awaiting the arbitrator’s decision. The Company cannot be certain that it will not incur a liability, which could be in excess of $20 million. The Company relies heavily on a small number of significant customers, including one customer that represented approximately 8% of the Company’s sales in 2009. A loss of any of these significant customers could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. The Company heavily relies on a small number of significant customers. The Company’s largest customer represented approximately 8% of the Company’s sales in 2009. A significant reduction in sales to any of the Company’s key customers, which could be due to factors outside its control, such as purchasing diversification or financial difficulties experienced by these customers, could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. A material disruption at one or more of the Company’s manufacturing facilities could prevent it from meeting customer demand, reduce its sales and/or negatively impact its net income. Any of the Company’s pulp or paper manufacturing facilities, or any of its machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including: • unscheduled maintenance outages; • prolonged power failures; • equipment failure; • chemical spill or release; • explosion of a boiler; • the effect of a drought or reduced rainfall on its water supply; • labor difficulties; • disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including roads, bridges, railroad tracks and tunnels; • adverse weather, fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes or other catastrophes; • terrorism or threats of terrorism; or • other operational problems, including those resulting from the risks described in this section. Events such as those listed above have resulted in operating losses in the past. Future events may cause shutdowns, which may result in additional downtime and/or cause additional damage to the Company’s facilities. Any such downtime or facility damage could prevent the Company from meeting customer demand for its products and/or require it to make unplanned capital expenditures. If one or more of these machines or facilities were to incur significant downtime, it may have a material adverse effect on the Company financial results and financial position. The Company’s indebtedness, which is approximately $1.7 billion as of December 31, 2009, could adversely affect its financial condition and impair its ability to operate its business. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had approximately $1.7 billion of outstanding indebtedness, including $336 million of indebtedness under its senior secured credit facilities, $23 million of capital leases and $1.4 billion of unsecured notes. 23 The Company’s degree of indebtedness could have important consequences to the Company’s financial condition, operating results and business, including the following: • it may limit the Company’s ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; • a substantial portion of the Company’s cash flows from operations will be dedicated to payments on its indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes, including operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; • the debt service requirements of the Company’s indebtedness could make it more difficult for the Company to satisfy its other obligations; • the Company’s borrowings under the senior secured credit facilities are at variable rates of interest, exposing the Company to increased debt service obligations in the event of increased interest rates; • it may limit the Company’s ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place it at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have less debt; and • it may increase the Company’s vulnerability to a downturn in general economic conditions or in its business, and may make the Company unable to carry out capital spending that is important to its growth. In addition, the Company is subject to agreements that require meeting and maintaining certain financial ratios and tests. A significant or prolonged downturn in general business and economic conditions may affect the Company’s ability to comply with these covenants or meet those financial ratios and tests and could require the Company to take action to reduce its debt or to act in a manner contrary to its current business objectives. A breach of any of the senior secured credit facility or long-term note indenture covenants may result in an event of default under those agreements. This may allow the counterparties to those agreements to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If this occurs, the Company may not be able to refinance the indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all, or repay the accelerated indebtedness. The Company’s operations require substantial capital, and it may not have adequate capital resources to provide for all of its capital requirements. The Company’s businesses are capital intensive and require that it regularly incur capital expenditures in order to maintain its equipment, increase its operating efficiency and comply with environmental laws. In 2009, the Company’s total capital expenditures were $106 million (2008—$163 million). If the Company’s available cash resources and cash generated from operations are not sufficient to fund its operating needs and capital expenditures, the Company would have to obtain additional funds from borrowings or other available sources or reduce or delay its capital expenditures. The Company may not be able to obtain additional funds on favorable terms, or at all. In addition, the Company’s debt service obligations will reduce its available cash flows. If the Company cannot maintain or upgrade its equipment as it requires or allocate funds to ensure environmental compliance, it could be required to curtail or cease some of its manufacturing operations, or it may become unable to manufacture products that compete effectively in one or more of its product lines. Despite current indebtedness levels, the Company and its subsidiaries may incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with its leverage. The Company and its subsidiaries may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although the senior secured credit facility contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, including secured 24 indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. For example, as of December 31, 2009, the Company had $6 million outstanding as overdraft recorded in Bank indebtedness under the revolving credit facility and had outstanding letters of credit amounting to $53 million under this credit facility, resulting in $691 million of availability for future drawings under this credit facility. Other new borrowings could also be incurred by Domtar Corporation or its subsidiaries. If the Company incurs additional debt, the risks associated with its leverage would increase. The Company’s ability to generate the significant amount of cash needed to pay interest and principal on the Domtar Corporation notes and service its other debt and financial obligations and its ability to refinance all or a portion of its indebtedness or obtain additional financing depends on many factors beyond the Company’s control. The Company has considerable debt service obligations. The Company’s ability to make payments on and refinance its debt, including the Domtar Corporation notes and amounts borrowed under its senior secured credit facility and other financial obligations and to fund its operations will depend on its ability to generate substantial operating cash flow. The Company’s cash flow generation will depend on its future performance, which will be subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond its control. The Company’s business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available to the Company under its senior secured credit facility or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable the Company to service its indebtedness, including the Domtar Corporation notes, and borrowings under its senior secured credit facilities or to fund its other liquidity needs. If the Company cannot service its debt, the Company will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital investments, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing its debt or seeking additional equity capital. Any of these remedies may not be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and may impede the implementation of its business strategy. Furthermore, the senior secured credit facility may restrict the Company from adopting any of these alternatives. Because of these and other factors that may be beyond its control, the Company may be unable to service its indebtedness. The Company is affected by changes in currency exchange rates. The Company manufactures all of its wood products and a significant portion of pulp and paper in Canada. Sales of these products by the Company’s Canadian operations will be invoiced in U.S. dollars or in Canadian dollars linked to U.S. pricing but most of the costs relating to these products will be incurred in Canadian dollars. As a result, any decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the Canadian dollar will reduce the Company’s profitability. Exchange rate fluctuations are beyond the Company’s control. From 2003 to 2009, the Canadian dollar had appreciated over 50% relative to the U.S. dollar. In 2009, when compared to 2008, the Canadian dollar increased in value by approximately 17% relative to the U.S. dollar. The level of the Canadian dollar can have a material adverse effect on the sales and profitability of the Canadian operations. The Company has liabilities with respect to its pension plans and the actual cost of its pension plan obligations could exceed current provisions. As of December 31, 2009, the Company’s defined benefit plans had a surplus of $32 million on certain plans and a deficit of $112 million on others on an ongoing basis. The Company’s future funding obligations for the defined benefit pension plans depend upon changes to the level of benefits provided by the plans, the future performance of assets set aside in trusts for these plans, the level of interest rates used to determine minimum funding levels, actuarial data and experience, and any changes in government laws and regulations. As of December 31, 2009, the Company’s Canadian defined benefit pension plans held assets with a fair value of $1,211 million (CDN$1,267 million), including a fair value of $205 million 25 (CDN$214 million) of asset backed commercial paper (“ABCP”). Most of the ABCP investments were subject to restructuring (under the court order governing the Montreal Accord that was completed in January 2009) while the remainder are in conduits restructured outside the Montreal Accord or subject to litigation between the sponsor and the credit counterparty. At December 31, 2009, the Company determined that the fair value of these ABCP investments was $205 million (CDN$214 million) (2008—$198 million (CDN$242 million)). Possible changes that could have a material effect on the future value of the ABCP include (1) changes in the value of the underlying assets and the related derivatives transaction, (2) developments related to the liquidity of the ABCP market, and (3) a severe and prolonged economic slowdown in North America and the bankruptcy of referenced corporate credits. The Company does not expect any potential short term liquidity issues to affect the pension funds since pension fund obligations are primarily long-term in nature. Losses in pension fund investments, if any, would result in future increased contributions by the Company or its Canadian subsidiaries. Additional contributions to these pension funds would be required to be paid over 5 year or 10 year periods, depending upon the applicable provincial requirement for funding solvency deficits. Losses, if any, would also impact operating results over a longer period of time and immediately increase liabilities and reduce equity. The Company may be required to pay significant lumber export taxes and/or countervailing and antidumping duties. The Company may experience reduced revenues and margins on its softwood lumber business as a result of lumber export taxes and/or countervailing and antidumping duty applications. In April 2001, the Coalition for Fair Lumber Imports (“Coalition”) filed two petitions with the U.S. Department of Commerce (“Department”) and the International Trade Commission (“ITC”) claiming that production of softwood lumber in Canada was being subsidized by Canada and that imports from Canada were being “dumped” into the U.S. market (sold at less than fair value). The Coalition asked that countervailing duty (“CVD”) and antidumping (“AD”) tariffs be imposed on softwood lumber imported from Canada, commencing in 2002. In 2006, the Canadian and U.S. governments reached a final settlement to this long-standing dispute, the Softwood Lumber Agreement (“SLA”). The provisions of the SLA included repayment of approximately 81% of the CVD and AD deposits, imposition of export measures in Canada and measures to address long-term policy reform. Under the SLA, Canadian softwood lumber exporters pay an export tax when the price of lumber is at or below a threshold price. Under present market conditions, the Company’s softwood lumber exports are subject to a 5% export charge plus a market restriction on access managed by a quota system. In February 2009, a tribunal operating under the auspices of the London Court of International Arbitration (“LCIA”) issued its decision on a remedy in the softwood lumber arbitration in which Canada was found to have breached the 2006 SLA between the United States and Canada by failing to calculate quotas properly during the first six months of 2007. The LCIA tribunal determined that, as appropriate adjustment to compensate for its breach, Canada must collect an additional 10% ad valorem export charge on softwood lumber shipments from four Canadian provinces (Ontario, Quebec, Manitoba and Saskatchewan) until $55 million has been collected. Starting in April 2009, the United States imposed tariffs on softwood lumber from four Canadian provinces due to Canada’s failure to comply with the SLA. On September 26, 2009, the tribunal ordered Canada to impose a 10% ad valorem export charge on softwood lumber exports to the United States from the four provinces. Canada has indicated its intention to comply with this ruling. Once Canada has imposed a 10% export tax, the United States is expected to cease collecting its 10% import duty, with the result that the affected exports from Canada will continue to be subject to a 10% charge, as has been in effect since April 2009. The Company experienced and may continue to experience reduced revenues and margins in the softwood lumber business as a result of the application of the SLA and the potential imposition of CVD and AD tariffs. The SLA, or the potential imposition of CVD and AD tariffs, could have a material adverse effect on the 26 Company’s business, financial results and financial condition, including, but not limited to, facility closures or impairment of assets. The Company could incur substantial costs as a result of compliance with, violations of or liabilities under applicable environmental laws and regulations. It could also incur costs as a result of asbestos-related personal injury litigation. The Company is subject, in both the United States and Canada, to a wide range of general and industry-specific laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and natural resources, including those governing air emissions, greenhouse gases and climate change, wastewater discharges, harvesting, silvicultural activities, the storage, management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, landfill operation and closure obligations, forestry operations and endangered species habitat, and health and safety matters. In particular, the pulp and paper industry in the United States is subject to the United States Environmental Protection Agency’s (“EPA”) Cluster Rule and was until recently subject to the EPA’s Boiler MACT Rule (the Boiler MACT Rule has been vacated, however, alternative U.S. federal and state regulations are being discussed) that further regulate effluent and air emissions. These laws and regulations require the Company to obtain authorizations from and comply with the requirements of the appropriate governmental authorities, which have considerable discretion over the terms and timing of permits. The Company has incurred, and expects that it will continue to incur, significant capital, operating and other expenditures complying with applicable environmental laws and regulations as a result of remedial obligations. The Company incurred approximately $71 million of operating expenses and $2 million of capital expenditures in connection with environmental compliance and remediation for 2009. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had a provision of $111 million for environmental expenditures, including certain asset retirement obligations (such as for land fill capping and asbestos removal) ($99 million as of December 31, 2008). The pulp and paper mill in Prince Albert was closed in the first quarter of 2006 and has not been operated since. In December 2009, the Company decided to dismantle the Prince Albert facility. The Province of Saskatchewan may require active decommissioning and reclamation at the facility. In the event decommissioning and reclamation is required at the facility, the work is likely to include investigation and remedial action for areas of significant environmental impacts. The Company has a reserve for the estimated required environmental remediation at the site. The Company also could incur substantial costs, such as civil or criminal fines, sanctions and enforcement actions (including orders limiting its operations or requiring corrective measures, installation of pollution control equipment or other remedial actions), cleanup and closure costs, and third-party claims for property damage and personal injury as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws and regulations. The Company’s ongoing efforts to identify potential environmental concerns that may be associated with its past and present properties will lead to future environmental investigations. Those efforts will likely result in the determination of additional environmental costs and liabilities which cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. As the owner and operator of real estate, the Company may be liable under environmental laws for cleanup, closure and other damages resulting from the presence and release of hazardous substances, including asbestos, on or from its properties or operations. The amount and timing of environmental expenditures is difficult to predict, and, in some cases, the Company’s liability may be imposed without regard to contribution or to whether it knew of, or caused, the release of hazardous substances and may exceed forecasted amounts or the value of the property itself. The discovery of additional contamination or the imposition of additional cleanup obligations at the Company’s or third-party sites may result in significant additional costs. Any material liability the Company incurs could adversely impact its financial condition or preclude it from making capital expenditures that would otherwise benefit its business. In addition, the Company may be subject to asbestos-related personal injury litigation arising out of exposure to asbestos on or from its properties or operations, and may incur substantial costs as a result of any defense, settlement, or adverse judgment in such litigation. The Company may not have access to insurance proceeds to cover costs associated with asbestos-related personal injury litigation. 27 Enactment of new environmental laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations, or interpretation thereof, might require significant expenditures. For example, changes in climate change regulation—See Item 3, Legal Proceedings, under the caption “Climate change regulation.” The Company may be unable to generate funds or other sources of liquidity and capital to fund environmental liabilities or expenditures. The Company depends on third parties for transportation services. The Company relies primarily on third parties for transportation of the products it manufactures and/or distributes, as well as delivery of its raw materials. In particular, a significant portion of the goods it manufactures and raw materials it uses are transported by railroad or trucks, which are highly regulated. If any of its third-party transportation providers were to fail to deliver the goods the Company manufactures or distributes in a timely manner, the Company may be unable to sell those products at full value, or at all. Similarly, if any of these providers were to fail to deliver raw materials to the Company in a timely manner, it may be unable to manufacture its products in response to customer demand. In addition, if any of these third parties were to cease operations or cease doing business with the Company, it may be unable to replace them at reasonable cost. Any failure of a third-party transportation provider to deliver raw materials or finished products in a timely manner could harm the Company’s reputation, negatively impact its customer relationships and have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and operating results. The Company’s intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of its products and its brands. The Company relies on patent, trademark, and other intellectual property laws of the United States and other countries to protect its intellectual property rights. However, the Company may be unable to prevent third parties from using its intellectual property without its authorization, which may reduce any competitive advantage it has developed. If the Company had to litigate to protect these rights, any proceedings could be costly, and it may not prevail. The Company cannot guarantee that any United States or foreign patents, issued or pending, will provide it with any competitive advantage or will not be challenged by third parties. Additionally, the Company has obtained and applied for United States and foreign trademark registrations, and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional service marks and trademarks, as appropriate. The Company cannot guarantee that any of its pending patent or trademark applications will be approved by the applicable governmental authorities and, even if the applications are approved, third parties may seek to oppose or otherwise challenge these registrations. The failure to secure any pending patent or trademark applications may limit the Company’s ability to protect the intellectual property rights that these applications were intended to cover. A third party has demanded an increase in consideration from Domtar Inc. under an existing contract. In July 1998, Domtar Inc. acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of E.B. Eddy Limited and E.B. Eddy Paper, Inc. (E.B. Eddy), an integrated producer of specialty paper and wood products. The purchase agreement relating to this acquisition includes a purchase price adjustment whereby, in the event of the acquisition by a third-party of more than 50% of the shares of Domtar Inc. in specified circumstances, Domtar Inc. may be required to pay an increase in consideration of up to a maximum of $115 million (CDN$120 million). This amount gradually declines over a 25-year period and at March 7, 2007, the closing date of the combination of the Weyerhaeuser Fine Paper Business with Domtar Inc., the maximum amount of the purchase price adjustment was approximately $105 million (CDN$110 million). No provision was recorded for this potential purchase price adjustment. On March 14, 2007, the Company received a letter from George Weston Limited (the previous owner of E.B. Eddy and a party to the purchase agreement) demanding payment of $105 million (CDN$110 million) as a result of the consummation of the March 2007 combination of the Weyerhaeuser Fine Paper Business with 28 Domtar Inc. On June 12, 2007, an action was commenced by George Weston Limited against Domtar Inc. in the Superior Court of Justice of the province of Ontario, Canada, claiming that the consummation of the March 2007 combination of the Weyerhaeuser Fine Paper Business with Domtar Inc. triggered the purchase price adjustment and sought a purchase price adjustment of $105 million (CDN$110 million) as well as additional compensatory damages. The Company does not believe that the consummation of the March 2007 combination of the Weyerhaeuser Fine Paper Business with Domtar Inc. triggers an obligation to pay an increase in consideration under the purchase price adjustment and intends to defend itself vigorously against any claims with respect thereto. However, the Company may not be successful in its defense of such claims, and if it is ultimately required to pay an increase in consideration, such payment may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 