Item 1A. Risk Factors Future Changes in Interest Rates Could Reduce Our Net Income. Our net income largely depends on our net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest income is the difference between the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. The vast majority of our assets and liabilities are financial in nature, and as a result, changes in market and competitive interest rates can impact our customers’ actions as well as the types and amount of business opportunities that are available to us. In general, when changes occur in interest rates that prompt our customers to pursue strategies that are beneficial to them, the results are generally unfavorable for us. For example, if mortgage interest rates decline, our customers may seek to refinance, without penalty, their mortgage loans with us or repay their mortgage loans with us and go to another lender. When that happens, either the yield that we earn on the customer’s loan is reduced (if the customer refinances with us) or the mortgage is paid off and we are faced with the challenge of reinvesting the cash received to repay the mortgage in a lower interest rate environment. This is frequently referred to as reinvestment risk, which is the risk that we may not be able to reinvest the proceeds of loan prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the loans prior to receipt of the repayment. This risk exists in our mortgage loan portfolio as well as in the securities in our investment portfolio that are backed by mortgage loans. Another example of changes in interest rates that can have an unfavorable impact on our net interest income occurs in situations where interest rates paid on certificates of deposit experience a significant increase. In this circumstance, a certificate of deposit customer may determine that it is in his/her best interest to incur the existing penalty for early withdrawal, tender the certificate for cash and either reinvest the proceeds in a new certificate of deposit with us, or withdraw the funds and leave us. As a result, we either end up with a new, higher rate certificate (if the customer stays with us) or we must fund the customer’s withdrawal by: (1) reducing our cash reserves; (2) selling assets to generate cash to fund the withdrawal; (3) attracting deposits from another customer at the then higher interest rate; or (4) borrowing from a wholesale lender like the FHLB of Cincinnati, again at the then-higher interest rate. Each of these alternatives can have an unfavorable impact on us. Our net interest income can also be negatively impacted when assets and funding sources with seemingly similar repricing characteristics react differently to changing interest rates. An example of this phenomenon is our equity lines of credit loans and our high yield checking and high yield savings deposit products. Interest rates charged on our equity lines of credit loans are linked to the prime rate of interest which generally adjusts in a direct relationship to changes in the Federal Reserve’s Federal Funds target rate. Similarly, our High Yield Checking and High Yield Savings deposit products are generally expected to adjust when changes are made to the Federal Funds target rate. However, to the extent that reductions are made to the Federal Funds target rate, and those reductions translate into reductions of the prime rate and the rate charged on our equity lines of credit loans, but do not extend to equivalent adjustments to our High Yield Checking and High Yield Savings deposit products, we will experience a reduction in our net interest income. At September 30, 2009, we held $2.81 billion of equity lines of credit loans and $1.99 billion of High Yield Checking and High Yield Savings deposits. Our net income can be reduced by the impact that changes in interest rates can have on the value of our capitalized mortgage servicing rights. As of September 30, 2009, we were servicing $7.50 billion of loans sold to third parties, and the mortgage servicing rights associated with such loans had an amortized cost of $41.4 million and an estimated fair value, at that date, of $56.2 million. Because the estimated life and estimated income from the underlying mortgage loans generally increase with rising interest rates and decrease with falling interest rates, the value of mortgage servicing rights increases as interest rates rise and decreases as interest rates fall. 40 Table of Contents In general, changes in market and competitive interest rates result from events that we do not control and over which we generally have little or no influence. As a result, mitigation of the risk of the adverse affects of changing interest rates is generally limited to controlling the composition of the assets and liabilities that we hold. To monitor our positions, we maintain an interest rate risk modeling system which is designed to measure our interest rate risk sensitivity. Additionally, the results of a model to measure interest rate sensitivity are made available to us by the OTS. These models estimate the change in the Association’s net portfolio value over a range of interest rate scenarios. Net portfolio value is the discounted present value of expected cash flows from assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet contracts. At September 30, 2009, in the event of an immediate 200 basis point increase in all interest rates, the OTS model projects that we would experience a $75.2 million, or 5%, decrease in net portfolio value, and our internal model projects that we would experience a $210.5 million, or 14%, decrease in net portfolio value. Our internal calculations further project that, at September 30, 2009, in the event of an immediate 200 basis point increase in all interest rates, we would expect our projected net interest income for the twelve months ended September 30, 2010 to decrease by 7%. See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” Negative Developments in the Financial Industry and the Domestic and International Credit Markets May Adversely Affect Our Operations and Results. Since the latter half of 2007, negative developments in the global credit and securitization markets have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets and a general economic downturn which has continued into 2009. Loan portfolio quality has deteriorated at many institutions. In addition, the value of real estate collateral supporting many home mortgages has declined and may continue to decline. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. As a result, the potential exists for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to continue to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations. Negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments, may negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. In addition, these risks could affect the value of our loan portfolio as well as the value of our investment portfolio, which would also negatively affect our financial performance. Difficult Market Conditions Have Already Affected Us and Our Industry and May Continue to Do So. Our performance is significantly impacted by the general economic conditions in the States of Ohio and Florida, and surrounding areas, which have been severely impacted by the current downturn. The continuation of difficult market conditions is likely to result in increased unemployment, which will further weaken an already distressed local economy and could result in additional defaults of mortgage loans. Most of the loans in our loan portfolio are secured by real estate located in our primary market areas. Negative conditions, such as layoffs, in the markets where collateral for a mortgage loan is located could adversely affect a borrower’s ability to repay the loan and the value of the collateral securing the loan. Declines in the U.S. housing market manifested by falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, as well as unemployment and under-employment, have all negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to derivative and cash securities, in turn, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital from private and government entities, to merge with larger and stronger financial institutions and, in some cases, fail. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by recessionary conditions that are longer or deeper than expected. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business 41 Table of Contents activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • We expect to face increased regulation of our industry and compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. • Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future behaviors. • The processes we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure require difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation and which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the processes. • Our ability to engage in sales of mortgage loans to third parties (including mortgage loan securitization transactions with governmental entities) on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including deteriorating investor expectations. • Competition in our industry could intensify as a result of increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. A Legislative Proposal Has Been Introduced That Would Eliminate our Primary Federal Regulator, Require the Association to Convert to a National Bank or State Bank, and Require Third Federal, MHC and the Holding Company to Become Bank Holding Companies. The U.S. Treasury Department recently released a legislative proposal that would implement sweeping changes to the current bank regulatory structure. The proposal would create a new federal banking regulator, the National Bank Supervisor, and merge our current primary federal regulator, the OTS, as well as the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the primary federal regulator for national banks) into this new federal bank regulator. The proposal would also eliminate federal savings associations and require all federal savings associations, such as the Association, to elect, within six months of the effective date of the legislation, to convert to either a national bank, state bank or state savings association. A federal savings association that does not make the election would, by operation of law, be converted into a national bank within one year of the effective date of the legislation. If the Association is required to convert to a national bank, Third Federal Savings, MHC and the Company would become bank holding companies subject to supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”) as opposed to the OTS. The Federal Reserve has historically looked to OTS regulations in its regulation of mutual holding companies and processing of mutual holding company applications; however, it is not obligated to follow such regulations. One important OTS regulation that the Federal Reserve does not follow relates to the ability of mutual holding companies to waive the receipt of dividends declared on the common stock of their stock holding company or savings bank subsidiaries. While OTS regulations permit mutual holding companies to waive the receipt of dividends, subject to filing a notice with the OTS and receiving its non-objection, the Federal Reserve’s current policy is to prohibit mutual holding companies from waiving the receipt of dividends so long as the subsidiary savings bank is well capitalized. Moreover, OTS regulations provide that it will not take into account the amount of waived dividends in determining an appropriate exchange ratio for minority shares in the event of the conversion of a mutual holding company to stock form. If the OTS is eliminated, the Federal Reserve becomes the exclusive regulator of mutual holding companies, and the Federal Reserve retains its current policy regarding dividend waivers by mutual holding companies, Third Federal Savings, MHC would not be permitted to waive the receipt of dividends declared by the Company. This would have an adverse impact on our ability to pay dividends and, consequently, the value of our common stock. 42 Table of Contents Loans Originated Through Our Home Today Program Have Higher Delinquency Rates than the Remainder of Our Loan Portfolio. Prior to March 27, 2009, we offered loans through our Home Today program with our standard terms to borrowers who might not otherwise qualify for such loans. To qualify for our Home Today program, a borrower must complete financial management education and counseling and must be referred to us by a sponsoring organization with which we have partnered as part of the program and must meet a minimum credit score threshold. Because we applied less stringent underwriting and credit standards to these loans, loans originated under the Home Today program prior to March 27, 2009 have greater credit risk than traditional residential real estate mortgage loans. As of September 30, 2009, we had $291.7 million of outstanding loans that were originated through our Home Today program, 37.9% of which were delinquent 30 days or more, compared to 2.2% for our portfolio of non-Home Today loans as of that date. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2009, we incurred net charge-offs of $4.0 million, (1.35% of the average balance of Home Today loans) on loans originated through our Home Today program, compared to $6.7 million, (0.11% of the average balance of non-Home Today loans) of net charge-offs for our non-Home Today portfolio. Effective March 27, 2009, the Home Today underwriting guidelines are substantially the same as our traditional mortgage product. Any Future Increases in FDIC Insurance Premiums or FDIC Special Assessments Will Adversely Impact Our Earnings. On May 22, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule levying a five basis point special assessment on each insured depository institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. The special assessment was paid on September 30, 2009. We recorded an expense of $4.8 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2009, to reflect the special assessment. While the final rule permits the FDIC’s Board of Directors to levy up to two additional special assessments of up to five basis points each during 2009 if the FDIC estimates that the Deposit Insurance Fund reserve ratio will fall to a level that the FDIC’s Board of Directors believes would adversely affect public confidence or to a level that will be close to or below zero, such additional special assessments are not currently considered likely. This is because, on September 30, 2009, the FDIC published a notice of proposed rulemaking which was adopted as a final rule on November 12, 2009 imposing a prepayment of deposit insurance assessments that institutions would otherwise be expected to pay for calendar years 2010 through 2012. Included with this prepayment requirement is a 3 basis point increase in the assessment rate for calendar years 2011 and 2012. The FDIC has indicated that with the proceeds of the prepayment, additional special assessments will not be necessary in 2009, however, the prepayment requirement does not necessarily preclude the FDIC from imposing a special assessment, from changing assessment rates or from revising the risk-based assessment system, pursuant to the existing notice-and-comment rulemaking framework. Should the FDIC find it necessary to impose any further special assessments or further increase assessment rates, our FDIC general insurance premium expense will increase substantially compared to prior periods. Hurricanes or Other Adverse Weather Events Could Negatively Affect the Economy in Our Florida Market Area or Cause Disruptions to Our Branch Office Locations, Which Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business or Results of Operations. A significant portion of our operations are conducted in the State of Florida, a geographic region with coastal areas that are susceptible to hurricanes and tropical storms. Such weather events can disrupt our operations, result in damage to our branch office locations and negatively affect the local economy in which we operate. We cannot predict whether or to what extent damage caused by future hurricanes or tropical storms will affect our operations or the economy in our market area, but such weather events could result in fewer loan originations and greater delinquencies, foreclosures or loan losses. These and other negative effects of future hurricanes or tropical storms may adversely affect our business or results of operations. 43 Table of Contents Strong Competition Within Our Market Areas May Limit Our Growth and Profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market areas, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, money market funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Some of our competitors have greater name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business, and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do. Troubled financials institutions may significantly increase the interest rates paid to depositors in pursuit of retail deposits when wholesale funding sources are not available to them. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market areas. For additional information see “Business—Third Federal Savings and Loan Association of Cleveland—Competition.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 