Item 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our equity securities involves significant risks. Any of these risks, as well as other risks not currently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. In assessing the risks described below, you should also refer to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes, before deciding to purchase any shares of our common stock. We depend on cable multiple system operators (MSOs) and telecommunications companies adopting advanced technologies for substantially all of our net revenues, and any decrease or delay in capital spending for these advanced technologies would harm our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Almost all of our sales depend on cable MSOs and telecommunications companies adopting advanced video technologies, and we expect these sales to continue to constitute a significant majority of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Demand for our products will depend on the magnitude and timing of capital spending by service providers on advanced technologies for constructing and upgrading their network infrastructure, and a reduction or delay in this spending could have a material adverse effect on our business. The capital spending patterns of our existing and potential customers are dependent on a variety of factors, including: • annual budget cycles; • overall consumer demand for video services and the acceptance of newly introduced services; • technology adoption cycles and network architectures of service providers, and evolving industry standards that may impact them; • competitive pressures, including pricing pressures; • changes in general economic conditions; • the impact of industry consolidation; • the strategic focus of our customers and potential customers; • the status of federal, local and foreign government regulation of telecommunications and television broadcasting, and regulatory approvals that our customers need to obtain; • discretionary customer spending patterns; • bankruptcies and financial restructurings within the industry; and • work stoppages or other labor- or labor market-related issues that may impact the timing of orders and revenues from our customers. Since 2009, we have seen reduced capital spending by our customers for our key products. Any continued slowdown or delay in the capital spending by service providers for our products as a result of any of the above factors would likely have a significant adverse impact on our quarterly revenues and net losses. Our operating results are likely to fluctuate significantly and may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors or our guidance, causing our stock price to decline. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to continue to fluctuate, on an annual and a quarterly basis, as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. These factors include: • market acceptance of new or existing products offered by us or our customers; • the level and timing of capital spending by our customers; 14 Table of Contents • the timing, mix and amount of orders, especially from significant customers; • the level of our deferred revenue balances; • changes in market demand for our products; • our mix of products sold; • the mix of software and hardware products sold; • our unpredictable and lengthy sales cycles, which typically range from six to 18 months; • the timing of revenue recognition on sales arrangements, which may include multiple deliverables and result in delays in recognizing revenue; • our ability to design, install and receive customer acceptance of our products; • materially different acceptance criteria in key customers’ agreements, which can result in large amounts of revenue being recognized, or deferred, as the different acceptance criteria are applied to large orders; • new product introductions by our competitors; • market acceptance of new or existing products offered by us or our customers; • competitive market conditions, including pricing actions by our competitors; • our ability to complete complex development of our software and hardware on a timely basis; • unexpected changes in our operating expenses; • the impact of new accounting, income tax and disclosure rules; • the cost and availability of components used in our products; • the potential loss of key manufacturer and supplier relationships; and • changes in domestic and international regulatory environments. In particular, we expect that our 2011 financial performance will be significantly affected by our ability to deliver our next-generation QAM in a timely fashion with acceptable quality, and achieving market acceptance of this new patform. We establish our expenditure levels for product development and other operating expenses based on projected sales levels, and our expenses are relatively fixed in the short term. Accordingly, variations in the timing of our sales can cause significant fluctuations in our operating results. In addition, as a result of the factors described above, our operating results in one or more future periods may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors or our guidance, which would likely cause the trading price of our common stock to decline substantially. Our customer base is highly concentrated, and there are a limited number of potential customers for our products. The loss of any of our key customers would likely reduce our revenues significantly. Historically, a large portion of our sales have been to a limited number of large customers. Our five largest customers accounted for approximately 74% of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to 78% for the year ended December 31, 2009. Cox Communications, Time Warner Cable and Verizon each represented 10% or more of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010. Charter Communications, Time Warner Cable and Verizon each represented 10% or more of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009. We believe that for the foreseeable future our net revenues will be concentrated in a limited number of large customers, and we do not have contracts or other agreements that guarantee continued sales to these or any other customers. Consequently, reduced capital expenditures by any one of our larger customers (whether caused by adverse financial conditions, more cautious spending patterns due to economic uncertainty or other factors) is likely to have a material negative impact on our operating results. For example, Verizon slowed the rollout of its FiOS system in 2009, which has had continuing negative impact on our business. In addition, as the consolidation of ownership of cable MSOs and telecommunications companies continues, we may lose existing customers and have 15 Table of Contents access to a shrinking pool of potential customers. We expect to see continuing industry consolidation due to the significant capital costs of constructing video, voice and data networks and for other reasons. This will likely result in our customers gaining increased purchasing leverage over us. This may reduce the selling prices of our products and services and as a result may harm our business and financial results. Many of our customers desire to have two sources for the products we sell to them. As a result, our future revenue opportunities could be limited, and our profitability could be adversely impacted. The loss of, or reduction in orders from, any of our key customers would significantly reduce our revenues and have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. If revenues forecasted for a particular period are not realized in such period due to the lengthy, complex and unpredictable sales cycles of our products, our operating results for that or subsequent periods will be harmed. The sales cycles of our products are typically lengthy, complex and unpredictable and usually involve: • a significant technical evaluation period; • a significant commitment of capital and other resources by service providers; • substantial time required to engineer the deployment of new technologies for new video services; • substantial testing and acceptance of new technologies that affect key operations; and • substantial test marketing of new services with subscribers. For these and other reasons, our sales cycles are generally between six and eighteen months, but can last longer. If orders forecasted for a specific customer for a particular quarter do not occur in that quarter, our operating results for that quarter or subsequent quarters could be substantially lower than anticipated. Our quarterly and annual results may fluctuate significantly due to revenue recognition rules and the timing of the receipt of customer orders. Additionally, we derive a large portion of our net revenues from sales that include the network design, installation and integration of equipment, including equipment acquired from third parties to be integrated with our products to the specifications of our customers. We base our revenue forecasts on the estimated timing to complete the network design, installation and integration of our customer projects and customer acceptance of those products. The systems of our customers are both diverse and complex, and our ability to configure, test and integrate our systems with other elements of our customers’ networks depends on technologies provided to our customers by third parties. As a result, the timing of our revenue related to the implementation of our solutions in these complex networks is difficult to predict and could result in lower than expected revenue in any particular quarter. Similarly, our ability to deploy our equipment in a timely fashion can be subject to a number of other risks, including the availability of skilled engineering and technical personnel, the availability of equipment produced by third parties and our customers’ need to obtain regulatory approvals. Lower deferred revenue balances will make future period results less predictable. Historically, we have had relatively high deferred revenue balances at quarter end, which has provided us with some measure of predictability for future periods. However, our deferred revenue balance as of December 31, 2010 was approximately $18.4 million lower than it was as of December 31, 2009. This lower deferred revenue balance makes our quarterly revenue more dependent on orders both received and shipped within the same quarter, and therefore less predictable. This lack of deferred revenues could cause additional revenue volatility, which could in turn harm our stock price. 16 Table of Contents The markets in which we operate are intensely competitive, many of our competitors are larger, more established and better capitalized than we are, and some of our competitors have integrated products performing functions similar to our products into their existing network infrastructure offerings, and consequently our existing and potential customers may decide against using our products in their networks, which would harm our business. The markets for selling network-based hardware and software products to service providers are extremely competitive and have been characterized by rapid technological change. We compete broadly with system suppliers including ARRIS Group, Cisco Systems, Harmonic, Motorola and a number of smaller companies. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have. Given their capital resources, long-standing relationships with service providers worldwide, and broader product lines, many of these large organizations are in a better position to withstand any significant reduction in capital spending by customers in these markets. If we are unable to overcome these resource advantages, our competitive position would suffer. In addition, other providers of network-based hardware and software products offer functionality aimed at solving similar problems addressed by our products. For example, several vendors have announced products designed to compete with our Switched Digital Video solution. The inclusion of functionality perceived to be similar to our product offerings in our competitors’ products that already have been accepted as necessary components of network architecture may have an adverse effect on our ability to market and sell our products. In addition, our customers’ other vendors that can provide a broader product offering may be able to offer pricing or other concessions that we are not able to match because we currently offer a more modest suite of products and have fewer resources. If our existing or potential customers are reluctant to add network infrastructure from new vendors or otherwise decide to work with their other existing vendors, our business, operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected. Over the years, we have seen consolidation among our competitors. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or maintain their market positions in the evolving industry for video by increasing the amount of commercial and technical integration of their video products. Due to our comparatively small size and comparatively narrow product offerings, our ability to compete will depend on our ability to partner with companies to offer a more complete overall solution. If we fail to do so, our competitive position will be harmed and our sales will likely suffer. These combined companies may offer more compelling product offerings and may be able to offer greater pricing flexibility, making it more difficult for us to compete while sustaining acceptable gross margins. Finally, continued industry consolidation may impact customers’ perceptions of the viability of smaller companies, which may affect their willingness to purchase products from us. These competitive pressures could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We have been unable to achieve sustained profitability, which could harm the price of our stock. Historically, we have experienced significant operating losses, and we were not profitable in both the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2010. If we fail to achieve or sustain profitability in the future, it will harm our long-term business, and we may not meet the expectations of the investment community, which would have a material adverse impact on our stock price. We may not accurately anticipate the timing of the market needs for our products and develop such products at the appropriate times at significant research and development expense, or we may not gain market acceptance of our emerging video solutions and/or adoption of new network architectures and technologies, any of which could harm our operating results and financial condition. Accurately forecasting and meeting our customers’ requirements is critical to the success of our business. Forecasting to meet customers’ needs is particularly difficult for newer products and products under development. Our ability to meet customer demand depends on our ability to configure our solutions to the complex architectures that our customers have developed, the availability of components and other materials and the ability of our contract manufacturers to scale their production of our products. Our ability to meet customer requirements depends on our ability to obtain sufficient volumes of required components and materials in a timely fashion. If we fail to meet 17 Table of Contents customers’ supply expectations, our net revenues will be adversely affected, and we will likely lose business. In addition, our priorities for future product development are based on how we expect the market for video services to develop in the U.S. and in international markets. Future demand for our products will depend significantly on the growing market acceptance of several emerging video services including HDTV, addressable advertising, video delivered over telecommunications company networks and video delivered over Internet Protocol by cable MSOs. The effective delivery of these services will depend on service providers developing and building new network architectures to deliver them. If the introduction or adoption of these services or the deployment of these networks is not as widespread or as rapid as we or our customers expect, our revenue opportunities will be limited. Our product development efforts require substantial research and development expense, as we develop new technology, including next generation MSP and technology primarily related to the delivery of video over IP networks. In addition, as many of our products are new solutions, there is a risk of delays in delivery of these solutions. Our research and development expense increased from $46.4 million in 2009 to $50.9 million in 2010 without a corresponding increase in revenues, and there can be no assurance that we will achieve an acceptable return on our research and development efforts, and no assurance that we will be able to deliver our solutions in time to achieve market acceptance. Our ability to grow will depend significantly on our delivery of products that help enable telecommunications companies to provide video services. If the demand for video services from telecommunications companies does not materialize or if these service providers find alternative methods of delivering video services, future sales of our video products will suffer. We have generated significant revenues from a single telecommunications company. Our ability to grow will depend on our selling video products to additional telecommunications companies. Although a number of our existing products are being deployed in telecom networks, we will need to devote considerable resources to obtain orders, qualify our products and hire knowledgeable personnel to address telecommunications company customers, each of which will require significant time and financial commitment. These efforts may not be successful in the near future, or at all. If technological advancements allow telecommunications companies to provide video services without upgrading their current system infrastructure or provide them a more cost-effective method of delivering video services than our products, projected sales of our video products will suffer. Even if these providers choose our video solutions, they may not be successful in marketing video services to their customers, in which case additional sales of our products would likely be limited. Selling successfully to additional telecommunication companies will be a significant challenge for us. Several of our largest competitors have mature customer relationships with many of the largest telecommunications companies, while we have limited experience with sales and marketing efforts designed to reach these potential customers. In addition, telecommunications companies face specific network architecture and legacy technology issues that we have only limited expertise in addressing. If we fail to penetrate the telecommunications market successfully, our growth in revenues and our operating results would likely be adversely impacted. We anticipate that our gross margins will fluctuate with changes in our product mix and our fixed cost absorption. We expect decreases in the average selling prices of our hardware and software products to further adversely impact our operating results. Our product gross margins decreased in 2010 compared to our product gross margins in 2009. Our industry has historically experienced a decrease in average selling prices. We anticipate that the average selling prices of our products will continue to decrease in the future in response to competitive pricing pressures, increased sales discounts and new product introductions by our competitors. We may experience substantial decreases in future operating results due to a decrease of our average selling prices. Additionally, our failure to develop and introduce new products on a timely basis or to effectively absorb our fixed costs would likely contribute to a decline in our gross margins, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and cause the price of our common stock to decline. We also anticipate that our gross margins will fluctuate from period to period as a result of 18 Table of Contents the mix of products we sell in any given period. If our sales of lower margin products significantly expand in future quarterly periods, our overall gross margin levels and operating results would be adversely impacted. If we do not accurately anticipate the correct mix of our products that will be sold, we may be required to record charges related to excess inventories. Due to the unpredictable nature of the demand for our products, we are required to place non-cancellable orders with our suppliers for components, finished products and services in advance of actual customer commitments to purchase these products. Significant unanticipated fluctuations in demand could result in costly excess production or inventories. Our inventory balance was approximately $6.2 million higher as of December 31, 2010 compared to December 31, 2009. In order to reduce the negative financial impact of excess production, we may be required to significantly reduce the sales prices of our products in an attempt to increase demand, which in turn could result in a reduction in the value of the original inventory. If we were to determine that we could not utilize or sell this inventory, we may be required to write down its value. Writing down inventory or reducing product prices could adversely impact our gross margins and financial condition. Any further economic downturn will likely adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and make our future business more difficult to forecast and manage. Our business is sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, both in the U.S. and globally. Due to the continued tight credit markets and concerns regarding the availability of credit, our current or potential customers may delay or reduce purchases of our products, which would adversely affect our revenues and therefore harm our business and results of operations. We expect our business to be adversely impacted by any future downturn in the U.S. or global economies as our customers’ capital spending is expected to be reduced during in response to such conditions. Any uncertainty in the U.S. and global economies would likely make it more difficult for us to forecast and manage our business. Our efforts to develop additional channels to market and sell our products internationally may take longer to be successful than we anticipate, if they succeed at all. Our video solutions traditionally have been sold directly to large cable MSOs, and a limited number of telecommunications companies. To date, we have not focused on smaller service providers and have had only limited access to service providers in certain international markets, including Asia and Europe. Although we intend to establish strategic relationships with leading distributors worldwide in an attempt to reach new customers, we may not succeed in establishing these relationships. Even if we do establish these relationships, the distributors may not succeed in marketing our products to their customers. Some of our competitors have established long-standing relationships with cable MSOs and telecommunications companies that may limit our and our distributors’ ability to sell our products to those customers. Even if we were to sell our products to those customers, it would likely not be based on long-term commitments, and those customers would be able to terminate their relationships with us at any time without significant penalties. International sales represented 9.5% of our net revenues for 2010 compared to 11.2% for 2009. Our international sales depend on our development of indirect sales channels in Europe and Asia through distributor and reseller arrangements with third parties. However, our recent efforts at international expansion have not resulted in increased revenues from these markets, and there can be no assurance that our current efforts will substantially diversify our product revenue. We may not be able to successfully enter into additional reseller and/or distribution agreements and/or may not be able to successfully manage our product sales channels. In addition, many of our resellers also sell products from other vendors that compete with our products and may choose to focus on products of those vendors. Additionally, our ability to utilize an indirect sales model in these international markets will depend on our ability to qualify and train those resellers to perform product installations and to provide customer support. If we fail to develop and cultivate relationships with significant resellers, or if these resellers do not succeed in their sales efforts (whether because they are unable to provide support or otherwise), we may be unable to grow or sustain our revenue in international markets. 19 Table of Contents Our expansion of international development operations may take longer to be successful than we anticipate, if they succeed at all. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 81% of our research and development headcount was located outside the U.S., primarily in Israel and increasingly in China. Managing research and development operations in numerous locations requires substantial management oversight. If we are unable to expand our international operations successfully and in a timely manner, our business, operating results and financial condition may be harmed. Such expansion may be more difficult or could take longer than we anticipate. Our international operations, and the international operations of our contract manufacturers and our outsourced development contractors, are subject to a number of risks, any or all of which could reduce our future revenues or increase our costs from our international operations. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our financial results and cash flows. Because a substantial portion of our employee base is located in Israel, we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the Israeli New Shekel. These fluctuations could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. A decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could increase our operating expenses and the cost of raw materials to the extent that we must purchase components or pay employees in foreign currencies. Currently, we hedge a portion of our anticipated future expenses and certain assets and liabilities denominated in the Israeli New Shekel. The hedging activities we undertake are intended to partially offset the impact of currency fluctuations. As our hedging program is relatively short-term in nature, a material long-term change in the value of the U.S. dollar versus the Israeli New Shekel could increase our operating expenses in the future. Our products must interoperate with many software applications and hardware found in our customers’ networks. If we are unable to ensure that our products interoperate properly, our business would be harmed. Our products must interoperate with our customers’ existing networks, which often have varied and complex specifications, utilize multiple protocol standards, software applications and products from multiple vendors, and contain multiple generations of products that have been added over time. As a result, we must continually ensure that our products interoperate properly with these existing networks. To meet these requirements, we must undertake development efforts that require substantial capital investment and employee resources. We may not accomplish these development efforts quickly or cost-effectively, if at all. For example, our products currently interoperate with equipment from several vendors such as ARRIS Group, Cisco Systems, Microsoft and Motorola. If we fail to maintain compatibility with these vendors (some of whom are our competitors), we may face substantially reduced demand for, or delay in the implementation of, our products, either or both of which would adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We have entered into interoperability arrangements with a number of equipment and software vendors for the use or integration of their technology with our products. In these cases, the arrangements give us access to and enable interoperability with various products in the digital video market that we do not otherwise offer. If these relationships fail, we will have to devote substantially more resources to the development of alternative products and the support of our products, and our efforts may not be as effective as the combined solutions with our current partners. In many cases, these parties are either companies with which we compete directly in other areas, such as Motorola, or companies that have extensive relationships with our existing and potential customers and may have influence over the purchasing decisions of these customers. A number of our competitors have stronger relationships with some of our existing and potential partners and, as a result, our ability to successfully partner with these companies may be harmed. Our failure to establish or maintain key relationships with third party equipment and software vendors may harm our ability to successfully sell and market our products. We are currently investing significant resources to develop these relationships. Our operating results could be adversely affected if these efforts do not generate the revenues necessary to offset this investment. 20 Table of Contents In addition, if we find errors in the existing software or defects in the hardware used in our customers’ networks or problematic network configurations or settings, as we have in the past, we may have to modify our software or hardware so that our products will interoperate with our customers’ networks. This could cause longer installation times for our products and could cause order cancellations, either of which would adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our ability to sell our products is highly dependent on the quality of our support and services offerings, and our failure to offer high-quality support and services would have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. Once our products are deployed within our customers’ networks, our customers depend on our support organization to resolve any issues relating to our products. If we or our channel partners do not effectively assist our customers in deploying our products, or succeed in helping our customers quickly resolve post-deployment issues and provide effective ongoing support, our ability to sell our products to existing customers would be adversely affected and our reputation with potential customers could be harmed. In addition, to the extent we expand our operations internationally, our support organization will face additional challenges including those associated with delivering support, training and documentation in languages other than English. Our failure to maintain high-quality support and services would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If we fail to comply with new laws and regulations, or changing interpretations of existing laws or regulations, our future revenues could be adversely affected. Our products are subject to various legal and regulatory requirements and changes. For example, effective June 12, 2009, federal law required that television broadcast stations stop broadcasting in analog format and broadcast only in digital format. We believe that this change accelerated the timing of sales of our digital products, and consequently the revenue associated with our broadcast solutions decreased after June 30, 2009. These and other implementations of laws and interpretations of existing regulations could cause our customers to forgo or change the timing of spending on new technology rollouts, such as switched digital video, which could make our results more difficult to predict, or harm our revenues. Additionally, governments in the U.S. and other countries have adopted laws and regulations regarding privacy and advertising that could impact important aspects of our business. In particular, governments are considering new limits or requirements with respect to our customers’ collection, use, storage and disclosure of personal information for marketing purposes. Any legislation enacted or regulation issued could dampen the growth and acceptance of addressable advertising which is enabled by our products. If the use of our products to increase advertising revenue is limited or becomes unlawful, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. We must manage our business effectively even if our infrastructure, management and resources might be strained due to our continued expense reduction efforts. In the past several years, including this year, we have undertaken a number of reductions in force, experienced a number of changes in our executive management and implemented other cost reduction measures. In addition, we currently have a vacancy on our audit committee. Effectively managing our business with reduced headcount and expenses in some areas, and board vacancies, will likely place increased strain on our existing resources. In addition, we may need to expand and otherwise improve our internal systems, including our management information systems, customer relationship and support systems, and operating, administrative and financial systems and controls. These efforts may require us to make significant capital expenditures or incur significant expenses, and divert the attention of management, sales, support and finance personnel from our core business operations, which may adversely affect our financial performance in future periods. Moreover, to the extent we grow in the future, such growth will result in increased responsibilities for our management personnel. Managing any future growth will require substantial resources that we may not have or otherwise be able to obtain. 21 Table of Contents Our business is subject to the risks of warranty returns, product liability and product defects. Products like ours are very complex and can frequently contain undetected errors or failures, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. Despite testing, errors may occur. Product errors could affect the performance of our products, delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products, adversely affect our reputation and our customers’ willingness to buy products from us and adversely affect market acceptance or perception of our products. Any such errors or delays in releasing new products or new versions of products or allegations of unsatisfactory performance could cause us to lose revenue or market share, increase our service costs, cause us to incur substantial costs in redesigning the products, subject us to liability for damages and divert our resources from other tasks, any one of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Although we have limitation of liability provisions in our standard terms and conditions of sale, they may not fully or effectively protect us from claims as a result of federal, state or local laws or ordinances or unfavorable judicial decisions in the U.S. or other countries. The sale and support of our products also entails the risk of product liability claims. We maintain insurance to protect against certain claims associated with the use of our products, but our insurance coverage may not adequately cover any claim asserted against us. In addition, even claims that ultimately are unsuccessful could result in our expenditure of funds in litigation and divert management’s time and other resources. Regional instability in Israel may adversely affect business conditions, including the operations of our contract manufacturers, and may disrupt our operations and negatively affect our operating results. A substantial portion of our research and development operations and our contract manufacturing occurs in Israel. As of December 31, 2010, we had 166 full-time employees located in Israel. We also have customer service, marketing and general and administrative employees at this facility. Accordingly, we are directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel, and any major hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners could significantly harm our business. In addition, in the past, Israel and companies doing business with Israel have been the subject of an economic boycott. Israel has also been and is subject to civil unrest and terrorist activity, with varying levels of severity, for the last decade. Security and political conditions may have an adverse impact on our business in the future. Hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners could adversely affect our operations and make it more difficult for us to retain or recruit qualified personnel in Israel. In addition, most of our employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israeli Defense Forces and several have been called for active military duty in connection with intermittent hostilities over the years. Should hostilities in the region escalate again, some of our employees would likely be called to active military duty, possibly resulting in interruptions in our sales and development efforts and other impacts on our business and operations, which we cannot currently assess. We depend on a limited number of third parties to provide key components of, and to provide manufacturing and assembly services with respect to, our products. We and our contract manufacturers obtain many components necessary for the manufacture or integration of our products from a sole supplier or a limited group of suppliers. We or our contract manufacturers do not typically have long-term agreements in place with such suppliers. As an example, we do not have a long-term purchase agreement in place with PowerOne, the sole supplier of power supplies for our products. Our direct and indirect reliance on sole or limited suppliers involves several risks, including the inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components, and reduced control over pricing, quality and timely delivery of components. Our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis to our customers would be materially adversely impacted if we or our contract manufacturers needed to find alternative replacements for (as examples) the chassis, chipsets, central processing units or power supplies that we use in our products. Significant time and effort would be required to locate new vendors for these alternative components, if alternatives are even available. Moreover, the lead times required by the suppliers of some components are lengthy and preclude rapid changes in quantity requirements and delivery schedules. Even as we increase our use of standardized components, we may experience supply chain issues, 22 Table of Contents particularly as a result of market volatility. Such volatility could lead suppliers to decrease inventory, which in turn would lead to increased manufacturing lead times for us. In addition, increased demand by third parties for the components we use in our products (for example, Field Programmable Gate Arrays or other semiconductor technology) may lead to decreased availability and higher prices for those components from our suppliers, since we generally carry little inventory of our product components. As a result, we may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build products in a timely manner, which would impact our ability to deliver products to our customers, and our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. For manufacturing and assembly, we currently rely exclusively on Flextronics or Benchmark, depending on the product, to assemble our products, manage our supply chain and negotiate component costs for our solutions. Our reliance on these contract manufacturers reduces our control over the assembly process, exposing us to risks, including reduced control over quality assurance, production costs and product supply. If we fail to manage our relationships with these contract manufacturers effectively, or if these contract manufacturers experience delays (including delays in their ability to purchase components, as noted above), disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in their operations, our ability to ship products to our customers could be impaired and our competitive position and reputation could be harmed. If these contract manufacturers are unable to negotiate with their suppliers for reduced component costs, our operating results would be harmed. Qualifying a new contract manufacturer and commencing volume production is expensive and time-consuming. If we are required to change contract manufacturers, we may lose net revenues, incur increased costs and damage our customer relationships. Our failure to adequately protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, or to secure such rights on reasonable terms, may adversely affect us. We hold numerous issued U.S. patents and have a number of patent applications pending in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. Although we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through patents, copyrights, trademarks, licensing arrangements, maintaining certain technology as trade secrets and other measures, we cannot be sure that any patent, trademark, copyright or other intellectual property rights owned by us will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged, that such intellectual property rights will provide competitive advantages to us or that any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued with the scope of the claims sought by us, if at all. Despite our efforts, other competitors may be able to develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology, duplicate our technology to the extent it is not protected, or design around the patents that we own. In addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries in which we do business or may do business in the future. The steps that we have taken may not prevent misappropriation of our technology. In addition, to prevent misappropriation we may need to take legal action to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. For example, on June 5, 2007, we filed a lawsuit in federal court against Imagine Communications, Inc., alleging patent infringement. This and other potential intellectual property litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In order to successfully develop and market certain of our planned products, we may be required to enter into technology development or licensing agreements with third parties whether to avoid infringement or because we believe a specific functionality is necessary for a successful product launch. These third parties may be willing to enter into technology development or licensing agreements only on a costly royalty basis or on terms unacceptable to us, or not at all. Our failure to enter into technology development or licensing agreements on reasonable terms, when necessary, could limit our ability to develop and market new products and could cause our business to suffer. For example, we could face delays in product releases until alternative technology can be identified, licensed or developed, and integrated into our current products. These delays, if they occur, could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 23 Table of Contents We may face intellectual property infringement claims from third parties. Our industry is characterized by the existence of an extensive number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. From time to time, third parties have asserted and may assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights against us or our customers. Our suppliers and customers may have similar claims asserted against them. We have agreed to indemnify some of our suppliers and customers for alleged patent infringement. The scope of this indemnity varies, but, in some instances, includes indemnification for damages and expenses including reasonable attorneys’ fees. Any future litigation, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial expense and significant diversion of the efforts of our management and technical personnel. An adverse determination in any such proceeding could subject us to significant liabilities, temporary or permanent injunctions or require us to seek licenses from third parties or pay royalties that may be substantial. Furthermore, necessary licenses may not be available on satisfactory terms, or at all. Our use of open source and third-party software could impose limitations on our ability to commercialize our products. We incorporate open source software into our products, including certain open source code which is governed by the GNU General Public License, Lesser GNU General Public License and Common Development and Distribution License. The terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by U.S. courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. In such event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our products, make generally available, in source code form, proprietary code that links to certain open source modules, re-engineer our products, discontinue the sale of our products if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a cost-effective and timely basis, or become subject to other consequences, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may engage in future acquisitions that dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders, cause us to use a significant portion of our cash, incur debt or assume contingent liabilities. As part of our business strategy, from time to time, we review potential acquisitions of other businesses, and we may acquire businesses, products, or technologies in the future. In the event of any future acquisitions, we could: • issue equity securities which would dilute our current stockholders’ percentage ownership; • incur substantial debt; • assume contingent liabilities; or • spend significant cash. These actions could harm our business, operating results and financial condition, or the price of our common stock. Moreover, even if we do obtain benefits from acquisitions in the form of increased sales and earnings, there may be a delay between the time when the expenses associated with an acquisition are incurred and the time when we recognize such benefits. This is particularly relevant in cases where it is necessary to integrate new types of technology into our existing portfolio and where new types of products may be targeted for potential customers with which we do not have pre-existing relationships. Acquisitions and investment activities also entail numerous risks, including: • difficulties in the assimilation of acquired operations, technologies and/or products; • unanticipated acquisition transaction costs; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; • the potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses; 24 Table of Contents • difficulties in the assimilation of different corporate cultures and practices; and • substantial charges for the amortization of certain purchased intangible assets, deferred stock compensation or similar items. We may not be able to successfully integrate any businesses, products, technologies or personnel that we might acquire in the future, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Negative conditions in the global credit markets may impair the value or reduce the liquidity of a portion of our investment portfolio. As of December 31, 2010, we had $143.5 million in cash, cash equivalents and investments in marketable securities. Historically, we have invested these amounts primarily in government agency debt securities, corporate debt securities, commercial paper, auction rate securities, money market funds and taxable municipal debt securities meeting certain criteria. We currently hold no mortgaged-backed or auction rate securities. However, our investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by any uncertainty in the U.S. and global credit markets such as the conditions in late 2008 and 2009 that affected various sectors of the financial markets and caused global credit and liquidity issues. In the future, market risks associated with our investment portfolio may harm the results of our operations, liquidity and financial condition. Although we believe we have chosen a lower risk portfolio designed to preserve our existing cash position, it may not adequately protect the value of our investments. Furthermore, this lower risk portfolio is unlikely to provide us with any significant interest income in the near term. While we believe that we currently have proper and effective internal control over financial reporting, we must continue to comply with laws requiring us to evaluate those internal controls. We are required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The provisions of the act require, among other things, that we evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place to help produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort. For example, our accounting for income taxes requires considerable, specific knowledge of various tax acts, both foreign and domestic, and also involves several subjective judgments that could lead to fluctuations in our results of operations should some or all events not occur as anticipated. We incur significant costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with these laws and regulations affecting us as a public company. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls in future periods, it could adversely affect our ability to run our business effectively and could cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting. We are subject to import/export controls that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in international markets. Our products are subject to U.S. export controls and may be exported outside the U.S. only with the required level of export license or through an export license exception, in most cases because we incorporate encryption technology into our products. In addition, various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products or could limit our customers’ ability to implement our products in those countries. Changes in our products or changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products throughout their global systems or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries altogether. Any change in export or import regulations or related legislation, shift in approach to the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential customers internationally. In addition, we may be subject to customs duties and export quotas, which could have a significant impact on our revenue and profitability. While we have not yet encountered significant regulatory difficulties in connection 25 Table of Contents with the sales of our products in international markets, the future imposition of significant customs duties or export quotas could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fire, floods and other natural catastrophic events, and to interruption by manmade problems such as computer viruses or terrorism. Our corporate headquarters is located in the San Francisco Bay area, a region known for seismic activity. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire or a flood, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, our computer servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. In addition, acts of terrorism or war or public health outbreaks could cause disruptions in our or our customers’ business or the economy as a whole. To the extent that such disruptions result in delays or cancellations of customer orders, or the deployment of our products, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 