Item 1A. Risk Factors Future changes in interest rates could reduce our net income. Our net income largely depends on our net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest income is the difference between the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. The vast majority of our assets and liabilities are financial in nature, and as a result, changes in market and competitive interest rates can impact our customers’ actions as well as the types and amount of business opportunities that are available to us. In general, when changes occur in interest rates that prompt our customers to pursue strategies that are beneficial to them, the results are generally unfavorable for us. For example, if mortgage interest rates decline, our customers may seek to refinance, without penalty, their mortgage loans with us or repay their mortgage loans with us and borrow from another lender. When that happens, either the yield that we earn on the customer’s loan is reduced (if the customer refinances with us) or the mortgage is paid off and we are faced with the challenge of reinvesting the cash received to repay the mortgage in a lower interest rate environment. This is frequently referred to as reinvestment risk, which is the risk that we may not be able to reinvest the proceeds of loan prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the loans prior to receipt of the repayment. This risk also exists with the securities in our investment portfolio that are backed by mortgage loans. Another example of changes in interest rates that can have an unfavorable impact on our net interest income occurs in situations where interest rates paid on certificates of deposit experience a significant increase. In this circumstance, a certificate of deposit customer may determine that it is in his/her best interest to incur the existing penalty for early withdrawal, tender the certificate for cash and either reinvest the proceeds in a new certificate of deposit with us, or withdraw the funds and leave us. As a result, we either end up with a new, higher rate certificate (if the customer stays with us) or we must fund the customer’s withdrawal by: (1) reducing our cash reserves; (2) selling assets to generate cash to fund the withdrawal; (3) attracting deposits from another customer at the then-higher interest rate; or (4) borrowing from a wholesale lender like the FHLB of Cincinnati, again at the then-higher interest rate. Each of these alternatives can have an unfavorable impact on us. Our net interest income can also be negatively impacted when assets and funding sources with seemingly similar re-pricing characteristics react differently to changing interest rates. An example is our home equity lines of credit loans and our high yield checking and high yield savings deposit products. Interest rates charged on our home equity lines of credit loans are linked to the prime rate of interest, which generally adjusts in a direct relationship to changes in the Federal Reserve’s Federal Funds target rate. Similarly, our High Yield Checking and High Yield Savings deposit products are generally expected to adjust when changes are made to the Federal Funds target rate. However, to the extent that reductions are made to the Federal Funds target rate, and those reductions translate into reductions of the prime rate and the rate charged on our home equity lines of credit loans, but do not extend to equivalent adjustments to our High Yield Checking and High Yield Savings deposit products, we will experience a reduction in our net interest income. At September 30, 2011, we held $2.28 billion of home equity lines of credit loans and $2.45 billion of High Yield Checking and High Yield Savings deposits. Our net income can be reduced by the impact that changes in interest rates can have on the value of our capitalized mortgage servicing rights. As of September 30, 2011, we were servicing $5.43 billion of loans sold to third parties, and the mortgage servicing rights associated with such loans had an amortized cost of $28.9 million and an estimated fair value, at that date, of $40.7 million. Because the estimated life and estimated income from the underlying mortgage loans generally increase with rising interest rates and decrease with falling interest rates, the value of mortgage servicing rights increases as interest rates rise and decreases as interest rates fall. 50 In general, changes in market and competitive interest rates result from events that we do not control and over which we generally have little or no influence. As a result, mitigation of the adverse affects of changing interest rates is generally limited to controlling the composition of the assets and liabilities that we hold. To monitor our positions, we maintain an interest rate risk modeling system which is designed to measure our interest rate risk sensitivity. Additionally, the results of a model to measure interest rate sensitivity have historically (through June 30, 2011) been made available to us by the Association’s primary regulator, although we have been advised the OCC expects to discontinue such modeling after December 31, 2011. Our model, and the model prepared by the Association’s primary regulator, estimate the change in Association’s net portfolio value over a range of interest rate scenarios. Net portfolio value is the discounted present value of expected cash flows from assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet contracts. At September 30, 2011, in the event of an immediate 200 basis point increase in all interest rates, our model projects that we would experience a $423.5 million, or 24%, decrease in net portfolio value. Our internal calculations further project that, at September 30, 2011, in the event of an immediate 200 basis point increase in all interest rates, we would expect our projected net interest income for the twelve months ended September 30, 2012 to decrease by 14.6%. See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” Historically low interest rates may adversely affect our net interest income and profitability. During the past three years it has been the policy of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to maintain interest rates at historically low levels through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. As a result, market rates on the loans we have originated and the yields on securities we have purchased have been at lower levels than available prior to 2008. This has been a significant factor in the decrease in the amount of our interest income to $427.5 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011 from $550.2 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2008. As a general matter, our interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets, which has resulted in increases in net interest income in the short term. Our ability to lower our interest expense is limited at these interest rate levels while the average yield on our interest-earning assets may continue to decrease. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has indicated its intention to maintain low interest rates in the near future. Accordingly, our net interest income (the difference between interest income earned on assets and interest expense paid on liabilities) may continue to be adversely affected and may even decrease, which may have an adverse effect on our profitability. Our ability to reduce interest rate risk has been adversely affected by the fact that the Association no longer sells long-term fixed-rate residential loans to Fannie Mae and we no longer offer home equity lines of credit. Effective July 1, 2010, Fannie Mae, historically the Association’s primary loan investor, promulgated certain loan origination requirement changes affecting loan eligibility that, to date, we have not adopted. Accordingly, the Association’s ability to reduce interest rate risk via our traditional sales of longer-term fixed-rate residential loans is limited until either the Association changes its loan origination processes or Fannie Mae revises its loan eligibility standards. In the absence of such changes, future sales of longer-term fixed-rate mortgage loans will be predominantly limited to those loans that have established payment histories, strong borrower credit profiles, are supported by adequate collateral values and are acceptable to market participants other than Fannie Mae. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011, we sold to Fannie Mae $13.3 million of longer-term fixed-rate residential loans compared to $1.03 billion and $2.22 billion during the fiscal years ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Sales to other market participants totaled $20.3 million during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2010, all sales were to Fannie Mae and none were to other market participants. Because it is no longer selling loans to Fannie Mae, the Association is also generating less non-interest income. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011, we realized net gains on the sale of loans of $490 thousand, compared to net gains on the sale of loans of $25.3 million during the fiscal year ended September 30, 51 2010. The Association’s ability to reduce interest rate risk exposure may be further compromised by its inability to do so using home equity lines of credit, which the Association has not offered since June 2010. While we have been originating SmartRate adjustable-rate mortgages, since July 2010, which have improved interest rate characteristics as compared to long-term fixed-rate mortgages, the production volume of such loans may be insufficient to offset the increased interest rate risk resulting from the Association no longer selling loans to Fannie Mae. Each of the Association, the Company and Third Federal Savings, MHC entered into a memorandum of understanding with the OTS on February 7, 2011 that will entail compliance costs. Failure to comply with the memorandum of understanding could result in formal enforcement action or additional regulatory constraints on the Association, the Company or Third Federal Savings, MHC. Prior to its merger into the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”) on July 21, 2011, the Office of Thrift Supervision (“OTS”) expressed concerns with the risk concentration and other aspects of the Association’s home equity loans and lines of credit portfolio and the administration of that portfolio. Under the terms of an August 13, 2010 memorandum of understanding (the “MOU”) between the Association and the OTS, management prepared, or obtained, and submitted to the OTS: (1) a third party report on our home equity lending portfolio; (2) a home equity lending reduction plan (the “Reduction Plan”); (3) enhanced home equity lending and credit risk management policies and procedures; and (4) an updated business plan. On December 27, 2010, notice was received from the OTS that it did not object to the Reduction Plan. The Reduction Plan spans the period from June 30, 2010 through December 31, 2011. As of September 30, 2011, the Reduction Plan targets (a $1 billion reduction in home equity lending commitments, including a $300 million reduction in outstanding balances) had been met and exceeded as home equity lending commitments had been reduced by $1.18 billion, including $410.6 million in outstanding balances. Other elements of the Reduction Plan include: a $150 million capital infusion from the Company to the Association, which was completed in October, 2010, and implementation of expanded line management, account management and collection processes regarding home equity lending. These process changes continue to be implemented and are in various stages of completion. Further, the ratio of the Association’s home equity loans and lines of credit portfolio and open commitments relative to Tier 1 Capital, plus the allowance for loan losses, was reduced to 247% at September 30, 2011 from 350% at September 30, 2010. The December 31, 2011 targeted ratio as contained in the Reduction Plan is 261%. Effective February 7, 2011, the MOU was terminated and replaced by new memorandums of understanding (the “New MOU”) covering the Association, Third Federal Savings, MHC and the Company. The New MOU addressed the ongoing monitoring of issues raised in the original MOU. In addition, the New MOU required, at various dates through September 30, 2011, the following actions, all of which we have performed: (1) an independent assessment of the Association’s interest rate risk management policy and a plan to address any deficiencies (the assessment was submitted to the OTS on February 14, 2011); (2) an independent review of management compensation (the review was submitted to the OTS on June 30, 2011); (3) the submittal of an independent enterprise risk management study and a plan to address any deficiencies (the study and plan to address deficiencies was submitted to the OTS on February 11, 2011); (4) the submittal for OTS non-objection 45 days in advance of any plans for new debt, dividends or stock repurchases; (5) formal management and director succession plans (these plans were submitted to the OTS on March 30, 2011 and April 29, 2011, respectively); and (6) revisions to various operational policies (each of which has been completed). In a self-initiated effort, and prior to receipt of the New MOU, in September 2010, we engaged a third party to conduct an independent assessment of our interest rate risk management policy and our enterprise risk management approach. As indicated above, just days after receipt of the New MOU, the assessments were submitted to the OTS. As a result of the assessments, we are installing a new interest rate risk model to provide more customized analysis and we have established new board and management level committees to govern and oversee risk management and compliance. As indicated above, we believe that to date, we have complied with all of the stipulations of the MOU and New MOU. The requirements of the MOU and New MOU carry costs to complete which will continue to increase our non-interest expense in amounts that are not expected to, but may, be material to our results of operations. The Company does not intend to declare or pay a cash dividend, or to 52 repurchase any of its outstanding common stock until the concerns of our regulators are resolved. The requirements of the New MOU will remain in effect until our primary regulator decides to terminate, suspend or modify them. Negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets may adversely affect our operations and results. Since the latter half of 2007, negative developments in the global credit and securitization markets have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets and a general economic downturn which has continued into 2011 and, through much of 2010, was accompanied by deteriorated loan portfolio quality at many institutions, including the Company. In addition, the value of real estate collateral supporting many home mortgages has declined and may continue to decline. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. These negative developments along with the turmoil and uncertainties that have accompanied them have heavily influenced the formulation and enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, along with its implications as described elsewhere in this Risk Factors section. In addition to the many future implementing rules and regulations of the Dodd-Frank Act, the potential exists for other new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards to be enacted. Bank regulatory agencies are expected to continue to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations. Negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments, may negatively impact our operations by increasing our costs, restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. In addition, these risks could affect the value of our loan portfolio as well as the value of our investment portfolio, which would also negatively affect our financial performance. The ratings downgrade of the United States Government may adversely affect the Company. In July 2011, certain rating agencies placed the United States government’s long-term sovereign debt rating on their equivalent of negative watch and announced the possibility of a credit rating downgrade. In August 2011, one rating agency deceased its rating of the United States Government to AA+. The rating agencies, due to constraints related to the rating of the United States, also placed government-sponsored enterprises on negative watch. A downgrade of the United States credit rating would trigger a similar downgrade in the credit rating of these government-sponsored enterprises. Furthermore, the credit rating of other entities, such as state and local governments, may be downgraded if the United States’ credit rating is downgraded. The impact that these credit rating downgrades may have on the national and local economy and the Company’s financial condition and results of operations is uncertain. Difficult market conditions have already affected us and our industry and may continue to do so. Our performance is significantly impacted by the general economic conditions in our primary markets in the States of Ohio and Florida, and surrounding areas, which have been severely affected by recent and persisting economic issues. The continuation of difficult market conditions is likely to result in continued high levels of unemployment, which will further weaken an already distressed local economy and could result in additional defaults of mortgage loans. Most of the loans in our loan portfolio are secured by real estate located in our primary market areas. Negative conditions, such as layoffs, in the markets where collateral for a mortgage loan is located could adversely affect a borrower’s ability to repay the loan and the value of the collateral securing the loan. Declines in the U.S. housing market manifested by falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, as well as unemployment and under-employment, have all negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to derivative and traditional securities, in turn, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital from private and government entities, to merge with larger and 53 stronger financial institutions and, in some cases, fail. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by recessionary or impaired recovery conditions that are longer or deeper than expected. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • We already face and we expect to continue to face increased regulation of our industry and compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. • Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future behaviors. • The processes we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure require difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, which may no longer be capable of viable estimation and which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the processes. • Our ability to engage in sales of mortgage loans to third parties (including mortgage loan securitization transactions with governmental entities) on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including deteriorating investor expectations. • Competition in our industry could intensify as a result of increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. Financial reform legislation enacted by Congress in 2010, among other things, eliminated the Office of Thrift Supervision, tightened capital standards, created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and resulted in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. Effective July 21, 2010, Congress enacted the Dodd-Frank Act. This law significantly changed the bank regulatory structure and affected the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act required various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the ultimate impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many years. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act have already impacted the Company. For example, on July 21, 2011, the Office of Thrift Supervision, which was the primary federal regulator for the Company and its subsidiary, the Association, was dissolved, and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which is the primary federal regulator for national banks, became the primary federal regulator for federal thrifts. Also on that date, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“Federal Reserve Board”) assumed supervisory and regulatory responsibilities for all savings and loan holding companies that were formerly regulated by the Office of Thrift Supervision, including the Company. Moreover, Third Federal Savings, MHC now requires the approval of the Federal Reserve Board before it may waive the receipt of any dividends from the Company, and there is no assurance that the Federal Reserve Board will approve future dividend waivers or what conditions it 54 may impose on such waivers. See the next risk factor “—Recently enacted financial reform legislation may have an adverse effect on our ability to pay dividends, which would adversely affect the value of our common stock.” Also effective July 21, 2011 is a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act that eliminated the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this significant change to existing law could have an adverse impact on the Company’s interest expense. The Dodd-Frank Act also broadens the base for Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance assessments. Assessments are based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increased the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor, retroactive to January 1, 2009, and non-interest bearing transaction accounts have unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2013. The Dodd-Frank Act requires publicly traded companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded or not. The Dodd-Frank Act created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. The Dodd-Frank Act also weakens the federal preemption rules that have been applicable for national banks and federal savings associations, and gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce federal consumer protection laws. It is not possible to predict at this time what specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act and the future implementing rules and regulations will have on community banks. However, it is expected that at a minimum they will increase our operating and compliance costs and could increase our interest expense. Recently enacted financial reform legislation may have an adverse effect on our ability to pay dividends, which would adversely affect the value of our common stock. The value of the Company’s common stock is significantly affected by our ability to pay dividends to our public stockholders. The Company’s ability to pay dividends to our stockholders is subject to the ability of the Association to make capital distributions to the Company, and also to the availability of cash at the holding company level in the event earnings are not sufficient to pay dividends. Moreover, our ability to pay dividends and the amount of such dividends is affected by the ability of Third Federal Savings, MHC, our mutual holding company, to waive the receipt of dividends declared by the Company. Federal regulations require Third Federal Savings, MHC to notify the FRB of any proposed waiver of its receipt of dividends from the Company. The OTS, the previous regulator for Third Federal Savings, MHC, allowed dividend waivers provided the mutual holding company’s board of directors determined that the waiver was consistent with its fiduciary duties and the waiver would not be detrimental to the safety and soundness of its subsidiary institution. In February 2008, the Company declared its first quarterly dividend and continued to declare and pay quarterly dividends through May 2010, when the Company suspended future dividend payments until concerns expressed by OTS regarding the Association’s home equity line of credit portfolio were satisfactorily resolved. Prior to the suspension of the dividends, Third Federal Savings, MHC waived its right to receive each dividend paid by the Company. The FRB has recently issued an interim final rule pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, providing that the FRB “may not” object to dividend waivers by grandfathered mutual holding 55 companies, such as Third Federal Savings, MHC, under standards substantially similar to those previously required by the OTS. However, the interim final rule added a requirement that a majority of the mutual holding company’s members eligible to vote must approve a dividend waiver by a mutual holding company within 12 months prior to the declaration of the dividend being waived. The FRB is reviewing comments on the interim final rule as part of its rulemaking process and it is expected that a final rule regarding mutual holding company dividend waivers will be implemented in 2012. While Third Federal Savings, MHC believes that the FRB does not have the authority to require a member vote to approve mutual holding company dividend waivers, there can be no assurance that the final rule will not require such a member vote. Changes in laws and regulations and the cost of compliance with new laws and regulations may adversely affect our operations and our income. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve Board, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on a bank’s operations, reclassify assets, determine the adequacy of a bank’s allowance for loan losses and determine the level of deposit insurance premiums assessed. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws and applicable regulations are subject to frequent change. Any change in these regulations and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, new regulations or legislation or additional deposit insurance premiums could have a material impact on our operations. In response to the financial crisis, Congress has taken actions that are intended to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in financial institutions, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has taken actions to increase insurance coverage on deposit accounts. In addition, there have been proposals made by members of Congress and others that would reduce the amount delinquent borrowers are otherwise contractually obligated to pay under their mortgage loans and limit an institution’s ability to foreclose on mortgage collateral. A number of the largest mortgage lenders in the United States previously voluntarily suspended all foreclosures due to document verification deficiencies. The potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations, or changes in policy, affecting lending and funding practices and liquidity standards. Moreover, bank regulatory agencies have been active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, and have issued many formal enforcement orders requiring capital ratios in excess of regulatory requirements. Bank regulatory agencies, such as the Federal Reserve Board, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors, and not for the protection or benefit of potential investors. In addition, new laws and regulations may increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business, and otherwise affect our operations. New laws and regulations may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, the fees we can charge and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Loans originated through our Home Today program have higher delinquency rates than the remainder of our loan portfolio. Prior to March 27, 2009, we offered loans through our Home Today program with our standard terms to borrowers who might not otherwise qualify for such loans. To qualify for our Home Today program, a borrower must complete financial management education and counseling and must be referred to us by a sponsoring organization with which we have partnered as part of the program and must meet a minimum credit score threshold. Because we applied less stringent underwriting and credit standards to these loans, loans originated under the Home Today program prior to March 27, 2009 have greater credit risk than traditional residential real estate mortgage loans. As of September 30, 2011, we had $264.0 million of outstanding loans that were 56 originated through our Home Today program, 30.1% of which were delinquent 30 days or more, compared to 2.1% for our portfolio of non-Home Today loans as of that date. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011, we incurred net charge-offs of $6.8 million, (2.51% of the average balance of Home Today loans) on loans originated through our Home Today program, compared to $17.5 million, (0.26% of the average balance of non-Home Today loans) of net charge-offs for our non-Home Today portfolio. Effective March 27, 2009, the Home Today underwriting guidelines are substantially the same as those for our traditional mortgage product. Any future increases in FDIC insurance premiums or FDIC special assessments will adversely impact our earnings. On May 22, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule levying a five basis point special assessment on each insured depository institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. As a result of this special assessment we recorded an expense of $4.8 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2009. On November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule that imposed a prepayment of deposit insurance assessments that institutions would otherwise be expected to pay for calendar years 2010 through 2012. As a result of this final rule, the Association remitted a prepayment of $51.9 million to the FDIC on December 30, 2009. The prepayment requirement does not preclude the FDIC from imposing future special assessments, from changing assessment rates or from revising the risk-based assessment system, pursuant to the existing notice-and-comment rulemaking framework. Pursuant to a stipulation of the Dodd-Frank Act, effective April 1, 2011, the assessment base used by the FDIC for the purpose of determining the amount of each insured depository institution’s deposit insurance premium was revised to reflect each institution’s total assets minus Tier 1 capital. In addition, the FDIC now imposes a separate assessment methodology for large (with assets exceeding $10 billion) institutions. Should the FDIC find it necessary to impose additional special assessments or further increase assessment rates, our FDIC general insurance premium expense will increase substantially compared to prior periods. Hurricanes or other adverse weather events could negatively affect the economy in our Florida market area or cause disruptions to our branch office locations, which could have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. A significant portion of our operations are conducted in the State of Florida, a geographic region with coastal areas that are susceptible to hurricanes and tropical storms. Such weather events can disrupt our operations, result in damage to our branch office locations and negatively affect the local economy in which we operate. We cannot predict whether or to what extent damage caused by future hurricanes or tropical storms will affect our operations or the economy in our market area, but such weather events could result in fewer loan originations and greater delinquencies, foreclosures or loan losses. These and other negative effects of future hurricanes or tropical storms may adversely affect our business or results of operations. Strong competition within our market areas may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market areas, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, money market funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Some of our competitors have greater name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business, and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do. Troubled financial institutions may significantly increase the interest rates paid to depositors in pursuit of retail deposits when wholesale funding sources are not available to them. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market areas. For additional information see PART 1 Item 1. Business—THIRD FEDERAL SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATION OF CLEVELAND—Competition. 57 Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption, or breach in security or operational integrity of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption, or security breach of our information systems, we cannot assure you that any such failures, interruptions, or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions, or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 