ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other information presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Some of the following risks relate principally to the Company’s business and the industry in which it operates, while others relate principally to the Transaction. RISKS TO THE INDUSTRIES AND BUSINESSES OF THE COMPANY The pulp, paper and wood product industries are highly cyclical. Fluctuations in the prices of and the demand for the Company’s products could result in smaller profit margins and lower sales volumes. The pulp, paper and wood product industries are highly cyclical. Historically, economic and market shifts, fluctuations in capacity and changes in foreign currency exchange rates have created cyclical changes in prices, sales volume and margins for the Company’s products. The length and magnitude of industry cycles have varied over time and by product, but generally reflect changes in macroeconomic conditions and levels of industry capacity. Most of the Company’s paper products are commodities that are widely available from other producers. Even the Company’s non-commodity products, such as value-added papers, are susceptible to commodity dynamics. Because commodity products have few distinguishing qualities from producer to producer, competition for these products is based primarily on price, which is determined by supply relative to demand. The overall levels of demand for the products the Company manufactures and distributes, and consequently its sales and profitability, reflect fluctuations in levels of end-user demand, which depend in part on general macroeconomic conditions in North America and worldwide, as well as competition from electronic substitution. See—“Some of the Company’s products are vulnerable to long-term declines in demand due to competing technologies or materials.” For example, demand for cut-size office paper may fluctuate with levels of white-collar employment. Demand for many such products was materially and negatively impacted by the global economic downturn, among other things, in the early part of this decade, and the Company expects that it will be susceptible to such downturns in the future. Industry supply of pulp, paper and wood products is also subject to fluctuation, as changing industry conditions can influence producers to idle or permanently close individual machines or entire mills. Such closures can result in significant cash and/or non-cash charges. In addition, to avoid substantial cash costs in connection with idling or closing a mill, some producers will choose to continue to operate at a loss, sometimes even a cash loss, which could prolong weak pricing environments due to oversupply. Oversupply can also result from producers introducing new capacity in response to favorable short-term pricing trends. Industry supply of pulp, paper and wood products is also influenced by overseas production capacity, which has grown in recent years and is expected to continue to grow. While the weakness of the U.S. dollar has mitigated the levels of imports in recent years, imports of pulp, paper and wood products from overseas may increase, putting downward pressure on prices. As a result, prices for all of the Company’s products are driven by many factors outside of its control, and it has little influence over the timing and extent of price changes, which are often volatile. Because market conditions beyond the Company’s control determine the prices for its commodity products, the price for any one or more of these products may fall below its cash production costs, requiring the Company to either incur cash losses on product sales or cease production at one or more of its manufacturing facilities. The Company continues to evaluate potential adjustments to its production capacity, which may include additional closures of machines or entire mills, and the Company could recognize significant cash and/or non-cash charges relating to any such closures in future periods. Therefore, the Company’s profitability with respect to these products depends on managing its cost structure, particularly wood fiber, chemical and energy costs, which represent the largest components of its operating costs and can fluctuate based upon factors beyond its control, as described below. If the prices of or demand for its products decline, or if its wood fiber, chemical or energy costs increase, or both, its sales and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. 20 Some of the Company’s products are vulnerable to long-term declines in demand due to competing technologies or materials. The Company’s business competes with electronic transmission and document storage alternatives, as well as with paper grades it does not produce, such as uncoated groundwood. As a result of such competition, the Company has experienced decreased demand for some of its existing pulp and paper products. As the use of these alternatives grows, demand for pulp and paper products is likely to further decline. Moreover, demand for some of the Company’s wood products may decline if customers purchase alternatives products. The Company faces intense competition in its markets, and the failure to compete effectively would have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations. The Company competes with both U.S. and Canadian paper producers and, for many of its product lines, global producers, some of which may have greater financial resources and lower production costs than the Company. The principal basis for competition is selling price. The Company’s ability to maintain satisfactory margins depends in large part on its ability to control its costs. The Company cannot assure you that it can compete effectively and maintain current levels of sales and profitability. If the Company cannot compete effectively, such failure will have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations. The Company’s intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of its products and its brands. The Company relies on patent, trademark, and other intellectual property laws of the United States and other countries to protect its intellectual property rights. However, the Company may be unable to prevent third parties from using its respective intellectual property without its authorization, which may reduce any competitive advantage it has developed. If the Company had to litigate to protect these rights, any proceedings could be costly, and it may not prevail. The Company cannot guarantee that any United States or foreign patents, issued or pending, will provide it with any competitive advantage or will not be challenged by third parties. Additionally, the Company has obtained and applied for United States and foreign trademark registrations, and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional service marks and trademarks, as appropriate. The Company cannot guarantee that any of its pending patent or trademark applications will be approved by the applicable governmental authorities and, even if the applications are approved, third parties may seek to oppose or otherwise challenge these registrations. The failure to secure any pending patent or trademark applications may limit the Company’s ability to protect the intellectual property rights that these applications were intended to cover. The Company’s manufacturing businesses may have difficulty obtaining wood fiber at favorable prices, or at all. Wood fiber is the principal raw material used by the Company, comprising approximately 19% of the aggregate amount of cost of sales during 2007. Wood fiber is a commodity, and prices historically have been cyclical. The primary source for wood fiber is timber. Environmental litigation and regulatory developments have caused, and may cause in the future, significant reductions in the amount of timber available for commercial harvest in the United States and Canada. In addition, future domestic or foreign legislation and litigation concerning the use of timberlands, the protection of endangered species, the promotion of forest health and the response to and prevention of catastrophic wildfires could also affect timber supplies. Availability of harvested timber maybe further limited by fire, insect infestation, disease, ice storms, wind storms, flooding and other natural and man made causes, thereby reducing supply and increasing prices. Wood fiber pricing is subject to regional market influences, and the Company’s cost of wood fiber may increase in particular regions due to market shifts in those regions. Any sustained increase in wood fiber prices would increase the Company’s operating costs, and the Company may be unable to increase prices for its products in response to increased wood fiber costs due to additional factors affecting the demand or supply of these products. The Province of Quebec adopted legislation, which became effective April 1, 2005, that reduced allowable wood-harvesting volumes by an average of 20% on public lands and 25% on territories covered by an agreement 21 between the Government of Quebec and the Cree First Nations. As a result, the amount of fiber, primarily softwood fiber, the Company is permitted to harvest annually, under its existing licenses from the Quebec government, was reduced by approximately 500,000 cubic meters to approximately 1.8 million cubic meters, reflecting a 21% reduction. The Chief Forester of Quebec has proposed a further reduction of 55,000 cubic meters, or 3%, of the total softwood annual allowable cut of forests managed by the Company. The reduction will be effective from April 2008 to March 2009 and would significantly affect the supply of fiber for the Company’s Northern Quebec softwood sawmill and market pulp operations. In addition, on October 1, 2007 Domtar Inc. received written notice from the Minister of Natural Resources and Wildlife for the province of Quebec purporting to revoke, effective September 14, 2007, Domtar Inc.’s forest license rights relating to its Grand Remous and Malartic sawmills representing approximately 567,000 cubic meters of fiber on an annual basis. While we are currently seeking the reinstatement of these license rights through formal legal proceedings, there is no assurance that we will be successful and we may lose these forest license rights permanently. The reduction in harvest volume would also result in a corresponding increase in the unit cost of wood delivered to the sawmills. In addition, as a result of the impact of the strength of the Canadian dollar against the U.S. dollar, low lumber prices and other factors, a significant portion of the Company’s wood fiber harvesting operations in Quebec have been shut down and all but two, Val d’Or and Matagami, of the facilities related to such operations have been closed indefinitely. As a result of the reduced availability, the Company may face increased costs in purchasing, and have difficulty locating wood fiber sufficient to satisfy its requirements. Historically, Weyerhaeuser provided, on average, approximately 45% of the Weyerhaeuser Fine Paper Business’ wood fiber requirements, which is approximately 19% of the Company’s wood fiber requirements. The Company currently obtains its wood fiber requirements in part by harvesting timber pursuant to its forest licenses and forest management agreements, in part by purchasing wood fiber from Weyerhaeuser pursuant to the fiber and pulp supply agreements entered into in connection with the Transaction, which expire between 2008 and 2027, and in part by purchasing wood fiber from third parties. If the Company’s cutting rights, pursuant to its forest licenses or forest management agreements, are reduced or if Weyerhaeuser or any third-party supplier of wood fiber stops selling or is unable to sell wood fiber to the Company, its financial condition and operating could be materially and adversely affected. An increase in the cost of the Company’s purchased energy or chemicals would lead to higher manufacturing costs, thereby reducing its margins. The Company’s operations consume substantial amounts of energy such as electricity, natural gas, fuel oil, coal and hog fuel. Energy comprised approximately 8% of the aggregate amount of cost of sales in 2007. Energy prices, particularly for electricity, natural gas and fuel oil, have been volatile in recent years and currently exceed historical averages. As a result, fluctuations in energy prices will impact the Company’s manufacturing costs and contribute to earnings volatility. While the Company purchases substantial portions of its energy under supply contracts, many of these contracts are based on market pricing. Other raw materials the Company uses include various chemical compounds, such as precipitated calcium carbonate, sodium chlorate and sodium hydroxide, sulfuric acid, dyes, peroxide, methanol and aluminum sulfate. Purchases of chemicals comprised approximately 12% of the aggregate amount of cost of sales in 2007. The costs of these chemicals have been volatile historically, and are influenced by capacity utilization, energy prices and other factors beyond the Company’s control. Chemical prices have been increasing although the impact has been partially mitigated by long term purchasing contracts that reflect our increased purchasing power. Due to the commodity nature of the Company’s products, the relationship between industry supply and demand for these products, rather than changes in the cost of raw materials, will determine the Company’s ability to increase prices. Consequently, the Company may be unable to pass on increases in its operating costs to its customers. Any sustained increase in chemical or energy prices without any corresponding increase in product pricing would reduce the Company’s operating margins and potentially require it to limit or cease operations of one or more of its machines. 22 The Company could experience disruptions in operations and/or increased labor costs due to labor disputes. Employees at 44 of the Company’s facilities, a majority of the Company’s 13,000 employees, are represented by unions through collective bargaining agreements, generally on a facility-by-facility basis, which will expire between 2008 and 2012. Currently six collective bargaining agreements are up for renegotiation of which only three are currently under negotiation. The Company may not be able to negotiate acceptable new collective bargaining agreements, which could result in strikes or work stoppages or other labor disputes by affected workers. Renewal of collective bargaining agreements could also result in higher wages or benefits paid to union members. In addition, labor organizing activities could occur at any of the Company’s facilities. Therefore, the Company could experience a disruption of its operations or higher ongoing labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on its business and financial condition. In connection with the Company’s restructuring efforts, the Company has suspended operations at, or closed or announced its intention to close, various facilities and may incur liability with respect to affected employees, which could have a material adverse effect on its business or financial condition. In addition, the Company continues to evaluate potential adjustments to its production capacity, which may include additional closures of machines or entire mills, and the Company could recognize significant cash and/or non-cash charges relating to any such closures in the future. In the early part of 2006, Weyerhaeuser closed its pulp and paper mill in Prince Albert, Saskatchewan, which the Company acquired in the Transaction, which remains closed. Certain unionized parties filed a grievance against Weyerhaeuser following the shut down, alleging that certain post-closure actions taken by Weyerhaeuser violated their collective bargaining agreement. In particular, the union disputed Weyerhaeuser’s post-closure contracting with a third-party vendor to oversee on-site security at Prince Albert. In connection with the Transaction, the Company has assumed any liability with respect to this grievance. In November 2007, the Company was informed that the Government of Saskatchewan was not prepared to participate in the financing and redevelopment of the Prince Albert facility into a Northern Bleached Softwood Kraft pulp mill producing 100% Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certified softwood pulp for the North America and offshore markets, as set forth in the memorandum of understanding signed on September 12, 2007. As such, the Company has not determined whether this facility will be reopened, sold or closed. In a separate grievance related to the closure of the Prince Albert facility, which could result in liability in excess of $20 million, the union is claiming that it is entitled to the accumulated pension benefits during the actual layoff period because, according to the union, a majority of employees retained still had recall rights during the layoff. The Company is currently evaluating its position with respect to these grievances and cannot be certain that it will not incur liability, which could be material, with respect to these grievances. The Company relies heavily on a small number of significant customers, including one customer that represented approximately 10% of the Company’s sales in 2007. A loss of any of these significant customers could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. The Company heavily relies on a small number of significant customers. The Company’s largest customer is Office Depot. Office Depot was historically a major customer of the Weyerhaeuser Fine Paper Business and Willamette Industries. A significant reduction in sales to any of the Company’s key customers, including Office Depot (which could be due to factors outside its control, such as purchasing diversification) or financial difficulties experienced by these customers, could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. A material disruption at one of the Company’s manufacturing facilities could prevent it from meeting customer demand, reduce its sales and/or negatively impact its net income. Any of the Company’s pulp or paper manufacturing facilities, or any of its machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including: • unscheduled maintenance outages; • prolonged power failures; 23 • equipment failure; • chemical spill or release; • explosion of a boiler; • the effect of a drought or reduced rainfall on its water supply; • labor difficulties; • disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including roads, bridges, railroad tracks and tunnels; • fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes or other catastrophes; • terrorism or threats of terrorism; or • other operational problems, including those resulting from the risks described in this section. Events such as those listed above have resulted in operating losses in the past. In May 2006, the Weyerhaeuser Fine Paper Business facilities in Plymouth, North Carolina experienced a disruption in their power supply, causing damage to a turbine generator necessary to convert high pressure steam to medium and low pressure steam used by the various mill processes. As a result of this damage, various mill operations at the Weyerhaeuser Fine Paper Business’s Plymouth facilities were shut down for repairs for up to eleven days. The Company estimates the total financial impact of this incident on its operating income was $11 million including repair costs, the opportunity value of lost production and increased operating costs. Future events may cause similar shutdowns, which may result in additional downtime and/or cause additional damage to the Company’s facilities. Any such downtime or facility damage could prevent the Company from meeting customer demand for its products and/or require it to make unplanned capital expenditures. If one of these machines or facilities were to incur significant downtime, the Company’s ability to meet its production targets and satisfy customer requirements would be impaired, resulting in lower sales and income. The Company’s operations require substantial capital, and it may not have adequate capital resources to provide for all of its capital requirements. The Company’s businesses are capital intensive and require that it regularly incur capital expenditures in order to maintain its equipment, increase its operating efficiency and comply with environmental laws. In 2007, the Company’s total capital expenditures were approximately $116 million, including approximately $65 million for maintenance capital and approximately $11 million for environmental expenditures. The Company’s total capital expenditures in 2006 were approximately $64 million, including approximately $62 million for maintenance capital and approximately $2 million for environmental expenditures. If the Company’s available cash resources and cash generated from operations are not sufficient to fund its operating needs and capital expenditures, the Company would have to obtain additional funds from borrowings or other available sources or reduce or delay its capital expenditures. The Company may not be able to obtain additional funds on favorable terms, or at all. In addition, the Company’s debt service obligations will reduce its available cash flows. If the Company cannot maintain or upgrade its equipment as it requires or allocate funds to ensure environmental compliance, it could be required to curtail or cease some of its manufacturing operations, or it may become unable to manufacture products that compete effectively in one or more of its product lines. The Company could incur substantial costs as a result of compliance with, violations of or liabilities under applicable environmental laws and regulations. It could also incur costs as a result of asbestos-related personal injury litigation. The Company is subject, in both the United States and Canada, to a wide range of general and industry-specific laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and natural resources, including those governing air emissions, wastewater discharges, harvesting, silvicultural activities, the storage, management and 24 disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, landfill operation and closure obligations, forestry operations and endangered species habitat, and health and safety matters. In particular, the pulp and paper industry in the United States is subject to the United States Environmental Protection Agency’s (“EPA”) Cluster Rule and was until recently subject to the EPA’s Boiler MACT Rule (the Boiler MACT Rule has been vacated, however, alternative U.S. federal and state regulations are being discussed) that further regulate effluent and air emissions. These laws and regulations require the Company to obtain authorizations from and comply with the requirements of the appropriate governmental authorities, which have considerable discretion over the terms and timing of permits. The Company has incurred, and expects that it will continue to incur, significant capital, operating and other expenditures complying with applicable environmental laws and regulations as a result of remedial obligations. The Company incurred approximately $85 million of operating expenses and $11 million of capital expenditures in connection with environmental compliance and remediation for 2007. As of December 30, 2007, the Company had a provision of $119 million for environmental expenditures, including certain asset retirement obligations (such as for land fill capping and asbestos removal). In addition, during the first half of 2006, the Company closed its pulp and paper mill in Prince Albert, Saskatchewan and the Big River Sawmill in Saskatchewan. The Company has not determined whether either of these facilities will be reopened, sold or permanently closed. In the event the facilities are permanently closed, the Province of Saskatchewan may require active decommissioning and reclamation at one or both facilities, which would likely include investigation and remedial action for areas of significant environmental impacts. The Province of Saskatchewan has required certain facilities located in the Province to submit preliminary decommissioning and reclamation plans and to include in such plans estimates of costs associated with decommissioning and reclamation activities. Weyerhaeuser submitted such a plan for its pulp and paper facility in Prince Albert, Saskatchewan. In its preliminary decommissioning and reclamation plan, Weyerhaeuser included a preliminary, generalized estimate of costs ranging from CDN$20 to CDN$25 million (approximately $20 to $25 million). Weyerhaeuser advised the Province of Saskatchewan that it was not providing a detailed delineation of costs at this time because such costs will depend on site specific factors, the professional judgments of environmental specialists and experts, further detailed environmental site assessments, and most fundamentally, a decision about the future use or closure of the site. The estimate referred to above does not take into account the equipment resale value or scrap material value which is considered to be significant, nor does it include the cost of completing a phase II environmental site assessment (which could involve sampling and analysis of building materials and environmental media), or the cost of any remediation required based on such assessment. The Company has not undertaken an in depth review of Weyerhaeuser’s estimate and the net decommissioning and reclamation costs could exceed Weyerhaeuser’s estimate. The Company also could incur substantial costs, such as civil or criminal fines, sanctions and enforcement actions (including orders limiting its operations or requiring corrective measures, installation of pollution control equipment or other remedial actions), cleanup and closure costs, and third-party claims for property damage and personal injury as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws and regulations. The Company’s ongoing efforts to identify potential environmental concerns that may be associated with its past and present properties will lead to future environmental investigations. Those efforts will likely result in the determination of additional environmental costs and liabilities which cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. As the owner and operator of real estate, the Company may be liable under environmental laws for cleanup, closure and other damages resulting from the presence and release of hazardous substances, including asbestos, on or from its properties or operations. The amount and timing of environmental expenditures is difficult to predict, and, in some cases, the Company’s liability may be imposed without regard to contribution or to whether it knew of, or caused, the release of hazardous substances and may exceed forecasted amounts or the value of the property itself. The discovery of additional contamination or the imposition of additional cleanup obligations at the Company’s or third-party sites may result in significant additional costs. Any material liability the Company incurs could adversely impact its financial condition or preclude it from making capital expenditures that would otherwise benefit its business. 25 In addition, the Company may be subject to asbestos-related personal injury litigation arising out of exposure to asbestos on or from its properties or operations, and may incur substantial costs as a result of any defense, settlement, or adverse judgment in such litigation. The Company may not have access to insurance proceeds to cover costs associated with asbestos-related personal injury litigation. Enactment of new environmental laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations, or interpretation thereof, might require significant expenditures. The Company may be unable to generate funds or other sources of liquidity and capital to fund environmental liabilities or expenditures. The Company is affected by changes in currency exchange rates. The Company manufactures a significant amount of pulp and paper in Canada. Sales of pulp and paper products by the Company’s Canadian mills will be invoiced in U.S. dollars or in Canadian dollars linked to U.S. pricing but most of the costs relating to these products will be incurred in Canadian dollars. As a result, any decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the Canadian dollar will reduce the Company’s profitability. Exchange rate fluctuations are beyond the Company’s control. Since January 1, 2002, the Canadian dollar has appreciated more than 60% relative to the U.S. dollar. This has had a material adverse effect on the sales and profitability of the Canadian operations of both the Predecessor and Domtar Inc. and is continuing to have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial results and financial condition. The Company may be required to pay significant lumber export taxes and/or countervailing and antidumping duties. The Company may experience reduced revenues and margins on its softwood lumber business as a result of lumber export taxes and/or countervailing and antidumping duty applications. In April 2001, the Coalition for Fair Lumber Imports (“Coalition”) filed two petitions with the U.S. Department of Commerce (“Department”) and the International Trade Commission (“ITC”) claiming that production of softwood lumber in Canada was being subsidized by Canada and that imports from Canada were being “dumped” into the U.S. market (sold at less than fair value). The Coalition asked that countervailing duty (“CVD”) and antidumping (“AD”) tariffs be imposed on softwood lumber imported from Canada. In 2006, the Canadian and U.S. governments reached a final settlement to this long-standing dispute. The provisions of the settlement included repayment of approximately 81% of the deposits, imposition of export measures in Canada, and measures to address long-term policy reform. It is possible that the CVD and AD tariffs or tariffs similar to the CVD and AD tariffs may again be imposed on the Company, in the future. Under the settlement agreement, Canadian softwood lumber exporters pay an export tax when the price of lumber is at or below a threshold price. Under present market conditions, the Company’s softwood lumber exports are subject to a 5% export charge plus a market restriction on access managed by a quota system. The Company experienced and may continue to experience reduced revenues and margins in the softwood lumber business as a result of the application of the settlement agreement. The settlement agreement could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial results and financial condition, including, but not limited to, facility closures or impairment of assets. The Company depends on third parties for transportation services. The Company relies primarily on third parties for transportation of the products it manufactures and/or distributes, as well as delivery of its raw materials. In particular, a significant portion of the goods it 26 manufactures and raw materials it uses are transported by railroad or trucks, which are highly regulated. If any of its third-party transportation providers were to fail to deliver the goods the Company manufactures or distributes in a timely manner, the Company may be unable to sell those products at full value, or at all. Similarly, if any of these providers were to fail to deliver raw materials to the Company in a timely manner, it may be unable to manufacture its products in response to customer demand. In addition, if any of these third parties were to cease operations or cease doing business with the Company, it may be unable to replace them at reasonable cost. Any failure of a third-party transportation provider to deliver raw materials or finished products in a timely manner could harm the Company’s reputation, negatively impact its customer relationships and have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and operating results. The transition services provided by Weyerhaeuser may be difficult for the Company to replace without operational problems and additional costs. The Company entered into a transition services agreement with Weyerhaeuser pursuant to which Weyerhaeuser agreed to provide the Company certain transition services for a period of time following the Closing Date. These services include, among others, certain services relating to finance and administration, human resources, payroll and information technology. If, after the expiration of the agreement, the Company is unable to perform these services or replace them in a timely manner or on terms and conditions as favorable as those the Company receives from Weyerhaeuser, the Company may experience operational problems and an increase in its costs. In addition, the cost for such services may be higher than the cost for such services when the Weyerhaeuser Fine Paper Business was operated as part of Weyerhaeuser. See “Risks related to the transaction—The historical financial information of the Predecessor may not be representative of its results if the Weyerhaeuser Fine Paper Business had been operated independently of Weyerhaeuser and, as a result, may not be a reliable indicator of its future results.” At December 30, 2007, the transition services agreement for both human resources and payroll services as well as finance and administration had been terminated as all activities related to those agreements had been successfully transferred to the Company. As a result of the separation of the Weyerhaeuser Fine Paper Business from Weyerhaeuser, the Company may experience increased costs resulting from decreased purchasing power, which could decrease its overall profitability. Prior to its separation from Weyerhaeuser, the Predecessor was able to take advantage of Weyerhaeuser’s size and reputation in procuring raw materials and other goods and services used both for the Predecessor and Weyerhaeuser’s other businesses. As an independent public company, the Company may be unable to obtain similar goods, services and technology at prices or on terms as favorable as those obtained by the Predecessor prior to its separation from Weyerhaeuser. The Company has liabilities with respect to its pension plans and the actual cost of its pension plan obligations could exceed current provisions. As of December 30, 2007, the Company’s defined benefit plans had a surplus of $38 million on certain plans and a deficit of $185 million on others on a ongoing basis. The Company’s future funding obligations for the defined benefit pension plans depend upon changes to the level of benefits provided by the plans, the future performance of assets set aside in trusts for these plans, the level of interest rates used to determine minimum funding levels, actuarial data and experience, and any changes in government laws and regulations. As of December 30, 2007, the Company’s Canadian defined benefit pension funds had approximately CDN$1,491 million (approximately $1,509 million) of assets, of which approximately CDN$445 million (approximately $450 million) is held by Domtar Inc.’s Canadian pension funds, invested in multiple third party asset backed commercial paper (“ABCP”) conduits, which are currently subject to restructuring or repayment delay, and of which CDN$389 million (approximately $393 million) is subject to the interim arrangement of the “Montreal Proposal” pursuant to which banks and major investors are negotiating restructuring proposals with respect to certain ABCP conduits; however, these discussions are not finalized, and the outcome and the effect it would have on the value of the Company’s Canadian pension fund assets has yet to be determined. 27 Losses in the pension fund investments, if any, would result in future increased contributions by the Company or its Canadian subsidiaries. Additional contributions to these pension funds would be required to be paid over a 5-year period. Losses, if any, would also impact operating results over a longer period of time and immediately increase liabilities and reduce equity. RISKS RELATED TO THE TRANSACTION The Company may not realize anticipated synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities from the Transaction. The success of the Transaction depends, in part, on the Company’s ability to realize the anticipated synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities from integrating the Weyerhaeuser Fine Paper Business with the Domtar Inc. business. The Company’s success in realizing these synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities, and the timing of this realization, depends on the successful integration of such businesses and operations. Even if the Company is able to integrate such businesses and operations successfully, there can be no assurance that this integration will result in the realization of the full benefits of synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities that the Company expects from this integration or that these benefits will be achieved within the anticipated time frame. For example, the elimination of duplicative costs may not be possible or may take longer than anticipated, or the benefits from the Transaction may be offset by the loss of Weyerhaeuser’s purchasing power or the costs incurred in integrating the businesses and operations. The Company incurred and expects to continue to incur significant costs related to the Transaction that could have a material adverse effect on its operating results. The Company incurred financial, legal and accounting costs and sales and transfer taxes in connection with the Transaction. In addition, the Company estimates that it will incur costs in connection with the separation of the Weyerhaeuser Fine Paper Business from Weyerhaeuser. The Company also anticipates that it will incur significant costs in connection with the integration of the Weyerhaeuser Fine Paper Business and the Domtar Inc. business, including, among other things, costs relating to information technology integration, severance costs and the potential write-down of assets, which cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. These costs may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s cash flows and operating results in the periods in which they are recorded. The historical financial information of the Predecessor may not be representative of its results if the Weyerhaeuser Fine Paper Business had been operated independently of Weyerhaeuser and, as a result, may not be a reliable indicator of its future results. Prior to the Closing Date, the Predecessor was a fully integrated business unit of Weyerhaeuser. Consequently, the financial information of the Predecessor included in this document has been derived from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of Weyerhaeuser and reflects assumptions and allocations made by Weyerhaeuser. The financial position, results of operations and cash flows of the Predecessor presented may be different from those that would have resulted had the Predecessor been operated independently. For example, in preparing the Predecessor financial statements, Weyerhaeuser has made an appropriate allocation of costs and expenses that are attributable to the Predecessor. However, these costs and expenses reflect the costs and expenses attributable to the Predecessor operated as part of a larger organization and do not reflect costs and expenses that would be incurred by this business had it been operated independently. As a result, the historical financial information of the Predecessor may not be a reliable indicator of future results. Material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting could result in a material misstatement of our financial condition. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. Management of the Company identified the following material weaknesses as of April 1, 2007, which were remediated as of December 30, 2007. 28 The Company did not maintain effective controls over the completeness and accuracy of financial information produced under the transition services agreement with Weyerhaeuser. Specifically, the Company did not have controls designed and in place to ensure that financial data regarding the Predecessor was complete, accurate, produced on a timely basis and supported with appropriate documentation. Further, the Company did not maintain an appropriate accounting and financial reporting organizational structure, specifically relating to the depth of resources, to be able to ensure that the accounting records being maintained by Weyerhaeuser under the transition services agreement were accurate and complete. The financial data produced under the transition services agreement affects substantially all balance sheet and income statement accounts. These control deficiencies resulted in adjustments to the interim financial statements as of and for the thirteen week period ended April 1, 2007 and a delay in the filing of the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for that period. Aboriginal interests may delay or result in challenges to the transfer of certain forest licenses and forest management agreements. Under applicable forestry legislation in Saskatchewan, Weyerhaeuser must obtain consent from the Government of Saskatchewan in order to complete the transfer of certain timber rights in Saskatchewan to the Company. Pursuant to the agreements governing the Transaction, the transfer of these timber rights were delayed until the appropriate approvals are received. Recent Supreme Court of Canada decisions have confirmed that the federal and provincial governments in Canada have a duty to consult with, and in certain circumstances, seek to accommodate aboriginal groups whenever there is a reasonable prospect that a government’s decision may adversely affect an aboriginal group’s interests in relevant land and resources that are the subject of the decision. The Company believes that the Government of Saskatchewan has consulted with relevant aboriginal groups in connection with these consent approvals. This consultation process could result in delays, constrain access to the timber or give rise to additional costs. In addition, if the Government of Saskatchewan does not adequately discharge its obligation this could result in litigation. It is not possible at present to predict the risks associated with such litigation. If the distribution by Weyerhaeuser of its shares of Company common stock to the holders of Weyerhaeuser common shares and Weyerhaeuser exchangeable shares pursuant to an exchange offer (“Distribution”) did not constitute a tax-free transaction, either as a result of actions taken in connection with the distribution or as a result of subsequent acquisitions of shares of Company common stock, then the Company may be responsible for payment of substantial U.S. federal income taxes under its tax sharing agreement with Weyerhaeuser. Weyerhaeuser received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service on February 5, 2007 to the effect that, based on the facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings set forth in the ruling, the Contribution and Distribution qualified as tax-free to Weyerhaeuser and the holders of Weyerhaeuser common shares for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 368 and related provisions of the Code. The Distribution would become taxable to Weyerhaeuser pursuant to Section 355(e) of the Code if 50% or more (by vote or value) of equity securities of the Company were acquired, directly or indirectly, by persons other than Weyerhaeuser shareholders as part of a plan or series of related transactions that included the Distribution. Because Weyerhaeuser shareholders owned more than 50% of Company common stock following the Arrangement, the Arrangement, by itself, would not have caused the Distribution to be taxable to Weyerhaeuser under Section 355(e) of the Code. However, if the IRS were to determine that other acquisitions of Company equity securities, either before or after the Distribution and the Arrangement, were part of a plan or series of related transactions that included the Distribution such determination could result in the recognition of a gain by Weyerhaeuser under Section 355(e) of the Code. In such case, the gain recognized by Weyerhaeuser likely would include the entire fair market value of the Company common stock distributed to Weyerhaeuser’s shareholders, and thus would be substantial. 29 Under the tax sharing agreement among Weyerhaeuser, the Company, and Domtar Inc., the Company generally would be required to indemnify Weyerhaeuser against tax-related losses to Weyerhaeuser and/or its shareholders that arise as a result of certain actions taken or omissions to act by the Company, its subsidiaries or certain affiliates of the Company (“Disqualifying Actions”) after the Transaction. See “Risks related to the transaction—The Company may be affected by significant restrictions following the Transaction in order to avoid significant tax-related liabilities.” The Company may be affected by significant restrictions following the Transaction in order to avoid significant tax-related liabilities. Even if the Distribution qualifies as a tax-free reorganization, it may not qualify as a transaction that is tax-free to Weyerhaeuser if 50% or more (by vote or value) of the equity securities of the Company are acquired by persons other than Weyerhaeuser shareholders as part of a “plan” that includes the Distribution pursuant to Section 355(e) of the Code. The tax sharing agreement requires that the Company, its subsidiaries and certain affiliates of the Company, for a two-year period following the Closing Date, avoid taking certain actions that might cause the Distribution to be treated as part of a plan pursuant to which 50% or more of the Company’s equity securities are acquired. Certain of these Disqualifying Actions subject to restrictions include: • The redemption, recapitalization, repurchase or acquisition by the Company of its capital stock; • The issuance by the Company of capital stock or convertible debt; • The liquidation of the Company; • The discontinuance of the operations of the Predecessor; • The sale or disposition (other than in the ordinary course of business) of all or a substantial part of the Predecessor; or • The other actions, omissions to act or transactions that could jeopardize the tax-free status of the Distribution. To the extent that the tax-free status of the Distribution is lost because of a Disqualifying Action after the date of consummation of the Transaction, the Company generally will be required to indemnify, defend and hold harmless Weyerhaeuser from and against any and all resulting tax-related losses incurred by Weyerhaeuser and/or Weyerhaeuser shareholders, without regard to whether Weyerhaeuser gave the Company prior written consent to the specific action taken by the Company. Because of these restrictions, the Company may be limited in its ability to pursue strategic transactions or equity or convertible debt financing or engage in new business or other transactions that may maximize the value of its business. A third party has demanded an increase in consideration from Domtar Inc. under an existing contract in connection with the Transaction. In 1998, Domtar Inc. acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of E.B. Eddy Limited and E.B. Eddy Paper, Inc., an integrated producer of specialty paper and wood products. The purchase agreement relating to this acquisition includes a purchase price adjustment whereby, in the event of the acquisition by a third-party of more than 50% of the shares of Domtar Inc. in specified circumstances, Domtar Inc. may be required to pay an increase in consideration of up to a maximum of CDN$120 million (approximately $121 million). This amount gradually declines over a 25-year period and at March 7, 2007, the Closing Date, the maximum amount of the purchase price adjustment was CDN$110 million (approximately $111 million). No provision was recorded for this potential purchase price adjustment. 30 On March 14, 2007, Domtar Inc. received a letter from George Weston Limited (the previous owner of E.B. Eddy and a party to the purchase agreement) demanding payment of CDN$110 million (approximately $111 million) as a result of the consummation of the Transaction. On June 12, 2007, an action was commenced by George Weston Limited against Domtar Inc. in the Superior Court of Justice of the province of Ontario, Canada, claiming that the consummation of the Transaction triggered the purchase price adjustment and seeking a purchase price adjustment of CDN$110 million (approximately $111 million) as well as additional compensatory damages. The Company and Domtar Inc. does not believe that the consummation of the Transaction triggers an obligation to pay an increase in consideration under the purchase price adjustment and it intends to defend itself vigorously against any claims with respect thereto. However, the Company may not be successful in its defense of such claims, and, if it is ultimately required to pay an increase in consideration, such payment may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s substantial indebtedness, which is approximately $2.2 billion as of December 30, 2007, could adversely affect its financial condition and impair its ability to operate its business. As of December 30, 2007, the Company had approximately $2.2 billion of outstanding indebtedness, including $693 million of indebtedness under its senior secured credit facilities, $39 million of capital leases and $1.5 billion of unsecured long-term notes. The Company’s substantial degree of indebtedness could have important consequences to the Company’s financial condition, operating results and business, including the following: • it may limit the Company’s ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; • a substantial portion of the Company’s cash flows from operations will be dedicated to payments on its indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes, including operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; • the debt service requirements of the Company’s indebtedness could make it more difficult for the Company to satisfy its other obligations; • the Company’s borrowings under the senior secured credit facilities are at variable rates of interest, exposing the Company to increased debt service obligations in the event of increased interest rates; • it may limit the Company’s ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place it at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have less debt; and • it may increase the Company’s vulnerability to a downturn in general economic conditions or in its business, and may make the Company unable to carry out capital spending that is important to its growth. Despite current indebtedness levels, the Company and its subsidiaries may incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with its substantial leverage. The Company and its subsidiaries may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although the Credit Agreement contains restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. For example, as of December 30, 2007, the Company had $50 million drawn under its senior secured revolving credit facility and $46 million of letters of credit outstanding, resulting in $654 million of availability for future drawings under this facility. Other new borrowing could also be incurred by Domtar Corporation or its subsidiaries. If the Company incurs additional debt, the risks associated with its substantial leverage would increase. 31 The Company’s ability to generate the significant amount of cash needed to pay interest and principal on the Domtar Corporation notes and service its other debt and financial obligations and its ability to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing depends on many factors beyond the Company’s control. The Company has considerable debt service obligations. The Company’s ability to make payments on and refinance its debt, including the Domtar Corporation debt securities and amounts borrowed under its senior secured credit facilities and other financial obligations and to fund its operations will depend on its ability to generate substantial operating cash flow. The Company’s cash flow generation will depend on its future performance, which will be subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond its control. The Company business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available to the Company under its senior secured credit facilities or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable the Company to service its indebtedness, including the Domtar Corporation notes, and borrowings under its senior secured credit facilities or to fund its other liquidity needs. If the Company cannot service its debt, the Company will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital investments, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing its debt or seeking additional equity capital. Any of these remedies may not be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and may impede the implementation of its business strategy. Further, the Credit Agreement may restrict the Company from adopting any of these alternatives. In addition, the restrictions on the Company’s ability to issue equity securities or convertible debt securities during the two year period following the Closing Date without jeopardizing the intended tax consequences of the Transaction may make it difficult for the Company to raise equity capital if needed to service its indebtedness. Because of these and other factors that may be beyond its control, the Company may be unable to pay the principal, premium, if any, interest or other amounts on the Domtar Corporation notes. See “Risks related to the Transaction—The Company may be affected by significant restrictions following the Transaction in order to avoid significant tax-related liabilities.” ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 