Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider the following factors in evaluating our business and prospects, including our proposed Merger with IDE, in addition to the other information included in this annual report. Because we have entered into the Merger Agreement and plan to effect the Merger with IDE, we have presented these risk factors under four separate sub-headings: (i) Risks Related to our Business and Owning our Securities; (ii) Risks Related to IDE’s Business; (iii) Risks Related to IDE’s Industry; and (iv) Risks Related to the Merger. Risks Related to our Business and Owning our Securities If we are unable to complete the Merger with IDE, we will not have enough time to negotiate and consummate another business combination and will be forced to liquidate. We must complete our business combination on or before May 18, 2009. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to complete the proposed Merger with IDE pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, or at all, or that the current terms of the proposed Merger will not be modified prior to the time that we complete the Merger. If we are unable to complete our Merger with IDE, because our shareholders fail to approve the Merger or for any other reason, it is unlikely that we will have enough time to negotiate and consummate another business combination and we would, therefore, be forced to liquidate our assets. If we are forced to liquidate our assets, the per-share liquidation distribution may be less than the $8.00 offering price per unit in our initial public offering and may be less than the price at which any shareholder purchased our shares of common stock in the open market because of the expenses of our initial public offering, the expenses relating to our negotiations and completion of the Merger and our other general and administrative expenses. Furthermore, there will be no liquidating distribution with respect to our outstanding warrants, which will expire worthless if we liquidate before we complete a business combination. We cannot assure you that we will be able to complete the proposed Merger with IDE pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, or at all. 18 Table of Contents If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per-share liquidation price received by shareholders will be less than $8.01. Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we have sought, and continue to seek to have all vendors and service providers we engage and prospective target businesses we negotiate with execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind whatsoever in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public shareholders, they have not all executed such agreements and we cannot assure you that they will do so in the future. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that, even if such entities have executed such agreements with us, they will not seek recourse against the trust account, or that such waivers will be enforceable or otherwise prevent potential contracted parties from making claims against the trust account. Nor is there any guarantee that a court would uphold the validity of such agreements. Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims which could take priority over those of our public shareholders and, as a result, the per-share liquidation price could be less than $8.01 due to claims of such third parties. If we liquidate before the completion of a business combination and distribute the proceeds held in trust to our public shareholders, Andrew Intrater, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, has agreed that he will be personally liable to ensure that the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced by the claims of target businesses or claims of vendors or other entities that are owed money by us for services rendered or contracted for or products sold to us. Because we have sought, and continue to seek to have all vendors and prospective target businesses execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind whatsoever they may have in or to any monies held in the trust account, we believe the likelihood of Mr. Intrater having any such obligations is minimal. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we have questioned Mr. Intrater on his financial net worth and reviewed his financial information and believe that he will be able to satisfy any indemnification obligations that may arise. However, we cannot assure you that he will be able to satisfy those obligations. Therefore, if we liquidate, we cannot assure you that the per-share distribution from the trust fund will not be less than $8.01, plus interest, due to such claims. Furthermore, creditors may seek to interfere with the distribution of the trust account pursuant to federal or state creditor and bankruptcy laws, which could delay the actual distribution of such funds or reduce the amount ultimately available for distribution to our public shareholders. If we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, the proceeds held in the trust account could be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our shareholders. Any claims by creditors could cause additional delays in the distribution of trust funds to the public shareholders beyond the time periods required to comply with DGCL procedures and federal securities laws and regulations. To the extent any bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account, we cannot assure you we will be able to return to our public shareholders at least $8.01 per share. Our shareholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that we will continue in existence only until May 18, 2009. If we do not complete the proposed Merger with IDE by such date and amend this provision in connection therewith, pursuant to the DGCL, our corporate existence will cease except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating. Under Sections 280 through 282 of the DGCL, shareholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in dissolution. If the corporation complies with certain procedures set forth in Section 280 of the DGCL intended to ensure that it makes reasonable provision for all claims against it, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against the corporation, a 90-day period during which the corporation may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions are made to shareholders, any liability of shareholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such shareholder's pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the shareholder, and any liability of the shareholder would be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. However, if we are forced to liquidate, it is our intention to make liquidating distributions to our shareholders as soon as reasonably possible after May 18, 2009 and, therefore, we do not intend to comply with those procedures. Because we will not be complying with those procedures, we are required, pursuant to Section 281 of the DGCL, to adopt a plan that will provide for our payment, based on facts known to us at such time, of (i) all existing claims, (ii) all pending claims and (iii) all claims that may be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years. Accordingly, we would be required to provide for any creditors known to us at that time or those that we believe could be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years prior to distributing the funds held in the trust to shareholders. We cannot assure you that we will properly assess all claims that may be potentially brought against us, if we are forced to liquidate. If Mr. Intrater is not able to satisfy such claims, as described above, our shareholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them (but no more) and any liability of our shareholders may extend well beyond the third anniversary of such date. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from our shareholders amounts owed to them by us. 19 Table of Contents Additionally, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, any distributions received by shareholders in our dissolution could be viewed under applicable debtor/creditor and/or bankruptcy laws as either a "preferential transfer" or a “fraudulent conveyance.” As a result, a bankruptcy court could seek to recover all amounts received by our shareholders in our dissolution. Because we intend to distribute the proceeds held in the trust account to our public shareholders promptly after May 18, 2009, this may be viewed or interpreted as giving preference to our public shareholders over any potential creditors with respect to access to or distributions from our assets. Furthermore, our board may be viewed as having breached their fiduciary duties to our creditors and/or may have acted in bad faith, and thereby exposing itself and our company to claims of punitive damages, by paying public shareholders from the trust account prior to addressing the claims of creditors. We cannot assure you that claims will not be brought against us for these reasons. An effective registration statement may not be in place when an investor desires to exercise warrants, thus precluding such investor from being able to exercise his, her or its warrants and causing such warrants to be practically worthless No warrant will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue our common shares unless at the time a holder seeks to exercise such warrant, a prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrant is current and the common stock has been registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the applicable state and federal securities laws. Under the terms of the warrant agreement, we have agreed to use our best efforts to meet these conditions and to maintain a current prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants until the expiration of the warrants. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so, and if we do not maintain a current prospectus related to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants, holders will be unable to exercise their warrants and we will not be required to settle any such warrant exercise. If the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not current or if the common stock is not exempt from registration, the warrants may have no value, the market for the warrants may be limited and the warrants may expire worthless. An investor will only be able to exercise a warrant if the issuance of common stock upon such exercise has been registered or qualified or is deemed exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. No warrants will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue common shares underlying the warrants unless the common shares issuable upon such exercise have been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt from registration or qualification under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of such warrants. Because the exemptions from qualification in certain states for resales of warrants and for issuances of common stock by the issuer upon exercise of a warrant may be different, a warrant may be held by a holder in a state where an exemption is not available for issuance of common stock upon an exercise and the holder will be precluded from exercise of the warrant. At the time that the warrants become exercisable (following our completion of a business combination), we expect to either continue to be listed on a national securities exchange, which (under current laws) would provide an exemption from registration in every state, or we would register the warrants in every state (or seek another exemption from registration in such states). Accordingly, we believe holders in every state will be able to exercise their warrants as long as our prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is current. However, we cannot assure you of this fact. As a result, the warrants may be deprived of any value, the market for the warrants may be limited and the holders of warrants may not be able to exercise their warrants if the common stock issuable upon such exercise is not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdiction in which the holders of the warrants reside. 20 Table of Contents There is no limit on the total amount of out-of-pocket expenses that may be incurred by our officers and directors in connection with identifying and investigating possible target businesses and business combinations. We will reimburse our officers and directors for any reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them in connection with identifying and investigating possible target businesses and business combinations. There is no limit on the total amount of out-of-pocket expenses reimbursable by us; provided that members of our management team will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the amount held outside of the trust account and interest income of up to $1,750,000 on the trust account balance that may be released to us to fund our expenses relating to investigating and selecting a target business and other working capital requirements, unless a business combination is consummated. Additionally, there will be no review of the reasonableness of the expenses other than by our audit committee and, in some cases, by our board of directors, or if such reimbursement is challenged, by a court of competent jurisdiction. As out-of-pocket expenses incurred by our officers and directors will not be subject to any dollar limit or any review of the reasonableness of such expenses other than by our audit committee or our board of directors, the aggregate business expenses incurred by our officers and directors in connection with identifying and investigating possible target businesses may be greater than if such expenses were subject to a more extensive review, which would reduce the amount of working capital available to us for a business combination. Further, if such out-of-pocket expenses exceed the available funds held outside of the trust and the interest income of up to $1,750,000 earned on the funds held in the trust account, our members of management will not be reimbursed for such excess unless we consummate a business combination. As described in more detail below, this may create a conflict of interest for members of our management in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination and in the public shareholders' best interest. We may issue additional equity securities which may dilute your interest in us. In order to expand our business, we may consider offering and issuing additional equity and equity-linked securities. Holders of our securities may experience a dilution in the net tangible book value per share held by them if this occurs. The number of shares that we may issue for cash without shareholder approval will be limited by the rules of the exchange on which our securities are listed. However, there are generally exceptions which allow companies to issue a limited number of equity securities which would dilute your ownership. The value of our common stock, warrants and units may be adversely affected by market volatility. Even if an active trading market develops, the market price of our shares, warrants and units may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our shares, warrants and units may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. If the market prices of our shares, warrants and units decline significantly, you may be unable to resell your shares, warrants and units at or above your purchase price, if at all. We cannot assure you that the market price of our shares, warrants and units will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect the price of our shares, warrants and units or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our shares and warrants include: · variations in our quarterly operating results or dividends; · failure to meet analysts’ earnings estimates or failure to meet, or the lowering of, our own earnings guidance; · departure of key personnel; · adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we may incur or securities we may issue in the future; · actions by shareholders; · changes in market valuations of similar companies; · speculation in the press or investment community; · changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations or differing interpretations thereof affecting our business or enforcement of these laws and regulations, or announcements relating to these matters; and · general market and economic conditions. 21 Table of Contents Failure of our internal control over financial reporting could harm our business and financial results. We are obligated to establish and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, which we refer to as “GAAP”. Internal control over financial reporting includes maintaining records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect our transactions and dispositions of assets, providing reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary for preparation of the financial statements in accordance with GAAP, providing reasonable assurance that our receipts and expenditures are made only in accordance with management authorization and providing reasonable assurance that unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on our financial statements would be prevented or detected on a timely basis. IDE’s growth and entry into new markets will place significant additional pressure on our system of internal control over financial reporting. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud, which in turn would harm our business and financial results. An impairment of goodwill could reduce our earnings. We may record goodwill on our consolidated balance sheet to the extent we consummate acquisitions after the Merger. Goodwill is recorded when the purchase price of a business exceeds the fair market value of the tangible and separately measurable intangible net assets. GAAP requires us to test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or when events or circumstances occur indicating that goodwill might be impaired. If we were to determine that any of our remaining balance of goodwill was impaired, we would record an immediate charge to earnings with a corresponding reduction in shareholders’ equity and increase in balance sheet leverage as measured by debt to total capitalization. We may choose to redeem our outstanding warrants at a time that is disadvantageous to warrant holders. If we seek to redeem our warrants, the holders of our warrants could be forced to (i) exercise the warrants and pay the exercise price at a time when it may be disadvantageous for them to do so, (ii) sell their warrants at the then current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold the warrants or (iii) accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the warrants. We expect most purchasers of warrants will hold their securities through one or more intermediaries and consequently you may not receive notice directly from us that the warrants are being redeemed. If you hold our warrants and fail to receive notice of redemption from a third party and your warrants are redeemed for nominal value, you will not have recourse against us. Persons who were shareholders prior to our initial public offering, including our officers and directors, control a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring shareholder vote. Persons who were shareholders prior to our initial public offering (including all of our officers and directors) collectively own 3,125,000 shares of our common stock, representing an aggregate of approximately 17.9% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Our officers and directors, or their designees, also purchased 3,650,000 warrants directly from us concurrently with the closing of our initial public offering at a price per warrant of $1.00, or an aggregate of $3,650,000. The purchase of these insider warrants, together with any other acquisitions of our shares (or warrants which are subsequently exercised), could allow the persons who were shareholders prior to our initial public offering to influence the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors, approval of the Merger and the Other Proposals and approval of significant corporate transactions after completion of the Merger. These warrants cannot be sold until 90 days after consummation of the Merger; however, our Founders may be able to transfer such warrants in certain limited circumstances such as by will in the event of their death, but the transferees receiving such warrants will be subject to the same sale restrictions imposed on our Founders and their designees. The insider warrants are non-redeemable provided they are held by the initial purchasers or their permitted transferees, which could provide such purchasers the ability to realize a larger gain than the holders of our publicly-held warrants. The warrants included in the units that we sold in our initial public offering may be called for redemption at any time after the warrants become exercisable in whole and not in part, at a price of $0.01 per warrant upon 90 days’ notice after the warrants become exercisable, only in the event that the last sale price of the common stock is at least $11.50 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading day period ending on the third business day prior to the date on which notice of redemption is given to warrant holders. 22 Table of Contents As a result of the insider warrants not being subject to the redemption features to which the publicly-held warrants are subject, holders of the insider warrants, or their permitted transferees, could realize a larger gain than holders of the warrants included in the units that we sold in our initial public offering. The NYSEAlternextUS may delist our securities from trading on its exchange which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our common stock and warrants are listed on the NYSEAlternextUS, a national securities exchange. On February 10, 2009, we received notification from the NYSEAlternextUS that we did not hold an annual meeting of stockholders during 2008 in accordance with Section 704 of the NYSEAlternextUS Company Guide (“Section 704”). The NYSEAlternextUS has requested us to submit a plan of compliance by March 10, 2009 (the “Plan”) in order for us to be in compliance with Section 704 by August 11, 2009. We intend to submit a Plan advising the NYSEAlternextUS that the upcoming meeting of stockholders to vote on the merger will also serve as our annual meeting of stockholders, at which a class of directors will be subject to election. If this Plan is accepted by the NYSEAlternextUS, we expect that we will be able to continue our listing on the Exchange. If this Plan is not accepted, we could be subject to delisting. We cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the NYSEAlternextUS, or on any other national securities exchange in the future. If the NYSEAlternextUS delists our securities from trading on its exchange and we are unable to list our securities on another exchange, or to have them quoted on NASDAQ, our securities could be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board or “pink sheets”. As a result, the holders of our securities could face significant material adverse consequences including, but not limited to, the following: · a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; · a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly result in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market; · a limited amount of news coverage; · a limited amount of financial analyst coverage; · a decreased ability to obtain new financing or issue new securities on favorable terms in the future; and/or · a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. The National Securities Markets Improvement Act of 1996, which is a federal statute, prevents or preempts the states from regulating the sale of certain securities, which are referred to as “covered securities.” Since we are listed on the NYSEAlternextUS, our securities are covered securities. Although the states are preempted from regulating the sale of our securities, the federal statute does allow the states to investigate a company if there is a suspicion of fraud. If there is a finding of fraudulent activity the states may regulate or bar the sale of covered securities in a particular case. While we are not aware of a state having used these powers to prohibit or restrict the sale of securities issued by blank check companies generally, certain state securities regulators view blank check companies unfavorably and might use these powers, or threaten to use these powers, to hinder the sale of securities of blank check companies in their states. Risks Related to IDE’s Business IDE has a limited operating history and, therefore, it may be difficult for you to evaluate IDE’s business. IDE’s operating history is limited, so it may be difficult for you to evaluate IDE’s business in making a decision regarding the ownership of our securities. IDE was incorporated in January 2008 as a holding company and commenced operations in its current lines of business in December 2008 when it acquired IEC and ARS. IEC is a company that commenced operations through a predecessor company in 1991. ARS is a company that commenced operations in 2005. In addition, IDE’s subsidiaries have been engaged in the manufacture and refurbishment of drilling rigs since only 2006 and their focus has been primarily on rig refurbishment. To date, IDE has constructed 28 rigs, two of which were complete rigs and 26 of which were rig refurbishments. IDE is still in the early stages of its development, which makes the evaluation of IDE’s business operations and prospects difficult. IDE is subject to the risks and difficulties frequently encountered by early stage companies. These risks and difficulties, as they apply to IDE in particular, include: 23 Table of Contents · potential fluctuations in operating results and uncertain growth rates; · limited history of IDE selling fully integrated rig products; · concentration of IDE’s revenues in a limited number of predominantly international markets; · availability of candidate rigs that require refurbishment; · IDE’s dependence on the oil and gas industry for all of its revenue; · IDE’s need to manage rapidly expanding operations; and · IDE’s need to attract, train and retain qualified personnel. IDE’s international business exposes it to instability and changes in economic and political conditions and other risks inherent to international business, which could have a material adverse effect on its operations or financial condition. IDE has significant international business, with approximately 12.6%, 41.7% and 81.0% of IDE’s revenues derived from foreign sales in each of 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively, based on the location to which IDE’s products are shipped or IDE has been informed will be shipped or at which IDE’s services are performed. IDE markets its products and services in all of the significant oil and gas producing areas in the world and is, therefore, subject to the risks customarily attendant to international operations and investments in foreign countries. Risks associated with IDE’s international operations include: · volatility in general economic, social and political conditions; · terrorist acts, war and civil disturbances; · expropriation or nationalization of assets; · renegotiation or nullification of existing contracts; · foreign taxation, including changes in law or interpretation of existing law; · assaults on property or personnel; · restrictive action by local governments; · foreign and domestic monetary policies; · limitations on repatriation of earnings; · travel limitations or operational problems caused by public health threats; and · changes in currency exchange rates. Any of these risks could have an adverse effect on the demand for IDE’s products and services in some locations. To date, IDE has not experienced any significant problems in foreign countries arising from local government actions or political instability, but there is no assurance that such problems will not arise in the future. Interruption of IDE’s international operations could have a material adverse effect on IDE’s overall operations. 24 Table of Contents IDE does business in international jurisdictions whose regulatory environments and compliance regimes differ from those in the United States. IDE’s business may suffer because its efforts to comply with United States laws and regulations could restrict its ability to do business in international jurisdictions, relative to IDE’s competitors who are not subject to United States laws and regulations. IDE’s international business operations include projects in countries where governmental corruption has been known to exist and where IDE’s competitors who are not subject to United States laws and regulations, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, can gain competitive advantages over IDE by securing business awards, licenses or other preferential treatment in those jurisdictions using methods that United States law and regulations prohibit IDE from using. For example, IDE’s non-U.S. competitors may not be subject to the anti-bribery restrictions of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which make it illegal to give anything of value to foreign officials or employees or agents of nationally owned oil companies in order to obtain or retain any business or other advantage. IDE may be subject to competitive disadvantages to the extent that IDE’s competitors are able to secure business, licenses or other preferential treatment by making payments to government officials and others in positions of influence. While IDE and its subsidiaries are committed to conducting business in a legal and ethical manner, there is a risk of violating the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or other applicable anti-corruption regulations that generally prohibit the making of improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Violations of these laws could result in monetary penalties against IDE or its subsidiaries and could damage IDE’s reputation and, therefore, its ability to do business. IDE’s inability to deliver its backlog on time could affect its future sales and profitability and its relationships with its customers. At December 31, 2008, IDE’s backlog was approximately $35.5 million. The ability to meet customer delivery schedules for this backlog is dependent on a number of factors including, but not limited to: · access to the raw materials required for production; · an adequately trained and capable workforce; · project engineering expertise for certain large projects; · sufficient manufacturing plant capacity; and · appropriate planning and scheduling of manufacturing and personnel resources. IDE’s failure to deliver in accordance with customer expectations may result in damage to existing customer relationships and result in the loss of future business. Failure to deliver backlog in accordance with expectations could negatively impact its financial performance. In addition, the cancellation by IDE’s customers of existing backlog orders, as a result of an economic downturn or otherwise, could adversely affect IDE’s business. If IDE is not able to manage its anticipated future growth successfully, IDE may not be able to maintain or increase its revenues and profitability, and IDE’s business reputation could be materially adversely affected. Managing its growth may be one of IDE’s greatest challenges. Between 2004 and 2008, IDE’s annual revenue increased from $10.9 million to $177.9 million. During this same period, IDE’s total worldwide headcount increased from 48 employees at January 1, 2004 to 528 employees (including contract employees) at December 31, 2008. Past and future growth will continue to place significant demands on IDE’s management, financial and accounting systems, information technology systems, real estate and other components of IDE’s infrastructure. To meet IDE’s growth and related demands, IDE continues to invest in enhanced or new systems, including enhancements to its accounting, billing and information technology systems. IDE may acquire or lease additional real estate to increase the number of rigs pads it has available. In addition, IDE may also need to hire additional personnel, particularly in IDE’s sales, marketing, professional services, finance, administrative and information technology groups. IDE’s success will depend in part upon the activities of IDE’s current management team, including IDE’s Chief Executive Officer and IDE’s Chief Financial Officer, to effectively manage this growth and transition to being part of a publicly traded company. IDE’s management will be required to devote considerable time to this process, which will reduce the time its management will have to implement its business and expansion plans. If IDE does not correctly anticipate its needs as it grows, if IDE fails to successfully implement its enhanced or new systems and other infrastructure improvements effectively and timely or if IDE encounters delays or unexpected costs in hiring, integrating, training and guiding its new employees, IDE may be unable to maintain or increase its revenues and profitability and its business reputation could be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, if IDE is unable to effectively manage its growth, IDE’s expenses may increase more than expected, its revenues could decline or grow more slowly than expected and IDE may be unable to implement its business strategy. 25 Table of Contents If IDE does not develop and commercialize new competitive products and expand IDE’s service offerings, IDE’s revenues may decline. To remain competitive in the market for oil field products and services, IDE must continue to develop and commercialize new products and expand IDE’s service offerings. If IDE is not able to develop commercially competitive products in a timely manner or expand its service offerings in response to industry demands, IDE’s business and revenues will be adversely affected. IDE’s future ability to develop new products and expand services depends on its ability to: · design and commercially produce products that meet the needs of its customers; · incorporate and implement services that meet the needs of its customers; · expand into new facilities and expand existing infrastructure; · successfully market new products and services; and · protect its proprietary designs from its competitors. IDE may encounter resource constraints or technical or other difficulties that could delay introduction of new products and services. IDE’s competitors may introduce new products and services before IDE does and achieve a competitive advantage. Additionally, the time and expense invested in product development may not result in commercial products or provide revenues. Moreover, IDE may experience operating losses after new products are introduced and commercialized because of high start-up costs, unexpected manufacturing costs or problems, lack of demand, or increased costs, including materials, labor and overhead. IDE plans to pursue acquisitions and joint ventures that by their nature present risks and that may not be successful. Acquisition Strategy. IDE’s growth strategy includes the acquisition of, and formation of joint ventures with, additional manufacturers of drilling rigs, oilfield products and providers of services to the oil and gas industry, both domestically and internationally. IDE’s ability to accomplish its acquisition strategy will depend upon a number of factors, including, among others, its ability to: · identify acceptable acquisition and joint venture candidates; · consummate the acquisition of or joint venture with such businesses on terms that IDE finds acceptable; · retain, hire and train professional management and sales personnel at each such business; and · promptly and profitably integrate the acquired business operations into IDE’s then-existing business. We cannot assure you that IDE will be successful with respect to such factors or that any acquired operations will be profitable or be successfully integrated into IDE’s then-existing business without substantial costs, delays or other problems. In addition, to the extent that consolidation becomes more prevalent in the oilfield products and services industry, the prices for attractive acquisition candidates may increase. In any event, we cannot assure you that businesses acquired in the future will achieve sales and profitability levels that justify the investments IDE makes therein. Acquisitions also could result in the accumulation of substantial goodwill and intangible assets, which may result in substantial impairment charges that could reduce IDE’s reported earnings. Capital Requirements of Acquisitions. Acquiring additional businesses in the oil and gas products and services industries will require additional capital and may have a significant impact on IDE’s financial position. If the Merger is completed, IDE may finance future acquisitions by using our common stock for all or a portion of the consideration to be paid. In the event our common stock does not maintain sufficient value, or potential acquisition candidates are unwilling to accept our common stock as consideration for the sale of their businesses, IDE may be required to utilize more of its cash resources, if available, in order to continue its acquisition program. If IDE does not have sufficient cash resources, IDE’s growth could be limited unless it is able to obtain capital through the issuance of additional debt or the issuance of one or more series or classes of its equity securities, which could have a dilutive effect on its then-outstanding capital stock. IDE does not currently have a line of credit or other lending arrangement with a lending financial institution that can be utilized for acquisitions, and we cannot assure you that IDE will be able to obtain such an arrangement on terms it finds acceptable or sufficient for its needs, if at all, should it determine to do so. 26 Table of Contents Environmental Risks Associated with Acquisitions. Although IDE intends to perform a detailed investigation of each business that IDE acquires, there may nevertheless be liabilities that IDE fails or is unable to discover, including liabilities arising from non-compliance with environmental laws by prior owners, and for which IDE, as a successor owner, may be responsible. IDE will seek to minimize the impact of these liabilities by obtaining indemnities and warranties from the seller that may be supported by deferring payment of a portion of the purchase price. However, these indemnities and warranties, if obtained, may not fully cover the liabilities due to their limited scope, amount or duration, the financial limitations of the indemnitor or warrantor, or other reasons. ARS’s and IEC’s failure to comply with restrictive covenants under their credit facilities could trigger prepayment obligations. IDE’s or its subsidiaries’ failure to comply with the restrictive covenants under its credit facilities in the future could result in an event of default under such facilities, which, if not cured or waived, would give Prospect the right to declare the debt due and payable. If this occurs and IDE or its subsidiaries are forced to refinance their borrowings, IDE’s results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by increased debt, costs and interest rates. IDE may lose money on fixed-price contracts. A significant portion of IDE’s business consists of designing, manufacturing, selling and installing equipment for major projects pursuant to competitive bids, and is performed on a fixed-price basis. Under these contracts, IDE is typically responsible for all cost overruns, other than the amount of any cost overruns resulting from requested changes in order specifications. IDE’s actual costs and any gross profit realized on these fixed-price contracts will often vary from the estimated amounts on which these contracts were originally based. This may occur for various reasons, including: · errors in estimates or bidding; · changes in availability and cost of labor and materials; and · variations in productivity from IDE’s original estimates. These variations and the risks inherent in IDE’s projects may result in reduced profitability or losses on projects. Depending on the size of a project, variations from estimated contract performance could have a material adverse impact on IDE’s (and, following the Merger, our) operating results. IDE may experience fluctuations in its quarterly operating results. IDE’s quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future. Significant annual and quarterly fluctuations in IDE’s results of operations may be caused by, among other factors: · the volume of revenues IDE has generated; · the timing of IDE’s announcements for the distribution of new products, and any such announcements by IDE’s competitors; · the acceptance of the products IDE manufactures and sells in the oil and gas equipment and services marketplace; and · general economic conditions. We cannot assure you that the level of revenues and profits, if any, achieved by IDE in any particular fiscal period will not be significantly lower than in other, including comparable, fiscal periods. IDE believes quarter-to-quarter comparisons of its revenues and operating results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied on as indicators of future performance. Operating expenses are based on management’s expectations of future revenues and are relatively fixed in the short term. IDE plans to increase operating expenses to: · expand its product line; 27 Table of Contents · expand its sales and marketing operations; · increase its services and support capabilities; and · improve its operational and financial systems. If IDE’s revenues do not increase along with these expenses, IDE’s business could be seriously harmed and net profits, if any, in a given quarter may be smaller than expected. This could cause a reduction in the price of our common stock following the Merger. IDE derives a significant portion of its revenues from a small number of customers and a loss of any of its major customers may cause significant declines in IDE’s revenues. IDE derives a significant portion of its revenues from a small number of customers, and IDE may be unable to maintain and expand IDE’s current customer relationships. For 2006, 2007 and 2008, IDE’s four largest customers in each such period represented approximately 58%, 71% and 75% of IDE’s total revenues, respectively, while IDE’s largest customer represented approximately 28%, 53% and 40% of its total revenues, respectively. IDE’s customers that represented 10% or more of IDE’s consolidated revenues were Mountain Drilling Company, Nabors Industries, Inc. and Pioneer Drilling Company for 2006, Nabors Industries, Inc. for 2007 and Nabors Industries, Inc. and Petrex S.A. for 2008. While IDE expects to expand its client base in the future, in the near term IDE expects it will continue to depend on a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of its sales volume and revenues. If IDE loses any of its major customers for any reason, including, for example, if IDE’s reputation declines, a customer materially reduces its orders from them, IDE’s relationship with one or more of its major customers deteriorates, or a major customer becomes insolvent or otherwise unable to pay for IDE’s products, IDE’s business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. IDE’s ability to finance its business activities will require it to generate substantial cash flow. IDE’s business activities require substantial capital. IDE intends to finance its operations and growth in the future through cash flows from operations (including customer deposits), cash on the balance sheet, proceeds from warrant exercises, the incurrence of additional indebtedness and/or the issuance of additional equity securities. IDE cannot be sure that its business will continue to generate cash flow at or about current levels. If IDE is unable to generate sufficient cash to fund its business and service its debt, IDE may have to obtain additional financing through the issuance of debt and/or equity. IDE cannot be sure that any additional financing will be available to it on acceptable terms. Issuing equity securities to satisfy IDE’s financing requirements could cause substantial dilution to IDE’s existing shareholders. If IDE’s revenues were to decrease due to lower demand for its products and services as a result of lower oil and nature gas prices or for other reasons, and if IDE could not obtain capital through its revolving credit facility or otherwise, IDE’s ability to operate and grow its business could be materially adversely affected. IDE has in the past borrowed money to make a one-time distribution, and may in the future borrow money under a new loan facility to fund its operations and growth, which exposes IDE to certain risks that may materially impact its operations. As of December 31, 2008, IDE had $36.2 million outstanding under credit facilities with Prospect Capital Corporation (“Prospect”). The proceeds were used to make a one-time distribution to the members and partners of IEC and ARS and to pay fees and expenses related to closing the loan. This indebtedness matures on November 20, 2012 and is secured and guaranteed by ARS and IEC. The annual cost to service this indebtedness is, based upon current rates, approximately $5.2 million of cash interest costs and approximately $3.8 million of annual required principal repayments. IDE is also required to make certain prepayments of this indebtedness in the event that IDE issues or incurs additional indebtedness or sells specified assets. Unless waived by Prospect, consummation of the Merger would be an event of default which would give Prospect the right to declare the debt due and payable. If this is the case, we will finance our activities using cash on our balance sheet and/or seek alternative financing for the combined company. We may also in the future seek to borrow money under a new loan facility to fund our operations and growth. Given the recent credit crisis, there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain such financing, or, if obtained, that the terms of such financing will be as favorable to us. 28 Table of Contents IDE’s ability to meet its debt obligations and to reduce its level of debt depends on its future performance, which is affected by general economic conditions and financial, business and other factors. Many of these factors are beyond IDE’s control. IDE’s level of debt affects its operations in several important ways, including the following: · a significant portion of IDE’s cash flow from operations must be used to pay interest on borrowings and is therefore not available to re-invest in IDE’s business; · the covenants contained in the agreements governing IDE’s debt limit its ability to borrow additional funds, pay dividends, make capital expenditures, dispose of assets and issue shares of preferred stock and otherwise may affect IDE’s flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions; · a high level of debt may impair IDE’s ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; · a highly-leveraged financial position would make IDE more vulnerable to economic downturns and could limit its ability to withstand competitive pressures; and · any debt that IDE incurs under its term credit facility will be at variable rates, which makes it vulnerable to increases in interest rates. IDE may be required to recognize a charge against current earnings because of percentage-of-completion accounting. Revenues and profits on long-term project contracts are recognized on a percentage-of-completion method based on the ratio of costs incurred to the total estimated costs. Accordingly, purchase order price and cost estimates are reviewed periodically as the work progresses, and adjustments proportionate to the percentage complete are reflected in the period when such estimates are revised. To the extent that these adjustments result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profits, IDE would have to recognize a charge against current earnings, which could be significant depending on the size of the project or the adjustment. IDE’s businesses and IDE’s customers’ businesses are subject to environmental laws and regulations that may increase IDE’s costs, limit the demand for IDE’s products and services or restrict IDE’s operations. IDE’s operations and the operations of IDE’s customers are also subject to federal, state and local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These environmental laws and regulations affect the products and services IDE designs, markets and sells, as well as the facilities where IDE manufactures its products. In addition, environmental laws and regulations could limit IDE’s customers’ exploration and production activities. IDE is required to invest financial and managerial resources to comply with environmental laws and regulations and anticipates that it will continue to be required to do so in the future. These laws and regulations change frequently, which makes it impossible for IDE to predict its cost or impact on its future operations. The modification of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations imposing more stringent environmental restrictions could adversely affect IDE’s operations. These laws may provide for “strict liability” for damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety, rendering a party liable for environmental damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of such party. Sanctions for noncompliance may include revocation of permits, corrective action orders, administrative or civil penalties, and criminal prosecution. Some environmental laws and regulations provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances. In addition, IDE may be subject to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as a result of alleged exposure to hazardous substances, as well as damage to natural resources. These laws and regulations also may expose IDE to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by others, or for IDE’s acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations at the time such acts were performed. Any of these laws and regulations could result in claims, fines or expenditures that could be material to IDE’s earnings, financial condition or cash flow. 29 Table of Contents Uninsured or underinsured claims or litigation or an increase in IDE’s insurance premiums could adversely impact IDE’s results. IDE maintains insurance to cover potential claims and losses, including claims for personal injury or death resulting from the use of IDE’s products. IDE carries comprehensive insurance, including business interruption insurance, subject to deductibles, at levels IDE believes are sufficient to cover existing and future claims. It is possible an unexpected judgment could be rendered against IDE in cases in which IDE could be uninsured or underinsured and beyond the amounts IDE currently has reserved or anticipate incurring. Significant increases in the cost of insurance and more restrictive coverage may have an adverse impact on IDE’s results of operations. In addition, IDE may not be able to maintain adequate insurance coverage at rates IDE believes are reasonable. IDE could be subject to substantial liability claims that could harm its financial condition. IDE’s operations involve hazardous activities that involve an extraordinarily high degree of risk. Hazardous operations are subject to accidents resulting in personal injury and the loss of life or property, environmental mishaps and mechanical failures, and litigation arising from such events may result in IDE being named a defendant in lawsuits asserting large claims. IDE may be held liable in certain circumstances, including if IDE fails to exercise reasonable care in connection with its activities, and IDE may also be liable for injuries to agents, employees and contractors who are acting within the course and scope of their duties. IDE currently maintains liability insurance coverage with aggregate policy limits that IDE believes to be adequate for its operations. However: · IDE may not be able to continue to obtain insurance on commercially reasonable terms; · IDE may be faced with types of liabilities that will not be covered by IDE’s insurance, such as damages from environmental contamination; and · the dollar amount of any liabilities may exceed IDE’s policy limits. A successful claim for which IDE is not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on IDE. We cannot assure you that IDE will not be subject to future claims in excess of the amount of insurance coverage that IDE deems appropriate to maintain. IDE may be faced with product liability claims. Most of IDE’s products are used in hazardous drilling and production applications in which an accident or a failure of a product can cause personal injury, loss of life, damage to property, equipment or the environment or suspension of operations. Despite IDE’s quality assurance measures, defects may occur in IDE’s products. Any defects could give rise to liability for damages, including consequential damages, and could impair the market’s acceptance of IDE’s products. IDE generally attempts to contractually disclaim responsibility for consequential damages, but IDE’s disclaimers may not be effective. IDE carries product liability insurance as a part of IDE’s commercial general liability coverage of $2 million per occurrence with a $5 million general aggregate annual limit. Additional coverage may also be available under IDE’s umbrella policy. IDE’s insurance may not adequately cover IDE’s costs arising from defects in IDE’s products or otherwise. The loss of the services of one or more of IDE’s executive officers or key employees could harm IDE’s business. IDE is a small and rapidly-growing company that relies upon a few key employees to ensure its business operates efficiently. IDE’s success will be dependent to a significant degree upon the business expertise and continued contributions of IDE’s senior management team, including in particular the efforts of Stephen Cope, IDE’s Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, President and Secretary. Because IDE is a small and rapidly growing company, IDE believes the loss of key personnel would be more disruptive to it than it would be to a large, multinational manufacturer. While IDE currently has employment agreements with its senior executives, many of its employees could with little or no prior notice, voluntarily terminate their employment with IDE at any time. IDE does not maintain key person life insurance on the life of any of its employees. The loss of the services of Mr. Cope or any of IDE’s other senior officers, or an inability to attract and retain other qualified personnel, may adversely affect IDE’s business and prospects. 30 Table of Contents In addition, IDE’s senior management team may not be able to successfully manage IDE’s company as it grows larger. If they are unable to handle these increased responsibilities and IDE is unable to identify, hire and integrate new personnel, IDE’s business, results of operations and financial condition would suffer. Even if IDE is able to identify new personnel, the integration of new personnel into IDE’s business will inevitably occur over an extended period of time. During that time, the lack of sufficient senior management personnel would cause IDE’s results of operations to suffer. Being a public company could place a strain on IDE’s management. The requirements associated with being part of a public company could place a strain on IDE’s senior management team. IDE may hire additional persons to assist with investor relations, or outsource this function, either of which will increase our costs. Further, management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could adversely affect our business. IDE has made, and will continue to make, changes to IDE’s corporate governance standards, disclosure controls and financial reporting and accounting systems to meet its reporting obligations. However, the measures IDE takes may not be sufficient to satisfy our obligations as a public company. Any failure to provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud would harm our business and operating results and cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations which would cause our stock price to suffer. Risks Related to IDE’s Industry Recent worldwide financial and credit crisis could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. Recent events have paralyzed credit markets and resulted in a significant downturn in the global banking industry. Most economists foresee a slow and uncertain recovery of credit markets, and an emerging global recession. A slowdown in worldwide economic activity has reduced demand for energy and resulted in lower oil and natural gas prices. Any prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas prices may reduce oil and natural gas drilling and production activity from certain customers and may result in a corresponding decline from these customers in the demand for IDE’s products and services, which could adversely impact IDE’s (and, following the Merger, our) operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, many of IDE’s customers and competitors who rely on the credit markets may not have access to financing for their oil and natural gas drilling and production activity. If the recent crisis reduces the availability of credit to certain of IDE’s customers, they may reduce their drilling and production expenditures, thereby decreasing demand for IDE’s products and services. Any such reduction in spending by IDE’s customers could adversely impact IDE’s (and, following the Merger, our) operating results and financial condition. Demand for IDE’s products and services depends on oil and natural gas industry activity and expenditure levels that are directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices. Demand for IDE’s products and services is particularly sensitive to the level of exploration, development and production activity of, and the corresponding capital spending by, oil and natural gas companies, including national oil companies. Prices for oil and natural gas are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of, and demand for, oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and speculation, and a variety of other factors that are beyond IDE’s control. Any prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas prices may depress the immediate levels of exploration, development and production activity. Perceptions of longer-term lower oil and natural gas prices by oil and gas companies may result in the reduction or deferral of major expenditures given the long-term nature of many large-scale development projects. Lower levels of activity may result in a corresponding decline in the demand for IDE’s products and services that could have a material adverse effect on IDE’s revenue and profitability. Many factors affect the supply and demand for oil and natural gas and therefore influence the demand for IDE’s products and services, including: · the level of production; · the levels of oil and natural gas inventories; · domestic and worldwide demand for oil and natural gas; · the expected cost of developing new reserves; · the actual cost of finding and producing oil and natural gas; 31 Table of Contents · the availability of attractive oil and gas field prospects, which may be affected by governmental actions and regulations or environmental activists; · the availability of transportation infrastructure and refining capacity; · the level of drilling activity; · global weather conditions and natural disasters; · worldwide political, military and economic conditions and economic activity, including growth in underdeveloped countries; · national government political objectives, including the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) to set and maintain production levels and prices for oil; · the cost and timing of the development of alternate energy sources; and · tax policies. If demand for drilling services or drilling rig utilization rates decrease significantly, demand for IDE’s products and services may decrease, which could affect IDE’s result of operations. The oil and gas industry is undergoing continuing consolidation that may impact IDE’s results of operations. The oil and gas industry is rapidly consolidating and, as a result, some of IDE’s largest customers have consolidated and are using their size and purchasing power to seek economies of scale and pricing concessions. This consolidation may result in reduced capital spending by some of IDE’s customers or the acquisition of one or more of IDE’s primary customers, which may lead to decreased demand for IDE’s products and services. IDE cannot assure you that it will be able to maintain its level of sales to a customer that has consolidated or replace that revenue with increased business activity with other customers. As a result, the acquisition of one or more of IDE’s primary customers may have a significant negative impact on IDE’s results of operations or IDE’s financial condition. IDE is unable to predict what effect consolidations in the industry may have on price, capital spending by its customers, its selling strategies, its competitive position, its ability to retain customers or its ability to negotiate favorable agreements with its customers. IDE must successfully compete for the services of highly-trained technical or trade personnel. Many of the services that IDE provides are complex and require a high level of expertise and often must be performed in harsh conditions. IDE’s success depends in part upon its ability to employ and retain technical personnel with the ability to produce and enhance these services. In addition, IDE’s ability to expand IDE’s operations depends in part on IDE’s ability to increase IDE’s skilled labor force. The demand for skilled workers in IDE’s industry is high and the supply is limited. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could result in a reduction of IDE’s skilled labor force, increases in the wage rates that IDE must pay, or both. If these events were to occur, IDE’s cost structure could increase, IDE’s margins could decrease, and IDE’s growth potential could be impaired. The intense competition in IDE’s industry could result in IDE’s reduced profitability and loss of market share. In all of IDE’s business segments, IDE competes with the energy industry’s largest equipment and service providers, including, in particular, National Oilwell Varco, which is by far the largest manufacturer in the industry and has reported revenues in 2007 of nearly $10 billion. Some of these companies have substantially greater financial resources and larger operations than IDE does. In addition, some of these companies may be better able to compete because of their broader geographic dispersion or their product and service diversity. As a result, IDE could lose customers and market share to those competitors. These companies may also be better positioned than IDE is to successfully endure downturns in the energy industry. IDE’s operations may be adversely affected if IDE’s current competitors or new market entrants introduce new products or services with better prices, features, performance or other competitive characteristics than IDE’s products and services. Competitive pressures or other factors also may result in significant price competition that could harm IDE’s revenue and IDE’s business. Additionally, IDE may face competition in its efforts to acquire other businesses. 32 Table of Contents The high cost or unavailability of materials, equipment, supplies and personnel could adversely affect IDE’s ability to execute IDE’s operations on a timely basis. IDE’s manufacturing operations are dependent on having sufficient raw materials, component parts and manufacturing capacity available to meet its manufacturing plans at a reasonable cost while minimizing inventories. IDE’s ability to effectively manage its manufacturing operations and meet these goals can have an impact on IDE’s business, including IDE’s ability to meet its manufacturing plans and revenue goals, control costs and avoid shortages of raw materials and component parts. Raw materials, component parts and equipment of particular concern include steel, copper, engine generator sets, drill pipe and electronic components. A lack of manufacturing capacity could result in increased backlog, which may limit IDE’s ability to respond to short lead-time orders or opportunities. People are a key resource to developing, manufacturing and delivering IDE’s products and services to IDE’s customers around the world. IDE’s ability to manage the recruiting, training and retention of the highly-skilled workforce required by IDE’s plans and to manage the associated costs could impact IDE’s business. A well-trained, motivated work force has a positive impact on IDE’s ability to attract and retain business. Rapid growth presents a challenge to IDE and its industry to recruit, train and retain its employees while managing the impact of wage inflation and potential lack of available qualified labor in its market. Labor-related actions, including strikes, work slowdowns and facility occupations, can also have a negative impact on IDE’s business. IDE depends on third-party suppliers for timely deliveries of raw materials at a reasonable cost, and IDE’s results of operations could be adversely affected if IDE is unable to obtain adequate supplies in a timely manner. IDE’s manufacturing operations depend upon obtaining adequate supplies of raw materials from third parties. The ability of these third parties to deliver raw materials may be affected by events beyond IDE’s control. Any interruption in the supply or increase in the prices of raw materials needed to manufacture IDE’s products could adversely affect IDE’s business, results of operations and reputation with its customers. Fluctuations in commodity prices may affect IDE’s margins and its earnings. If IDE’s arrangements with its suppliers were to be adversely affected, its equipment sales and parts and service businesses may suffer. IDE currently depends on a limited number of suppliers for certain important components for its products. IDE’s purchases from most of these suppliers are not made pursuant to long-term contracts and its arrangements with these suppliers may be terminated, in the case of certain arrangements, upon certain notifications and, otherwise, upon the occurrence of certain events, many of which may be beyond IDE’s control. The loss of any of these suppliers could have a material adverse effect on IDE’s business, financial condition and results of operations. IDE’s business may be adversely affected by severe weather. IDE’s operations are located in Houston, Texas and are directly affected by seasonal differences in weather due to hurricanes and other storms prevalent in the region. Repercussions of severe weather conditions may include: · evacuation of personnel and curtailment of services; · weather-related conditions resulting in suspension of operations; · weather-related damage to IDE’s facilities; · increase in insurance cost and reduction in its availability; · inability to receive or delays in receiving required equipment or materials at IDE’s facilities; and · loss of productivity. 33 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Merger If 30% or more of the holders of our common stock issued in its initial public offering decide to vote against the proposed acquisition, we may be forced to liquidate, shareholders may receive less than $8.01 per share and the warrants will expire worthless. Under the terms of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, if 30% or more of the shares issued in our initial public offering decide to vote against the proposed Merger and demand to convert their shares to cash, we cannot close the Merger with IDE and may ultimately be forced to liquidate. While we would continue to search to acquire another operating company, if we do not consummate a business combination by May 18, 2009, we will be forced to liquidate. Our public shareholders will be entitled to receive funds from the trust account only in the event of the expiration of our corporate existence and our liquidation or if they seek to convert their respective shares into cash upon a business combination that the shareholder voted against and which is completed by us. If we are forced to liquidate our assets, the per-share liquidation will be the amount deposited in the trust account at the time of our initial public offering, plus interest accrued thereon, less any amounts released for working capital or other expense requirements, until the date of any liquidation. As of December 31, 2008, before amounts remaining to be withdrawn for working capital and taxes, there was approximately $8.01 per share (which does not take into account our warrants or any shares of stock acquired by our initial shareholders at or prior to our initial public offering) in the trust account. Furthermore, there will be no distribution with respect to our outstanding warrants and, accordingly, our warrants will expire worthless. Our working capital could be reduced, and our shareholders could own less than 67.9 % of our outstanding common stock (or 33.9% if the additional consideration is paid in full in shares of our common stock), if our shareholders exercise their right to convert their shares into cash. Pursuant to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, holders of shares issued in our initial public offering may vote against the Merger and demand that we convert their shares into cash. We will not consummate the Merger if holders of 30% or more of the shares of common stock issued in our initial public offering exercise these conversion rights. To the extent the Merger is consummated and holders of less than 30% of our common stock issued in our initial public offering have demanded to convert their shares, there will be a corresponding reduction in the amount of funds available to us following the Merger and a reduction in the aggregate percentage of our company that is owned by our shareholders after the Merger. Additionally, if holders demand to convert their shares, there may be a corresponding reduction in the value of each share of our common stock. As of December 31, 2008, assuming the Merger is approved, the maximum amount of funds that could be disbursed to our shareholders upon the exercise of their conversion rights is approximately $34.5 million, or approximately 29.99% of the funds currently held in trust before accounting for taxes and our working capital draw. If no funds are disbursed to our shareholders upon the exercise of their conversion rights, the percentage of our common stock that would be owned by our shareholders will be approximately 73.7%, excluding any potential issuance based on 2009 or 2010 performance targets. If the maximum amount of funds is disbursed, the percentage of our common stock that will be owned by our shareholders who do not exercise their conversion right will be approximately 67.9%, excluding any potential issuance based on 2009 or 2010 performance targets. A substantial number of our shares will become eligible for future resale in the public market after the Merger which could result in dilution and an adverse effect on the market price of those shares. If the Merger is consummated, warrants to purchase 18,025,000 shares of our common stock issued in connection with our initial public offering will become exercisable on the date the Merger is consummated, as described under “Business —Overview.” Additionally, 3,125,000 shares of our common stock purchased by shareholders prior to our initial public offering will be held in escrow until the first anniversary of the consummation of the Merger, at which time they will be released from escrow and be eligible for resale in the public market subject to compliance with applicable law. Moreover, shares having a value of $12,500,000 (based on a value per share equal to the Trust Value per Share) of our common shares to be received by IDE shareholders as Merger consideration at the closing of the Merger will be will be held in escrow until two business days following ten (10) business days following the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, at which time they will be released from escrow and be eligible for resale in the public market subject to compliance with applicable law. Consequently, at various times after completion of the Merger, a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock will be eligible for resale in the public market. Sales of substantial numbers of such shares in the public market could adversely affect the market price of such shares and of the warrants. 34 Table of Contents Our existing shareholders will incur immediate and substantial dilution of their ownership and voting interests upon completion of the Merger. After completion of the Merger, through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock to the shareholders of IDE, our existing shareholders’ voting interest will be diluted from 100% to approximately 73.7% of our voting interests assuming maximum approval (or 40.5% if all of the additional consideration is paid in full in additional shares of our common stock), and approximately 67.9% of our voting interests assuming minimum approval (or 33.9% if all of the additional consideration is paid in full in additional shares of our common stock). If the benefits of the Merger do not meet the expectations of financial or industry analysts, the market price of our common stock may decline. The market price of our common stock may decline as a result of the Merger if: · we do not achieve the perceived benefits of the Merger as rapidly, or to the extent anticipated by, financial or industry analysts; or · the effect of the Merger on our financial results is not consistent with the expectations of financial or industry analysts. Accordingly, investors may experience a loss as a result of a decline in the market price of our common stock. In addition, a decline in the market price of our common stock could adversely affect our ability to issue additional securities and our ability to obtain additional financing in the future. Failure to complete the Merger could negatively impact the market price of our common stock and may make it more difficult for us to attract another acquisition candidate, resulting, ultimately, in the disbursement of the trust proceeds, causing investors to experience a loss of their investment. If the Merger is not completed for any reason, we may be subject to a number of material risks, including: · it is unlikely that we will have enough time to negotiate and consummate another business combination and we would, therefore, be forced to liquidate our assets; · the market price of our common stock may substantially decline; · costs related to the Merger, such as legal and accounting fees and certain costs related to the fairness opinion, must be paid even if the Merger is not completed; and · charges will be made against earnings for transaction-related expenses, which could be higher than expected. Such decreased market price and added costs and charges of the failed Merger, together with the history of failure in consummating a Merger, may make it more difficult for us to attract another acquisition candidate, resulting, ultimately, in the disbursement of the trust proceeds, which may result in investors experiencing a loss of their investment. In connection with the Merger, we will be required to submit a new listing application to NYSEAlternextUS, which will subject it to NYSEAlternextUS’s initial listing requirements. Our securities may also be delisted from trading on its exchange, which could limit investors’ ability to effect transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our securities are listed on NYSEAlternextUS, a national securities exchange. We cannot guarantee that our securities will continue to be listed on NYSEAlternextUS in the future. In addition, in connection with the Merger, we will be required to file a new listing application and satisfy NYSEAlternextUS’s initial listing requirements, as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at the time of the closing of the Merger. 35 Table of Contents If NYSEAlternextUS delists our securities from trading in the future, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: · a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; · determination that our common stock is a “penny stock,” which would require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; · more limited amount of news and analyst coverage for us; · decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future; and · decreased ability of our security holders to sell their securities in certain states. If we do not consummate the Merger with IDE and we are unable to consummate any business combination by May 18, 2009, and are forced to dissolve and liquidate, payments from the trust account to our public shareholders may be delayed. If we do not consummate the business combination with IDE and we does not consummate a business combination by May 18, 2009, we will dissolve and liquidate. We currently expect that the costs associated with the implementation and completion of the plan of dissolution and liquidation would not be more than approximately $10,000. Andrew Intrater has personally agreed that, if we liquidate prior to the consummation of a business combination, he will be personally liable to pay debts and obligations to target businesses or vendors or other entities that are owed money by us for services rendered or contracted for or products sold to us in excess of the net proceeds of our initial public offering not held in the trust account; however, there is no guarantee that the assets of Mr. Intrater will be sufficient to satisfy our dissolution and/or liquidation expenses. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation also provides that our corporate existence will cease on May 18, 2009 except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating pursuant to Section 278 of the DGCL. This has the same effect as if our board of directors and shareholders had formally voted to approve our dissolution pursuant to Section 275 of the DGCL. Accordingly, limiting our corporate existence to a specified date as permitted by Section 102(b)(5) of the DGCL removes the necessity to comply with the formal procedures set forth in Section 275 (which would have required our shareholders to formally vote to approve our dissolution and liquidation). We view this provision terminating our corporate life by May 18, 2009 as an obligation to our shareholders. Accordingly, the foregoing procedures may result in substantial delays in our liquidation and the distribution to public shareholders of the funds in the trust account and any remaining net assets as part of the plan of dissolution and liquidation. In addition, even though our amended and restated certificate of incorporation requires our corporate existence to cease on May 18, 2009, the liquidation and dissolution will occur after May 18, 2009. If we do not complete the Merger, it is not likely that we will be able to identify and consummate an acquisition with another company prior to May 18, 2009. If we do not consummate a business combination by May 18, 2009, we will be forced to dissolve and liquidate. If the Merger with IDE is not consummated, we will attempt to identify and consummate another business combination, but given the limited amount of time available, the possibilities of finding and consummating another business combination prior to May 18, 2009 are limited. Our shareholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against it to the extent of distributions received by them. If we are unable to complete the Merger with IDE and we do not consummate a business combination by May 18, 2009, we will promptly adopt a plan of dissolution and initiate procedures for a dissolution and liquidation. Under the DGCL, shareholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. If we complied with certain procedures set forth in Section 280 of the DGCL intended to ensure that we make reasonable provision for all claims against us, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against us, a 90-day period during which we may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions are made to shareholders, any liability of a shareholder with respect to a liquidating distribution would be limited to the lesser of such shareholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the shareholder, and any liability of the shareholder would be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. However, it is our intention to make liquidating distributions to our shareholders as soon as reasonably possible after dissolution and, therefore, we do not intend to comply with those procedures. As such, our shareholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution and any such liability of our shareholders will likely extend beyond the third anniversary of such dissolution. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from our public shareholders amounts owed to them by us. 36 Table of Contents Andrew Intrater has personally agreed that, if we liquidate prior to the consummation of a business combination, he will be personally liable to pay debts and obligations to target businesses or vendors or other entities that are owed money by us for services rendered or contracted for or products sold to us in excess of the net proceeds of our initial public offering not held in the trust account; however, there is no guarantee that the assets of Mr. Intrater will be sufficient to satisfy our dissolution and/or liquidation expenses. Despite this agreement by Mr. Intrater, the amounts in trust could be reduced by claims by our directors and officers for indemnification under the amended and restated certificate of incorporation and their indemnification agreements with us. Additionally, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, any distributions received by shareholders in the dissolution could be viewed under applicable debtor/creditor and/or bankruptcy laws as either a “preferential transfer” or a “fraudulent conveyance.” As a result, a bankruptcy court could seek to recover all amounts received by the shareholders in the dissolution. Escrowed securities represent the sole recourse for us against IDE and its shareholders for indemnification under the Merger Agreement. Except in the case of fraud, willful misrepresentation, or intentional breach, the escrowed securities represent the sole recourse for us against IDE and its shareholders for indemnification under the Merger Agreement. As a result, it is possible that we may not be fully indemnified for the losses that we may incur in respect of breaches by IDE or other items that are subject to indemnification under the Merger Agreement. If third parties bring claims against us or if IDE has breached any of its representations, warranties or covenants set forth in the Merger Agreement, we may not be adequately indemnified for any losses arising therefrom. Shares having a value of $12,500,000 (based on a value per share equal to the Trust Value per Share) of the shares of our common stock to be received by IDE shareholders as Merger consideration at the closing of the Merger will be placed in escrow to secure the indemnity obligations of IDE under the Merger Agreement. The Merger Agreement provides that IDE shareholders will indemnify us for losses arising from: · an inaccuracy or breach of its representations and warranties; · the non-fulfillment or breach of any covenant or agreement by IDE; · certain pre-closing taxes of IDE and its subsidiaries and taxes of other persons for which IDE or its subsidiaries may be liable under tax law, as a transferee or successor, by contact or otherwise; · certain taxes of IDE, we or our respective subsidiaries resulting from a failure of the Merger and certain other transactions to qualify for tax-free treatment; and · any amounts paid pursuant to any judgment or settlement entered in connection with certain pre-existing litigation. Such indemnification is limited to the aggregate amount of the value of the escrow in excess of specified thresholds and deductibles. In addition, the survival period for any claims under the Merger Agreement is ten (10) business days following the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 and we will have no indemnification for claims arising after ten (10) business days following the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009. 37 Table of Contents Certain officers and directors of IDE and our company may have different interests in the Merger than our shareholders. Our board of directors considered the fact that certain officers and directors of IDE and our company may have interests in the Merger that are different from, or are in addition to, the interests of our shareholders generally, including the matters described under “Interests of our Directors and Officers in the Merger” above. However, this fact would exist with respect to a Merger with any target company. The purchases of common stock by our or IDE’s officers and directors or their affiliates could impact the shareholder vote in favor of the Merger Proposal. In open market purchases, our and IDE’s officers and directors or their affiliates may be purchasing common stock from shareholders who (unknown to such purchasers) may have otherwise voted against the Merger Proposal. In private transactions with large block holders, our affiliates may be purchasing common stock from shareholders who may have intended to vote against the Merger Proposal. Further, these block holders may, together, own more than 30% of the outstanding shares of our common stock issued in our initial public offering or open market shares. Accordingly, such purchases make it more likely – but not assured – that: (i) a majority of shares will be voted in favor of the Merger Proposal, and (ii) that the 30% threshold of shareholders that must exercise their conversion rights in order to defeat the proposal to approve the Merger and cause the liquidation of us would not be reached. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 