risk factors. Risks Relating to Our Early Stage of Development We are in an early stage of development of our business and properties, and so we are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Our limited operating history may not serve as an adequate basis to judge our future operating results and prospects. In significant respects we remain in a developmental phase of our business and there is limited historical information available about our company upon which you can base your evaluation of our business and prospects. In particular, we only recently opened Crown Macau and are still in the process of constructing City of Dreams. The Macau peninsula project is at an even more preliminary stage of development, and we have not completed the acquisition of the site. The Mocha Club business, which we acquired in 2005, did not commence operations until 2003. MPBL Gaming only recently acquired its subconcession and previously did not have any direct experience operating casinos in Macau. As a result, you should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks, expenses and challenges that we will face as an early-stage company seeking to develop and operate major new development projects and gaming businesses in a rapidly growing and intensely competitive market. 7 Table of Contents Among other things, we are still in the process of: • satisfying conditions precedent and complying with other conditions and covenants under the $1.75 billion City of Dreams Project Facility to effect further drawdowns under the facility and to maintain the facility; • completing the construction contracts for the City of Dreams project; • obtaining the formal grant of a land concession from the Macau government for the City of Dreams site; • obtaining the approval from the Macau government to increase the developable gross floor area of the City of Dreams site; and • acquiring an ownership interest in the company that owns the Macau peninsula site, which is subject to significant conditions in the control of third parties unrelated to us and the seller, and to obtaining Macau governmental approvals, and obtaining financing commitments for the acquisition and development of the Macau peninsula project. We have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by early- stage companies, and those risks and difficulties may be heightened in a rapidly developing market such as the gaming market in Macau. Some of the risks relate to our ability to: • complete our construction projects within their anticipated time schedules and budgets; • obtain a land concession for the City of Dreams project; • obtain formal occupancy licenses for City of Dreams; • identify suitable locations and enter into new lease agreements for new Mocha Clubs; • renew lease agreements for existing Mocha Clubs; • attract and retain customers and qualified employees; • operate, support, expand and develop our operations and our facilities; • maintain effective control of our operating costs and expenses; • raise additional capital, as required; • fulfill conditions precedent to draw down funds from current and future credit facilities; • develop and maintain internal personnel, systems, controls and procedures to assure compliance with the extensive regulatory requirements applicable to the gaming business as well as regulatory compliance as a public company; • respond to changes in our regulatory environment; • respond to competitive market conditions; and • respond to changing financing requirements. If we are unable to complete any of these tasks, we may be unable to complete those of our projects that are currently under development and operate our businesses in the manner we contemplate and generate revenues from such projects in the amounts and by the times we anticipate. We may also be unable to meet the conditions to draw on our existing or future financing facilities in order to fund our development, construction and acquisition activities or may suffer a default under our financing facilities. If any of these events were to occur, it would cause a material adverse effect on our business and prospects, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. We could encounter problems that substantially increase the costs to develop our projects and delay or prevent the opening of one or more of our projects. The budgets estimated for the City of Dreams project and the Macau peninsula project fully are based on preliminary projections, conceptual design documents and schedule estimates that are prepared with the assistance of our architects and contractors and are subject to change as the plans and design documents are developed and as 8 Table of Contents contract packages are let into the marketplace. We expect revisions to our estimated project costs as we firm up our design plans and hire architects, contractors and sub-contractors for these projects. All our projects are subject to significant development and construction risks, which could have a material adverse impact on our project timetables and costs and our ability to complete the projects. These risks include the following: • changes to plans and specifications; • engineering problems, including defective plans and specifications; • shortages of, and price increases in, energy, materials and skilled and unskilled labor, and inflation in key supply markets; • delays in obtaining or inability to obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals; • changes in laws and regulations, or in the interpretation and enforcement of laws and regulations, applicable to gaming, leisure, residential, real estate development or construction projects; • labor disputes or work stoppages; • disputes with and defaults by contractors and subcontractors; • environmental, health and safety issues, including site accidents; • weather interferences or delays; • fires, typhoons and other natural disasters; • geological, construction, excavation, regulatory and equipment problems; and • other unanticipated circumstances or cost increases. The occurrence of any of these development and construction risks could increase the total costs, delay or prevent the construction or opening or otherwise affect the design and features of our projects that are under development, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We cannot guarantee that our construction costs or total project costs for our projects will not increase. Costs of key construction inputs are increasing in Macau and we believe they are likely to continue to increase during the construction periods of our projects, primarily due to the significant level of building activity in Macau. Our contractors and sub-contractors may not be able to secure lower cost labor and other inputs from mainland China on a timely basis and in an adequate amount, as they will need to obtain required licenses from the Macau government to do so. The application for such licenses, if granted at all, may take several weeks or months. Continuing increases in input costs of construction in Macau will increase the risk that contractors will fail to perform under their contracts on time, within budget, or at all, and could increase the costs of any contracts that we may enter into for the City of Dreams and the Macau peninsula projects. We may be required to incur significant additional indebtedness or sell convertible bonds, ADSs or other equity or equity-linked securities. Our ability to obtain additional financing may be limited, which could delay or prevent the opening of one or more of our projects. We may require more debt and equity funding to complete our projects, fund initial operating activities and service debt payments and depending on whether our projects are completed within budget, the timing of completion and commencement of revenue generating operations at our projects, any further investments and/or acquisitions we may make, and the amount of cash flow from our operations. If delays and cost overruns are significant, the additional funding we would require could be substantial. The raising of additional debt funding by us, if required, would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in additional operating and financing covenants, or liens on our assets, that would restrict our operations. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. 9 Table of Contents Our ability to obtain required additional capital on acceptable terms is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: • limitations on our ability to incur additional debt, including as a result of prospective lenders’ evaluations of our creditworthiness and pursuant to restrictions on incurrence of debt in our existing and anticipated credit facilities, which currently prohibits MPBL Gaming and our other subsidiaries from incurring additional indebtedness with only limited exceptions, and the fact that our senior creditors have pledges over our operating assets, including Crown Macau and Mocha Clubs; • limitations on our ability to raise capital from the credit markets, especially if the current turmoil in the credit markets originating from the negative conditions in the U.S. subprime mortgage market continues. For example, this turmoil led us to restructure the US$2.75 billion commitment announced in June 2007 to the sum of US$1.75 billion under the City of Dreams Project Facility; • investors’ and lenders’ perception of, and demand for, debt and equity securities of gaming, leisure and hospitality companies, as well as the offerings of competing financing and investment opportunities in Macau by our competitors; • whether it is necessary to obtain further credit support or other assurances from Melco and Crown on terms and conditions and in amounts that are commercially acceptable to them; • MPBL Gaming’s ability to obtain consent from the Macau government as required under our subconcession contract; • conditions of the U.S., Macau, Hong Kong, and other capital markets in which we may seek to raise funds; • our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows; • requirements for approval for certain transactions from Macau, Hong Kong or Australian authorities, the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, the Nasdaq, our principal lenders and/or shareholders of Melco and/or Crown, among others; • Macau governmental regulation of gaming in Macau; and • economic, political and other conditions in Macau, China and the Asian region. Without the necessary capital, we may not be able to: • complete the development of our existing projects or acquire and develop new projects; • pay the land premium for our sites; • acquire necessary rights, assets or businesses; • expand our operations in Macau; • hire, train and retain employees; • market our programs, services and products; or • respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated funding requirements. We cannot assure you that the necessary financing will be available in the future in the amounts or on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we fail to raise additional funds in such amounts and at such times as we may need, we may be forced to reduce our expenditures and growth to a level that can be supported by our cash flow and delay the development of our projects, which may result in our inability to meet drawing conditions under our loan facilities or default and exercise of remedies by the lenders under our loan facilities, whose loans we expect to be secured by liens on substantially all the shares and assets of our subsidiaries. In that event, we would be unable to complete our projects under construction and could suffer a partial or complete loss of investment in our projects. 10 Table of Contents Servicing the debt of our subsidiaries requires a significant amount of cash, and our subsidiaries may not generate a sufficient level of cash flow from their businesses to make scheduled payments on their debt. Our subsidiaries’ ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on or to refinance their indebtedness depends on our subsidiaries’ future performance, which is subject to certain economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our subsidiaries may not generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service their debt and make necessary capital expenditures. If they are unable to generate such cash flow, our subsidiaries may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt, incurring additional indebtedness or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. For example, we are intending to use some of our City of Dreams Project Facility to service some portion of our periodic debt obligations. Our subsidiaries’ ability to refinance their indebtedness will depend on the financial markets and their financial condition at such time. Our subsidiaries may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our subsidiaries’ debt obligations and a material adverse effect on the value of our ADSs. Even if our development projects are completed as planned, they may not be financially successful, which would limit our cash flow and would adversely affect our operations and our ability to repay our debt. Even if our development projects are completed as planned, they still may not be financially successful ventures or generate the cash flows that we anticipate. We may not attract the level of patronage that we are seeking. If any of our projects does not attract sufficient business, this will limit our cash flow and would adversely affect our operations and our ability to service payments under our existing and any future loan facilities. Risks Relating to the Completion and Operation of Our Projects For the City of Dreams project, we are directly negotiating and entering into contracts with all our construction contractors and vendors, which may increase the risk of delay and cost overruns. In contrast to the Crown Macau project in which our general contractor was responsible for negotiating, entering into and managing all contractual relationships with subcontractors and construction vendors, we are directly negotiating and entering into contracts with our construction contractors and vendors for the City of Dreams project, with the support of our construction manager (with the exception of certain contracts that are related to common temporary site services which are entered into and managed by the construction manager). This approach increases the administrative burden of negotiating, entering into and managing construction contracts, and the risk of construction delays and cost overruns. If we are ineffective in directly overseeing contractual relationships with our construction contractors and vendors, we may experience delays and increases in construction costs in connection with the City of Dreams project. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all losses that we may suffer from our projects. In addition, our insurance costs may increase and we may not be able to obtain the same insurance coverage in the future. If we incur loss or damage for which we are held liable for amounts exceeding the limits of our insurance coverage, or for claims outside the scope of our insurance coverage, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. For example, certain casualty events, such as labor strikes, nuclear events, acts of war, loss of income due to cancellation of conventions or room reservations arising from fear of terrorism, deterioration or corrosion, insect or animal damage and pollution may not be covered under our policies. As a result, certain acts and events could expose us to significant uninsured losses. In addition to the damages caused directly by a casualty loss such as fire, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, we may suffer a disruption of our business as a result of these events or be subject to claims by third parties who may be injured or harmed. While we intend to carry business interruption insurance and general liability insurance, such insurance may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and, in any event, may not be adequate to cover all losses that may result from such events. For the construction of City of Dreams, we have obtained insurance policies providing coverage for construction risks that we believe are typically insured in the construction of gaming and hospitality projects 11 Table of Contents in Macau and Hong Kong. However, this insurance coverage excludes certain types of loss and damage, such as loss or damage from acts of terrorism or liability for death or illness caused by contagious or infectious diseases. If loss or damage of those types were to occur, we could suffer significant uninsured losses. The cost of coverage, however, may in the future become so high that we may be unable to obtain the insurance policies we deem necessary for the construction and operation of our projects on commercially practicable terms, or at all, or we may need to reduce our policy limits or agree to certain exclusions from our coverage. We cannot assure you that any such insurance policies we may obtain will be adequate to protect us from material losses. Construction at our projects is subject to hazards that may cause personal injury or loss of life, thereby subjecting us to liabilities and possible losses, which may not be covered by insurance. The construction of large scale properties such as our development projects can be dangerous. Construction workers at our projects are subject to hazards that may cause personal injury or loss of life, thereby subjecting the contractor and us to liabilities, possible losses, delays in completion of the projects and negative publicity. We believe that we and our contractors take safety precautions that are consistent with industry practice, but these safety precautions may not be adequate to prevent serious personal injuries or loss of life, damage to property or delays. If future accidents occur during the construction of our projects, we may be subject to delays, including delays imposed by regulators, liabilities and possible losses, which may not be covered by insurance, and our business, prospects and reputation may be materially and adversely affected. We may encounter all of the risks associated with the development and construction of the Crown Macau project in the development and construction of the City of Dreams and the Macau peninsula projects. In connection with the development and construction of Crown Macau, we encountered a number of risks, including risks related to construction delays, budget overruns, construction contract disputes, failure to obtain, or not obtaining in a timely manner, the necessary government concessions, licenses, permits and approvals, among others. We also experienced increased holding costs as a result of delays. We are and expect to continue to be exposed to similar risks in the development and construction of City of Dreams, which will be substantially larger and more complex, and the Macau peninsula project, which is at an early stage of land acquisition and design. We have not yet entered into all of the definitive contracts necessary for the construction and development of the City of Dreams and the Macau peninsula projects. We cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into definitive contracts with contractors with sufficient skill, financial strength and experience on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We have not, and may not be able to, obtain guaranteed maximum price or fixed contract price terms on the various sub-contractor construction contract changes for the City of Dreams project, which could cause us to bear greater risks of cost overruns and construction delays. If we are unable to enter into satisfactory construction contracts for the City of Dreams project or are unable to closely control the construction costs and timetable for the City of Dreams project, our business, financial condition and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. We are developing City of Dreams on land for which we have not yet been granted a formal concession by the Macau government. If we do not obtain a land concession, we could forfeit all or a part of our investment in the site and the design and construction of City of Dreams and would not be able to open and operate that facility as planned. Land concessions in Macau are issued by the Macau government and generally have a term of 25 years, which is renewable for further consecutive periods of up to 10 years each until December 19, 2049 in accordance with Macau law. The specific terms are determined in the relevant land concession contracts, and there are common formulas generally used to determine the cost of these land concessions. On May 10, 2005, we accepted in principle the Macau government’s offer of a land concession to Melco Crown (COD) Developments Limited consisting of approximately 113,325 square meters (1.2 million sq. ft.) of land in Cotai for the site of City of Dreams. On January 31, 2008, we received from the Macau SAR Land Commission the final terms of the land lease agreement to be entered into with the Macau SAR for the two adjacent land parcels on Cotai that comprise the City of Dreams site. The terms define the premium and payment schedule for the City of Dreams site and specify the development rights associated with the land concession. Our subsidiaries Melco Crown (COD) Developments and MPBL Gaming accepted the final terms of the land lease agreement on February 11, 2008 and Melco Crown (COD) 12 Table of Contents Developments made the first scheduled land premium payment on the same date. Following the gazetting of the land concession the land grant process will be complete. We do not have a committed timetable for the completion of the remaining step and cannot assure you that we will be able to complete this step. If we do not obtain a land concession for the City of Dreams site, we would not meet the existing conditions to draw additional sums under the City of Dreams Project Facility and may not be able to complete and operate City of Dreams and we could lose all or a substantial part of our investment in City of Dreams. If the land concession, when granted, contains terms unacceptable to us and we are unable to seek amendments to such land concession, we may not be able to complete and operate City of Dreams as planned and we could lose all or a substantial part of our investment in City of Dreams. As of December 31, 2007, we had paid approximately US$553 million of the project costs, excluding the cost of land, for the City of Dreams project, primarily for construction costs and design and consultation fees. The majority of the development and construction costs for hotel and casino projects are typically spent closer to the completion of such projects and we expect that a large portion of our remaining expenditures budgeted for the City of Dreams project, as well as potential additional amounts in excess of the budgeted amounts, will be spent in the months leading up to the expected opening date of City of Dreams. In addition, our current plans for the City of Dreams project involve obtaining approval from the Macau government for an increase in the developable gross floor area of the City of Dreams site. There is no guarantee that we will obtain such approval. Simultaneous planning, design, construction and development of our two major projects may stretch our management time and resources, which could lead to delays, increased costs and other inefficiencies in the development of one or more of our projects. We expect some portions of the planning, design and construction of the City of Dreams and the Macau peninsula projects to proceed simultaneously. Since there is a significant overlap of the planning, design, development and construction periods of these projects involving the need for intensive work on each of the projects, members of our senior management will be involved in planning and developing both projects at the same time, in addition to overseeing day-to-day operations of Crown Macau and the Mocha Clubs. Our management may be unable to devote sufficient time and attention to our development and construction projects, as well as our operating properties, and that may delay the construction or opening of one or both of our projects, cause construction cost overruns or cause the performance of our operating properties to be lower than expected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We will need to recruit a substantial number of new employees before each of our projects can open and competition may limit our ability to attract qualified management and personnel. We required extensive operational management and staff to open and operate Crown Macau. Accordingly, we undertook a major recruiting program before the Crown Macau opening and expect to do so again before each of the City of Dreams and the Macau peninsula projects opens. The pool of experienced gaming and other skilled and unskilled personnel in Macau is severely limited. Many of our new personnel will occupy sensitive positions requiring qualifications sufficient to meet gaming regulatory and other requirements or will be required to possess other skills for which substantial training and experience may be needed. Moreover, competition to recruit and retain qualified gaming and other personnel is likely to intensify further as competition in the Macau casino hotel market increases. Other major casino hotels, such as Galaxy Mega Resort, are expected to open in Macau at or around the same time as the expected opening of City of Dreams. In addition, we are not currently allowed under Macau government policy to hire non-Macau resident dealers and croupiers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified individuals to operate our projects or that costs to recruit and retain such personnel will not increase significantly. The loss of the services of any of our senior managers or the inability to attract and retain qualified employees and senior management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our contractors may face difficulties in finding sufficient labor at acceptable cost, which could cause delays and increase construction costs of our projects. The contractors we retain to construct our projects may also face difficulties and competition in finding qualified construction laborers and managers as more projects commence construction in Macau and as substantial 13 Table of Contents construction activity continues in China. Immigration and labor regulations in Macau may cause our contractors to be unable to obtain sufficient laborers from China to make up any gaps in available labor in Macau and to help reduce costs of construction, which could cause delays and increase construction costs of our projects. Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our senior management, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services or their other responsibilities cause them to be unable to devote sufficient time and attention to our company. We place substantial reliance on the gaming, project development and hospitality industry experience and knowledge of the Macau market possessed by members of our senior management team, including our co-chairman and chief executive officer, Mr. Lawrence Ho. The loss of the services of one or more of these members of our senior management team could hinder our ability to effectively manage our business and implement our growth and development strategies. Finding suitable replacements for Mr. Lawrence Ho or other members of our senior management could be difficult, and competition for personnel of similar experience could be intense in Macau. We do not currently carry key person insurance on any members of our senior management team. Because we will depend upon a limited number of properties for a substantial portion of our cash flow, we will be subject to greater risks than a gaming company with more operating properties. We will be primarily dependent upon Mocha Clubs, Crown Macau, City of Dreams and possibly the Macau peninsula project for our cash flow. Given that our operations will be conducted based on a small number of principal properties, we will be subject to greater risks than a gaming company with more operating properties due to our limited diversification of our businesses and sources of revenue. Risks Relating to Our Operations in the Gaming Industry in Macau Because our operations will face intense competition in Macau and elsewhere in Asia, we may not be able to compete successfully and we may lose or be unable to gain market share. Our competitors in Macau and elsewhere in Asia include many of the largest gaming, hospitality, leisure and resort companies in the world. Some of these current and future competitors are significantly larger than us and have significantly larger capital and other resources to support their developments and operations in Macau and elsewhere. The hotel, resort and casino businesses are highly competitive in Macau and we expect to encounter intense and increasing competition as other developers and operators develop and open new projects in coming years. Our Macau operations compete with approximately 28 other existing casinos of varying sizes located in Macau as of December 31, 2007. In addition, we expect competition to increase in the near future from local and foreign casino operators who are developing numerous hotel and casino projects in Macau. SJM is one of the three concessionaires in Macau and operates 19 casinos. SJM is controlled by Dr. Stanley Ho, who through SJM and, its parent entity STDM, controlled the monopoly concession on gaming operations in Macau from 1962 to 2002. Dr. Stanley Ho is the father of Mr. Lawrence Ho, our co-chairman and chief executive officer. Dr. Stanley Ho was a director and the chairman of Melco until he resigned from those positions in March 2006. Dr. Stanley Ho remains a shareholder of Melco, and we believe that, for purposes of Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, he was deemed to beneficially own approximately 1.77% of Melco’s outstanding ordinary shares as of December 31, 2007. In February 2007, SJM opened the Grand Lisboa, a resort next to the Hotel Lisboa, one of our main competitors in Macau gaming. Recently, in early February 2008, SJM opened a new casino named Ponte 16. It also announced the construction of Oceanus, a new casino complex near the Macau Ferry Terminal. Venetian Macau, a subsidiary of the U.S.-based Las Vegas Sands Corp., opened Sands Macao in May 2004 and, in August 2007, opened the Venetian Macao, an all-suite hotel, casino and convention center complex, with a Venetian-style theme similar to that of their Las Vegas property. Galaxy operates five casinos and is currently building Galaxy Mega Resort in Cotai. Wynn Macau opened the Wynn Macau casino hotel project in September 2006 which was subsequently expanded in December 2007 and has announced plans to build up to three resorts in Cotai. In December 2007 the joint venture 14 Table of Contents between MGM-Mirage and Ms. Pansy Ho, Dr. Stanley Ho’s daughter and the sister of Mr. Lawrence Ho, opened the MGM Grand Macau, a resort on the Macau peninsula adjacent to the Wynn Macau. Other casinos are expected to be opened by other hotel and entertainment development companies in conjunction with concessionaires who will operate the casino operations. We also compete to some extent with casinos located in other countries, such as Malaysia, North Korea, South Korea, the Philippines and Cambodia, as well as in Australia, New Zealand and elsewhere in the world, including Las Vegas and Atlantic City. In addition, certain countries, such as Singapore, have now legalized casino gaming and others may in the future legalize casino gaming, including Japan, Taiwan and Thailand. Singapore awarded one casino license to Las Vegas Sands and a second casino license to Genting International Bhd. in 2006. We also compete with cruise ships operating out of Hong Kong and other areas of Asia that offer gaming. The proliferation of gaming venues in Southeast Asia could significantly and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our regional competitors also include Crown’s Crown Casino Melbourne and Burswood Casino in Australia and other casino resorts that Melco and Crown may develop elsewhere in Asia outside Macau. Melco and Crown may develop different interests and strategies for projects in Asia under their joint venture which conflict with the interests of our business in Macau or otherwise compete with us for Asian gaming and leisure customers. Gaming is a highly regulated industry in Macau and adverse changes or developments in gaming laws or regulations could be difficult to comply with or significantly increase our costs, which could cause our projects to be unsuccessful. Gaming is a highly regulated industry in Macau. Current laws, such as licensing requirements, tax rates and other regulatory obligations, including for anti-money laundering, could change or become more stringent resulting in additional regulations being imposed upon the gaming operations in the Crown Macau and the City of Dreams casinos, the Macau peninsula site and the Mocha Clubs or a further liberalization of competition being introduced in the gaming industry. Any such adverse developments in the regulation of the gaming industry could be difficult to comply with and significantly increase our costs, which could cause our projects to be unsuccessful. For example, the Macau government has announced its intention to raise the minimum age required for the entrance in casinos in Macau from 18 years of age to 21 years of age. As far as employment is concerned, it was further announced that this measure, when adopted, would be implemented during a three year period in order to allow casino employees to maintain their positions whilst in the process of reaching the minimum required age. If implemented, this could adversely affect our ability to engage sufficient staff for the operation of our projects. Moreover, the Macau government also announced that it intends to restrict the ability of operators to open slot lounges, such as our Mocha Clubs, in residential areas. This policy may limit our ability to find new sites for the operation of new Mocha Clubs on terms acceptable to us. Current Macau laws and regulations concerning gaming and gaming concessions and matters such as prevention of money laundering are, for the most part, fairly recent and there is little precedent on the interpretation of these laws and regulations. We believe that our organizational structure and operations are currently in compliance in all material respects with all applicable laws and regulations of Macau, but we are still in the process of building our internal staff, systems and procedures for the future operation of our City of Dreams and Macau peninsula projects in compliance with gaming regulatory requirements and standards in Macau. These laws and regulations are complex and a court or an administrative or regulatory body may in the future render an interpretation of these laws and regulations, or issue new or modified regulations, that differ from our interpretation, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our activities in Macau are subject to administrative review and approval by various agencies of the Macau government. For example, our activities are subject to the administrative review and approval by the Health Department, Labour Bureau, Public Works Bureau, Fire Department, Finance Department and Macau Government Tourism Office. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain all necessary approvals that may materially affect our business and operations. Macau law permits redress to the courts with respect to administrative actions. However, such redress is largely untested in relation to gaming regulatory issues. 15 Table of Contents In addition to complying with Macau’s local requirements and standards, we may conduct our gaming operations in Macau by implementing certain of the policies and procedures followed by Crown in compliance with Australian gaming regulations, modified where necessary to meet Macau’s local requirements and standards. Those Australian requirements may be more restrictive than those in Macau. This may negatively affect our flexibility and our ability to engage in some activities that would otherwise be permissible in Macau and increase the expenses we incur in connection with regulatory compliance. Under MPBL Gaming’s subconcession, the Macau government may terminate the subconcession under certain circumstances without compensation to MPBL Gaming, which would prevent it from operating casino gaming facilities in Macau and could result in defaults under our indebtedness and a partial or complete loss of our investments in our projects. Under MPBL Gaming’s gaming subconcession, the Macau government has the right, after notifying Wynn Macau, to unilaterally terminate the subconcession in the event of non-compliance by MPBL Gaming with its basic obligations under the subconcession and applicable Macau laws. If such a termination were to occur, MPBL Gaming would be unable to operate casino gaming in Macau. We would also be unable to recover the US$900 million consideration paid to Wynn Macau for the issue of the subconcession. For a list of termination events, please see “Item 4. Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Gaming Regulation, Subconcession Contract”. These events could lead to the termination of MPBL Gaming’s subconcession without compensation to MPBL Gaming. In many of these instances, the subconcession contract does not provide a specific cure period within which any such events may be cured and, instead, we would rely on consultations and negotiations with the Macau government to remedy any such violation. MPBL Gaming has entered into a service agreement with New Cotai Entertainment (Macau) Limited, or New Cotai Entertainment, and New Cotai Entertainment, LLC pursuant to which MPBL Gaming will operate the casino premises in its hotel casino resorts. If New Cotai Entertainment, or other parties with whom we may, in the future, enter into similar agreements were to be found unsuitable or were to undertake actions that are inconsistent with MPBL Gaming’s subconcession terms and requirements, we could suffer penalties, including the termination of the subconcession. Based on information from the Macau government, proposed amendments to the legislation with regard to reversion of casino premises are being considered. We expect that if such amendments take effect, on the expiry or any termination of MPBL Gaming’s subconcession, unless MPBL Gaming’s subconcession were extended, only that portion of casino premises within our developments to be designated with the approval of the Macau government, including all gaming equipment, would revert to the Macau government automatically without compensation to us. Until such amendments come into effect, all of our casino premises and gaming equipment would revert automatically without compensation to us. The subconcession contract contains various general covenants, obligations and other provisions as to which the determination of compliance is subjective. For example, compliance with general and special duties of cooperation, special duties of information, and with obligations foreseen for the execution of our investment plan may be subjective. We cannot assure you that we will perform such covenants in a way that satisfies the requirements of the Macau government and, accordingly, we will be dependent on our continuing communications and good faith negotiations with the Macau government to ensure that we are performing our obligations under the subconcession in a manner that would avoid any violations. Under the subconcession contract, we are required to make a minimum investment in Macau of MOP 4.0 billion (US$499.2 million), including investment in fully developing Crown Macau and the City of Dreams project, by December 2010. According to our financial statements, we believe that the amount we have invested in developing Crown Macau and the City of Dreams project as at December 31, 2007 is in excess of the minimum investment amount criteria as set out under the subconcession contract. We expect to seek the necessary Macau government confirmation of our compliance with such minimum investment amount criteria. If we do not receive confirmation of compliance of this minimum investment amount criteria or if we do not meet the required deadline for completing other conditions in the subconcession contract, for example, due to delays in construction or the inability to finance the completion of the City of Dreams project, we may lose the right to continue operating our 16 Table of Contents properties developed under the subconcession or suffer the termination of the subconcession by the Macau government. Under MPBL Gaming’s subconcession, the Macau government is allowed to request various changes in the plans and specifications of our Macau properties and to make various other decisions and determinations that may be binding on us. For example, the Chief Executive of the Macau SAR has the right to require that we increase MPBL Gaming’s share capital or that we provide certain deposits or other guarantees of performance with respect to the obligations of our Macau subsidiaries in any amount determined by the Macau government to be necessary. MPBL Gaming is limited in its ability to raise additional capital by the need to first obtain the approval of the Macau gaming and governmental authorities before raising certain debt or equity. MPBL Gaming’s ability to incur debt or raise equity may also be restricted by our existing and any future loan facilities. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with these requirements or any other requirements of the Macau government or with the other requirements and obligations imposed by the subconcession. Furthermore, pursuant to the subconcession contract, we are obligated to comply not only with the terms of that agreement, but also with laws, regulations, rulings and orders that the Macau government might promulgate in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with any such laws, regulations, rulings or orders or that any such laws, regulations, rulings or orders would not adversely affect our ability to construct or operate our Macau properties. If any disagreement arises between us and the Macau government regarding the interpretation of, or our compliance with, a provision of the subconcession contract, we will be relying on the consultation and negotiation process with the applicable Macau governmental agency described above. During any such consultation, however, we will be obligated to comply with the terms of the subconcession contract as interpreted by the Macau government. MPBL Gaming’s failure to comply with the terms of its subconcession in a manner satisfactory to the Macau government could result in the termination of its subconcession. We cannot assure you that MPBL Gaming would always be able to operate gaming activities in a manner satisfactory to the Macau government. The loss of its subconcession would prohibit MPBL Gaming from conducting gaming operations in Macau which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and could result in defaults under our indebtedness and a partial or complete loss of our investments in our projects. Currently, there is no precedent on how the Macau government will treat the termination of a concession or subconcession upon the occurrence of any of the circumstances mentioned above. Some of the laws and regulations summarized above have not yet been applied by the Macau government. Therefore, the scope and enforcement of the provisions of Macau’s gaming regulatory system cannot be fully assessed at this time. The Macau government could grant additional rights to conduct gaming in the future, which could significantly increase the already intense competition in Macau and cause us to lose or be unable to gain market share. MPBL Gaming is one of six companies authorized by the Macau government to operate gaming activities in Macau. Although the Macau government has agreed under the existing concession agreements that it will not grant any additional concessions before April 2009 and has publicly stated that only one subconcession may be issued under each concession, we cannot assure you that the Macau government will not change its policies and issue additional concessions or subconcessions at any time in the future. If the Macau government were to allow additional competitors to operate in Macau through the grant of additional concessions or the approval of additional subconcessions, we would face additional competition, which could significantly increase the already intense competition in Macau and cause us to lose or be unable to maintain or gain market share. MPBL Gaming’s subconcession contract expires in 2022 and if we were unable to secure an extension of its subconcession in 2022 or if the Macau government were to exercise its redemption right in 2017, we would be unable to operate casino gaming in Macau. MPBL Gaming’s subconcession contract expires in 2022. Based on information from the Macau government, proposed amendments to the legislation with regard to reversion of casino premises are being considered. We expect that if such amendments take effect, on the expiry or any termination of MPBL Gaming’s subconcession, unless 17 Table of Contents MPBL Gaming’s subconcession were extended, only that portion of casino premises within our developments to be designated with the approval of the Macau government, including all gaming equipment, would automatically revert to the Macau government without compensation to us. Until such amendments come into effect, all our casino premises and gaming equipment would revert automatically without compensation to us. Under the subconcession contract, beginning in 2017, the Macau government has the right to redeem the subconcession contract by providing us with at least one year’s prior notice. In the event the Macau government exercises this redemption right, we would be entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. The standards for the calculation of the amount of such compensation or indemnity would be determined based on the gross revenue generated by City of Dreams during the tax year immediately prior to the redemption, multiplied by the remaining term of the subconcession. We would not receive any further compensation (including for consideration paid to Wynn Macau for the subconcession). We cannot assure you that MPBL Gaming would be able to renew or extend its subconcession contract on terms favorable to us, or at all. We also cannot assure you that if MPBL Gaming’s subconcession were redeemed, the compensation paid would be adequate to compensate us for the loss of future revenues. While MPBL Gaming will not initially be required to pay corporate income taxes on income from gaming operations under the subconcession, this tax exemption will expire in 2011, and it may not be extended. The Macau government has granted to MPBL Gaming the benefit of a corporate tax holiday on gaming income in Macau for five years from 2007 to 2011. When this tax exemption expires, we cannot assure you that it will be extended beyond the expiration date. Furthermore, the Macau Government has granted to our subsidiary Melco Crown (CM) Hotel the declaration of utility purposes benefit, pursuant to which, for a period of 12 years, it is entitled to a vehicle and property tax holiday on any vehicles and immovable property that it owns or has been granted. Additionally, under the tax holiday, this entity will also be allowed to double the maximum rates applicable regarding depreciation and reintegration for purposes of assessment of corporate income tax for the same period of time. We intend to apply for the same tax holiday for our City of Dreams project, but we cannot assure you that it will be granted by the Macau Government on as favorable terms, or at all. We extend credit to a portion of our customers, and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables from our credit customers. We conduct our table gaming activities at our casinos to a limited degree on a credit basis, and expect to continue this practice in the future. This credit is often unsecured, as is customary in our industry. High-end patrons typically are extended more credit than patrons who tend to wager lower amounts. We may not be able to collect all of our gaming receivables from our credit customers. We expect that we will be able to enforce our gaming receivables only in a limited number of jurisdictions, including Macau. As most of our gaming customers are visitors from other jurisdictions, we may not have access to a forum in which we will be able to collect all of our gaming receivables because, among other reasons, courts of many jurisdictions do not enforce gaming debts. We may encounter forums that will refuse to enforce such debts, or we may be unable to locate assets in other jurisdictions against which to seek recovery of gaming debts. The collectability of receivables from international customers could be negatively affected by future business or economic trends or by significant events in the countries in which these customers reside. We may also in given cases have to determine whether aggressive enforcement actions against a customer will unduly alienate the customer and cause the customer to cease playing at our casinos. If we accrue large receivables from the credit extended to our customers, we could suffer a material adverse impact on our operating results if those receivables are deemed uncollectible. In addition, in the event a patron has been extended credit and has lost back to us the amount borrowed and the receivable from that patron is deemed uncollectible, Macau gaming tax will still be payable on the resulting gaming revenue notwithstanding our uncollectible receivable. 18 Table of Contents Our business may face a higher level of volatility due to our focus on the VIP and premium mass market segment of the gaming market. We are currently, and expect to be for the next few years, heavily dependent on the gaming revenues generated from Crown Macau. Crown Macau caters primarily to VIP and premium mass market patrons. The revenues generated from the VIP and premium mass market segment of the gaming market are acutely volatile primarily due to high bets, and the resulting high winnings and losses. As a result, our business may be more volatile from quarter to quarter than that of our competitors and may require higher levels of cage cash in reserve to manage our losses. We depend upon gaming junket operators for a portion of our gaming revenue and if we are unable to establish, maintain and increase the number of successful relationships with junket operators, our ability to attract high-end patrons may be adversely affected. If we are unable to ensure high standards of probity and integrity in the junket operators with whom we are associated, our reputation may suffer or we may be subject to sanctions, including the loss of MPBL Gaming’s subconcession. Junket operators, who organize tours, or junkets, for high-end patrons to casinos in Macau, are responsible for a portion of our gaming revenues in Macau. With the rise in gaming in Macau, the competition for relationships with junket operators has increased. Currently we have agreements in place with approximately 20 junket operators. In addition, Crown has sales and marketing staff in Thailand, Hong Kong, China, Taiwan, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore and Macau devoted to attracting junket business to Crown’s existing casinos, Crown Casino Melbourne and Burswood Casino. There can be no assurance that we will be able to utilize Crown’s relationships with regional junket operators or enter into additional agreements with other junket operators. If we are unable to utilize and develop relationships with junket operators, our ability to grow our gaming revenues will be hampered and we will have to seek alternative ways to develop and maintain relationships with high-end patrons, which may not be as profitable as relationships developed through junket operators. In addition, the reputations of the junket operators we deal with are important to our own reputation and MPBL Gaming’s ability to continue to operate in compliance with its subconcession. While we endeavor to ensure high standards of probity and integrity in the junket operators with whom we are associated, we cannot assure you that the junket operators with whom we are associated will always maintain the high standards that we require. If we were to deal with a junket operator whose probity was in doubt, this may be considered by regulators or investors to reflect negatively on our own probity. If a junket operator falls below our standards, we and our shareholders may suffer harm to our or their reputation, as well as worsened relationships with, and possibly sanctions from, gaming regulators with authority over our operations. We are dependent on the reputation and integrity of the parties with whom we engage in business activities and we cannot assure you that these parties will always maintain high standards or suitability throughout the term of our association with them. Failure to maintain such high standards or suitability may cause us and our shareholders to suffer harm to our and the shareholders’ reputation, as well as impaired relationships with, and possibly sanctions from, gaming regulators. The reputation and integrity of the parties with whom we engage in business activities, in particular those who are engaged in gaming related activities, such as junket operators and developers and hotel operators that do not hold concessions or subconcessions and with which we have or may enter into services agreements, are important to our own reputation and to MPBL Gaming’s ability to continue to operate in compliance with its subconcession. For parties we deal with in gaming related activities, where relevant, the gaming regulators undertake their own probity checks and will reach their own suitability findings in respect of the activities and parties which we intend to associate with. In addition, we also conduct our internal due diligence and evaluation process prior to engaging such parties. Notwithstanding such regulatory probity checks and our own due diligence, we cannot assure you that the parties with whom we are associated will always maintain the high standards that gaming regulators and we require or that such parties will maintain their suitability throughout the term of our association with them. If we were to deal with any party whose probity was in doubt, this may reflect negatively on our own probity when assessed by the gaming regulators. Also, if a party associated with us falls below the gaming regulators’ suitability standards, we and our shareholders may suffer harm to our and the shareholders’ reputation, as well as impaired relationships with, and possibly sanctions from, gaming regulators with authority over our operations. 19 Table of Contents The recently completed consolidation of junket operations under Ama International Limited, or Ama, has resulted in a significant proportion of our business becoming consolidated under one commercial arrangement, and has introduced into Macau the concept of a junket aggregator, either of which could have an adverse impact on our future prospects. Leading junket operators are recognizing superior economics and negotiation leverage from operational scale and market aggregation. The recently completed consolidation of junket operations under Ama has resulted in a significant proportion of our business becoming consolidated under one commercial arrangement, giving Ama significant negotiation leverage which could result in changes in our operational agreement. In addition, duplicate aggregator operations could be launched at competitor properties which could result in the loss of business to such competitors. If we suffered a loss of business to a competitor, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and the price of our ADSs. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that anti-money laundering policies that we have implemented, and compliance with applicable anti-money laundering laws, will be effective to prevent our casino operations from being exploited for money laundering purposes. Macau’s free port, offshore financial services and free movements of capital create an environment whereby Macau’s casinos could be exploited for money laundering purposes. We have implemented anti-money laundering policies in compliance with all applicable anti-money laundering laws and regulations in Macau. However, we cannot assure you that any such policies will be effective to prevent our casino operations from being exploited for money laundering purposes. Any incidents of money laundering, accusations of money laundering or regulatory investigations into possible money laundering activities involving us, our employees, our junket operators or our customers could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business, cash flows, financial condition, prospects and results of operations. If Macau’s transportation infrastructure does not adequately support the development of Macau’s gaming and leisure industry, visitation to Macau may not increase as currently expected, which may cause our projects to be unsuccessful. Macau consists of a peninsula and two islands and is connected to China by two border crossings. Macau has an international airport and connections to China and Hong Kong by road, ferry and helicopter. To support Macau’s planned transformation into a mass-market gaming and leisure destination, the frequency of bus, plane and ferry services to Macau must increase significantly. In addition, Macau’s internal road system is prone to congestion and must be substantially improved to support projected increases in traffic. While various projects are under development to improve Macau’s internal and external transportation links, these projects may not be approved, financed or constructed in time to handle the projected increase in demand for transportation or at all, which could impede the expected increase in visitation to Macau and cause our projects to be unsuccessful. Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness Our current, projected and potential future indebtedness could impair our financial condition, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our significant leverage. We have incurred and expect to incur, based on current budgets and estimates, secured long-term indebtedness, including the following: • approximately US$1.75 billion under the City of Dreams Project Facility primarily for the development and construction of City of Dreams, of which an amount equivalent to US$500 million has been drawn down as of December 31, 2007; • financing for a significant portion of the costs of developing the Macau peninsula site in an amount which is as yet undetermined; and • financing for a significant portion of the costs of developing an apartment hotel complex at the City of Dreams site, in an amount which is as yet undetermined. 20 Table of Contents Our significant indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital needs, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes; • require us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which would reduce the funds available to us for our operations; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • subject us to higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates to the extent a portion of our debt will bear interest at variable rates; • cause us to incur additional expenses by hedging interest rate exposures of our debt and exposure to hedging counterparties’ failure to pay under such hedging arrangements, which would reduce the funds available for us for our operations; and • in the event we or one of our subsidiaries were to default, result in the loss of all or a substantial portion of our and our subsidiaries’ assets, over which our lenders have taken or will take security. We currently do not generate sufficient cash flow to service our existing and projected indebtedness and we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service obligations because our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make scheduled payments due on our existing and anticipated debt obligations and to fund planned capital expenditures and development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. Our current operations are insufficient to support the debt service on our current and anticipated debt. We will require timely completion and generation of operating cash flow from our projects to service our current and future projected indebtedness. Our ability to obtain cash to service our existing and projected debt is subject to a range of economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our existing and projected debt obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. We cannot assure you that any refinancing or restructuring would be possible, that any assets could be sold, or, if sold, of the timing of the sales or the amount of proceeds that would be realized from those sales. We cannot assure you that additional financing could be obtained on acceptable terms, if at all, or would be permitted under the terms of our various debt instruments then in effect. Our failure to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our existing and projected debt obligations, or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms, would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The terms of our and our subsidiaries’ indebtedness may restrict our current and future operations and harm our ability to complete our projects and grow our business operations to compete successfully against our competitors. The City of Dreams Project Facility and associated facility and security documents that MPBL Gaming has entered into also contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on MPBL Gaming, and therefore, effectively on us. The covenants in the City of Dreams Project Facility restrict or limit, among other things, our and our subsidiaries’ ability to: • incur additional debt, including guarantees; • create security or liens; • dispose of assets; • make certain acquisitions and investments; 21 Table of Contents • pay dividends, including to us, during the construction of the City of Dreams project; • make other restricted payments or apply revenues earned in one part of our operations to fund development costs or cover operating losses in another part of our operations; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • engage in new businesses; • issue preferred stock; and • enter into transactions with shareholders and affiliates. In addition, the restrictions under the City of Dreams Project Facility contain financial covenants, including requirements that we satisfy certain tests or ratios in the future, such as: • maximum capital expenditures test; • minimum interest and debt service coverage ratios; and • a maximum leverage ratio. These covenants may restrict our ability to operate and restrict our ability to incur additional debt or other financing we may require and impede our growth. Draw down of advances under our debt facilities involve satisfaction of extensive conditions precedent and our failure to satisfy such conditions precedent will result in our inability to access loan advances under such facilities. We do not guarantee that we are able to satisfy all conditions precedent under our current or future debt facilities. Our current and future debt facilities require and will require satisfaction of extensive conditions precedent prior to the advance of loans under such facilities. The satisfaction of such conditions precedent may involve actions of third parties and matters outside of our control, such as government consents, approvals and issue of land concessions. If there is a breach of any terms or conditions of our debt facilities or other obligations and they are not cured or capable of being cured, such conditions precedent will not be satisfied. The inability to draw down loan advances in any debt facility may result in funding shortfall in our projects and we may not be able to fulfill our obligations and complete our projects as planned; such events may result in an event of default under such debt facility and may also trigger cross default in our other obligations and debt facilities. We do not guarantee that all conditions precedent to draw down loan advances under our debt facilities will be satisfied in a timely manner or at all. If we are unable to draw down loan advances under the City of Dreams Project Facility, we may have to find a new group of lenders and negotiate new financing terms or consider other financing alternatives. If required, it is possible that new financing would not be available or would have to be procured on substantially less attractive terms, which could damage the economic viability of the City of Dreams project. The need to arrange such alternative financing would likely also delay the construction of the City of Dreams, which would affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Our failure to comply with the covenants contained in our or our subsidiaries’ indebtedness, including failure as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default that could materially and adversely affect our cash flow, operating results and our financial condition. If there were an event of default under one of our or our subsidiaries’ debt facilities, the holders of the debt on which we defaulted could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to become due and payable immediately. In addition, any event of default or declaration of acceleration under one debt facility could result in an event of default under one or more of our other debt instruments, with the result that all of our debt would be in default and accelerated. We cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt facilities, either upon maturity or if accelerated upon an event of default, or that we would be able to refinance or restructure the payments on those debt facilities. Further, if we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness at our subsidiaries that own or operate our properties, the lenders under those debt facilities could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness, which will constitute 22 Table of Contents substantially all the assets and shares of our subsidiaries. In that event, any proceeds received upon a realization of the collateral would be applied first to amounts due under those debt instruments. The value of the collateral may not be sufficient to repay all of our indebtedness, which could result in the loss of your investment as a shareholder. Current turmoil in the credit markets may affect our ability to maintain current financing or obtain future financing which could result in delays in our project development schedule which could impact on our ability to generate revenue from present and future projects. The current turmoil in the credit markets originating from the negative conditions in the U.S. subprime mortgage market may adversely affect our ability to maintain our current debt facility and to obtain additional or future financing for our current and future projects. If we are unable to maintain our current debt facility or obtain suitable financing for our current or future projects, this could cause delays in, or prevent completion of, the development of such projects. This may limit our ability to expand our business and may adversely impact our ability to generate revenue. Risks Relating to Our Business and to Operating in Macau Conducting business in Macau has certain political and economic risks that may lead to significant volatility and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. All of our operations are in Macau. Accordingly, our business development plans, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected by significant political, social and economic developments in Macau and in China and by changes in government policies or changes in laws and regulations or the interpretations of these laws and regulations. In particular, our operating results may be adversely affected by: • changes in Macau’s and China’s political, economic and social conditions; • changes in policies of the government or changes in laws and regulations, or in the interpretation or enforcement of these laws and regulations; • changes in foreign exchange regulations; • measures that may be introduced to control inflation, such as interest rate increases; and • changes in the rate or method of taxation. Our operations in Macau are also exposed to the risk of changes in laws and policies that govern operations of Macau-based companies. Tax laws and regulations may also be subject to amendment or different interpretation and implementation, thereby adversely affecting our profitability after tax. Further, certain terms of our gaming subconcession may be subject to renegotiations with the Macau government in the future, including amounts we will be obligated to pay the Macau government in order to continue operations. MPBL Gaming’s obligations to make certain payments to the Macau government under the terms of its subconcession include a fixed annual premium per year and a variable premium depending on the number and type of gaming tables and gaming machines that we operate. The results of those renegotiations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Former Secretary for Transport and Public Works of Macau, Mr. Ao Man-Long, was convicted to a prison term of 27 years on charges involving corruption, bribery, irregular financial activities and money laundering. Those being tried in cases connected with the conviction of Mr. Ao are related to local companies to whom several major public works and services contracts were awarded. During the investigation, additional individuals related to local Macau companies to whom land had been granted in land exchange procedures were detained and charged. The investigation and judicial proceedings are ongoing. After the arrest and Mr. Ao’s removal from his post as Secretary for Transport and Public Works of Macau, which gave him jurisdiction over all land grants and public works and infrastructure projects in Macau, in December 2006, the Chief Executive of Macau personally assumed such role until Mr. Lao Sio-Io was appointed the new Secretary for Transport and Public Works in March 2007. The Macau government has granted us a lease for a plot of land for Crown Macau, and has provided us the final terms of a land lease agreement for the development rights for two adjacent land parcels in Cotai for the City of Dreams site which we have accepted. However, we have yet to receive either a formal grant of a land concession or an occupancy 23 Table of Contents permit for the City of Dreams site and we do not have a committed timetable for the remaining step required for completion of the land grant process. Moreover, we will apply for approval from the Macau government to increase the developable gross floor area of the City of Dreams site after the site is granted to us. In addition, the Macau peninsula project is at an even earlier stage of development, and if we acquire the site we would need to obtain similar land concession modifications and development approvals from the Macau government. We cannot predict whether Mr. Ao’s removal and conviction, and any further prosecutions and investigations, will adversely affect the functioning of the Macau Land, Public Works and Transports Bureau, any approvals or land concession grants that are pending before it, or for which applications may be made in the future (including with respect to our projects), or will give rise to additional scrutiny or review of any approvals or land concessions, including those for City of Dreams, that were previously approved or granted through this Bureau and the Secretary for Transport and Public Works of Macau. As we expect a significant number of patrons to come to our properties from China, general economic conditions and policies in China could have a significant impact on our financial prospects. Any slowdown in economic growth or reversal of China’s current policies of liberalizing restrictions on travel and currency movements could adversely impact the number of visitors from China to our properties in Macau as well as the amounts they are willing to spend in our casinos. Because we depend upon our properties in one market for all of our cash flow, we will be subject to greater risks than a gaming company that operates in more markets. We will be primarily dependent upon Mocha Clubs, Crown Macau, City of Dreams and the Macau peninsula project for our cash flow. Given that our current operations are and will be conducted only at properties in Macau, we will be subject to greater risks than a gaming company with operating properties in several markets. These risks include: • dependence on the gaming and leisure market in Macau and limited diversification of our businesses and sources of revenue; • a decline in economic, competitive and political conditions in Macau or generally in Asia; • inaccessibility to Macau due to inclement weather, road construction or closure of primary access routes; • a decline in air or ferry passenger traffic to Macau due to higher ticket costs, fears concerning travel or otherwise; • changes in Macau governmental laws and regulations, or interpretations thereof, including gaming laws and regulations; • natural and other disasters, including typhoons, outbreaks of infectious diseases or terrorism, affecting Macau; • that the number of visitors to Macau does not increase at the rate that we have expected; and • a decrease in gaming activities at our properties. Any of these conditions or events could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our gaming operations could be adversely affected by restrictions on the export of the Renminbi and limitations of the Pataca exchange markets. Gaming operators in Macau are currently prohibited from accepting wagers in Renminbi, the currency of China. There are currently restrictions on the export of the Renminbi outside of mainland China, including to Macau. For example, Chinese traveling abroad for six months or less are only allowed to take the equivalent of up to US$5,000 out of China. Restrictions on the export of the Renminbi may impede the flow of gaming customers from China to Macau, inhibit the growth of gaming in Macau and negatively impact our operations. 24 Table of Contents Our revenues in Macau are denominated in H.K. dollars and Patacas, the legal currency of Macau. Although currently permitted, we cannot assure you that H.K. dollars and Patacas will continue to be freely exchangeable into U.S. dollars. Also, because the currency market for Patacas is relatively small and undeveloped, our ability to convert large amounts of Patacas into U.S. dollars over a relatively short period of time may be limited. As a result, we may experience difficulty in converting Patacas into U.S. dollars. Terrorism and the uncertainty of war, economic downturns and other factors affecting discretionary consumer spending and leisure travel may reduce visitation to Macau and harm our operating results. The strength and profitability of our business depends on consumer demand for casino resorts and leisure travel in general. Changes in Asian consumer preferences or discretionary consumer spending could harm our business. Terrorist acts could have a negative impact on international travel and leisure expenditures, including lodging, gaming and tourism. We cannot predict the extent to which future terrorist acts may affect us, directly or indirectly. In addition to fears of war and future acts of terrorism, other factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, including general economic conditions, amounts of disposable consumer income, fears of recession and lack of consumer confidence in the economy, may negatively impact our business. Consumer demand for hotel casino resorts and the type of luxury amenities we plan to offer are highly sensitive to downturns in the economy. An extended period of reduced discretionary spending and/or disruptions or declines in airline travel could significantly harm our operations. An outbreak of the highly pathogenic avian influenza caused by the H5N1 virus (“avian flu” or “bird flu”), Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (“SARS”) or other contagious disease may have an adverse effect on the economies of certain Asian countries and may adversely affect our results of operations. During 2004, large parts of Asia experienced unprecedented outbreaks of avian flu which, according to a report of the World Health Organization, or WHO, in 2004, placed the world at risk of an influenza pandemic with high mortality and social and economic disruption. As of October 8, 2007, the WHO has confirmed a total of 202 fatalities in a total number of 330 cases reported to the WHO, which only reports laboratory confirmed cases of avian flu since 2003. In particular, Guangdong Province, PRC, which is located across the Zhuhai Border from Macau, has confirmed several cases of avian flu. Currently, fully effective avian flu vaccines have not yet been developed and there is evidence that the H5N1 virus is evolving so there can be no assurance that an effective vaccine can be discovered in time to protect against the potential avian flu pandemic. In the first half of 2003, certain countries in Asia experienced an outbreak of SARS, a highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia, which seriously interrupted economic activities and caused the demand for goods and services to plummet in the affected regions. There can be no assurance that an outbreak of avian flu, SARS or other contagious disease or the measures taken by the governments of affected countries against such potential outbreaks, will not seriously interrupt our gaming operations or visitation to Macau, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The perception that an outbreak of avian flu, SARS or other contagious disease may occur again may also have an adverse effect on the economic conditions of countries in Asia. Macau is susceptible to severe typhoons that may disrupt our operations. Macau is susceptible to severe typhoons. Macau consists of a peninsula and two islands off the coast of mainland China. In the event of a major typhoon or other natural disaster in Macau, our properties and business may be severely disrupted and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Although we or our operating subsidiaries do carry insurance coverage with respect to these events, our coverage may not be sufficient to fully indemnify us against all direct and indirect costs, including loss of business, that could result from substantial damage to, or partial or complete destruction of, our properties or other damages to the infrastructure or economy of Macau. Any fluctuation in the value of the H.K. dollar, U.S. dollar or Pataca may adversely affect our expenses and profitability. Although we will have certain expenses and revenues denominated in Patacas in Macau, our revenues and expenses will be denominated predominantly in Hong Kong dollars and in connection with most of our 25 Table of Contents indebtedness and certain expenses, U.S. dollars. We expect to incur significant debt denominated in U.S. dollars, and the costs associated with servicing and repaying such debt will be denominated in U.S. dollars. The value of the H.K. dollar and Patacas against the U.S. dollar may fluctuate and may be affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions. Although the exchange rate between the H.K. dollar to the U.S. dollar has been pegged since 1983 and the Pataca is pegged to the H.K. dollar, we cannot assure you that the H.K. dollar will remain pegged to the U.S. dollar and that the Pataca will remain pegged to the H.K. dollar. Any significant fluctuations in the exchange rates between H.K. dollars or Patacas to U.S. dollars may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition. For example, to the extent that we are required to convert U.S. dollar financings into H.K. dollars or Patacas for our operations, fluctuations in the exchange rates between H.K. dollars or Patacas against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the amounts we receive from the conversion. We have not used any forward contracts, futures, swaps or currency borrowings to hedge our exposure to foreign currency risk. Contract Parties not securing Adequate Financing During the course of our business, we may enter into agreements with contract parties from which we may derive income in relation to the operation of gaming business. The inability of such contract parties to raise sufficient funds to develop and/or undertake the relevant project and gaming operations may affect our ability to derive such income as contracted for in the relevant agreements, and this may have an adverse impact on our business. Risks Relating to Our Corporate Structure and Ownership Our existing shareholders will have a substantial influence over us and their interests in our business may be different than yours. Melco and Crown together own the substantial majority of our outstanding shares, with each beneficially holding 37.9% of our outstanding ordinary shares (exclusive of any ordinary shares represented by ADSs held by Melco PBL SPV Limited or the SPV) as of the date of this Form 20-F. Melco and Crown have entered into a shareholders deed regarding the voting of their shares of our company under which each will agree to, among other things, vote its shares in favor of three nominees to our board designated by the other. On May 8, 2007, PBL announced its intention to separate into two Australian listed companies. On July 27, 2007, a variation deed was entered into to provide for the amendment and restatement of the shareholders deed between Melco and PBL in relation to us to contemplate the separation of PBL into separate listed gaming and media companies and the fact that PBL Asia Investments Limited (which holds PBL’s interest in MPEL), on completion of the PBL separation, became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Crown Limited, an entity which is listed on the Australian Stock Exchange and which owns all of the gaming assets and investments previously owned by PBL. The effective date of the amended and restated shareholders’ deed is December 12, 2007, the date on which the PBL separation took effect. Crown now owns the gaming businesses, including the 37.9% direct interest in MPEL (exclusive of any ordinary shares represented by ADSs held by the SPV) previously held by PBL. As a result, Melco and Crown, if they act together, will have the power, among other things, to elect directors to our board, including six of ten directors who are designated nominees of Crown and Melco, appoint and change our management, affect our legal and capital structure and our day-to-day operations, approve material mergers, acquisitions, dispositions and other business combinations and approve any other material transactions and financings. These actions may be taken in many cases without the approval of independent directors or other shareholders and the interests of these shareholders may conflict with your interests as minority shareholders. If Melco or Crown provides shareholder support to us in the form of shareholder loans or provides credit support by guaranteeing our obligations, they may become our creditors with different interests than shareholders with only equity interests in us. The concentration of controlling ownership of our shares may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our ADSs. 26 Table of Contents Melco and Crown may pursue additional casino projects in Asia, which, along with their current operations, may compete with our projects in Macau which may have adverse consequences to us and the interests of our minority shareholders. Melco and Crown may take action to construct and operate new gaming projects located in other countries in the Asian region, which, along with their current operations, may compete with our projects in Macau and could have adverse consequences to us and the interests of our minority shareholders. We could face competition from these other gaming projects. We also face competition from regional competitors, which include Crown’s Crown Casino Melbourne and Burswood Casino in Australia. We expect to continue to receive significant support from both Melco and Crown in terms of their local experience, operating skills, international experience and high standards. Specifically, we have support arrangements with Melco and Crown under which they provide us technical expertise in connection with the development of the City of Dreams and the Macau peninsula projects and the operations of the Crown Macau and the Mocha Clubs businesses. Should Melco or Crown decide to focus more attention on casino gaming projects located in other areas of Asia that may be expanding or commencing their gaming industries, or should economic conditions or other factors result in a significant decrease in gaming revenues and number of patrons in Macau, Melco or Crown may make strategic decisions to focus on their other projects rather than us, which could adversely affect our growth. We cannot guarantee you that Melco and Crown will make strategic and other decisions which do not adversely affect our business. Business conducted through joint ventures involves certain risks. We were initially formed as a 50/50 joint venture between Melco and PBL as their exclusive vehicle to carry on casino, gaming machines and casino hotel operations in Macau. As a joint venture controlled by Melco and Crown, there are special risks associated with the possibility that Melco and Crown may: (1) have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours or that are inconsistent with each other’s interests or goals, causing disagreement between them or between them and us which harms our business; (2) have operations and projects elsewhere in Asia that compete with our businesses in Macau and for available resources and management attention within the joint venture group; (3) take actions contrary to our policies or objectives; (4) be unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations under the relevant joint venture or shareholders’ deed; or (5) have financial difficulties. In addition, there is no assurance that the laws and regulations relating to foreign investment in Melco’s or Crown’s governing jurisdictions will not be altered in such a manner as to result in a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Changes in our share ownership, including a change of control or a change in the amounts or relative percentages of our shares owned by Melco and Crown, could result in our inability to draw loans or events of default under our indebtedness. The City of Dreams Project Facility includes provisions under which we may be unable to meet the conditions to draw loans or may suffer an event of default upon the occurrence of a change of control with respect to MPBL Gaming, or a decline in the aggregate indirect holdings of MPBL Gaming shares by Melco and Crown below certain thresholds. These provisions are most restrictive during the time when our projects have not commenced commercial operation. Any occurrence of these events could be outside our control and could result in defaults and cross-defaults which cause the termination and acceleration of up to all of our credit facilities and potential enforcement of remedies by our lenders, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are a holding company and our only material sources of cash are and are expected to be dividends, distributions and payments under shareholder loans from our subsidiaries. We are a holding company with no material business operations of our own. Our only significant asset is the capital stock of our subsidiaries. We conduct virtually all of our business operations through our subsidiaries. Accordingly, our only material sources of cash are dividends, distributions and payments with respect to our ownership interests in or shareholder loans that we may make to our subsidiaries that are derived from the earnings and cash flow generated by our operating properties. Our subsidiaries might not generate sufficient earnings and cash flow to pay dividends, distributions or payments under shareholder loans in the future. In addition, our 27 Table of Contents subsidiaries’ debt instruments and other agreements, including those that we have entered into in connection with the City of Dreams project, limit or prohibit, or are expected to limit or prohibit, certain payments of dividends, other distributions or payments under shareholder loans to us. Crown’s investment in our company is subject to Australian regulatory review, and if Australian regulators were to find that we, Crown or Melco failed to comply with certain regulatory requirements and standards, then Crown may be required to withdraw from the joint venture. Crown, through its wholly owned subsidiary, Crown Melbourne Limited, owns and operates the Crown Casino Melbourne in Australia. Crown Melbourne Limited holds a casino license issued under legislation in the State of Victoria, Australia. Crown, through its wholly owned subsidiary, Burswood Nominees Limited, owns and operates the Burswood Casino in Perth, Australia. Burswood Nominees Limited holds a casino gaming license issued under legislation in the State of Western Australia, Australia. The Victorian Commission for Gambling Regulation, or VCGR, has power under the Casino Control Act 1991 (Vic) to undertake general investigations of a gaming licensee and to report its findings to the Minister for Gaming in Victoria. Section 28 of the Casino Control Act requires Crown Melbourne Limited to seek the approval of the VCGR for any person who is to become an “associate” of Crown Melbourne Limited. An “associate” is a person or entity who by shareholding or directorship or managerial position is able to exercise significant influence over the management of the casino. The VCGR must satisfy itself that the “associate” is a suitable person to be associated with the management of the casino. Crown has been approved by the VCGR as an “associate” of Crown Melbourne Limited. Section 28A requires the VCGR to monitor “associates” to ensure that they continue to be suitable to be associated with the holder of a casino license. To that end the VCGR may investigate any person or entity who has a business association with Crown to determine if the business associate is of good repute and of sound financial resources. If, as a result of such investigation, the VCGR determines that, by reason of its business association, Crown has ceased to be suitable as an “associate” of Crown Melbourne Limited, then the VCGR can direct Crown to cease the business association or can direct Crown to terminate its “association” with Crown Melbourne Limited. Similar to the situation in Victoria, the Western Australian Gaming and Wagering Commission, or the WAGWC, has power under the Casino Control Act 1984 (WA) to undertake general investigations of the holder of the Burswood Nominees Limited license and to report its findings to the Minister for Gaming in Western Australia. If the WAGWC were to determine that Burswood Nominees Limited had ceased to be a suitable person to hold its license, the WAGWC has powers similar to those of the VCGR to issue a “show cause” notice and then can either suspend or cancel the Burswood Nominees Limited license. The WAGWC has similar obligations to the VCGR to approve and monitor “close associates” of Burswood Nominees Limited. “Close associates” in the Western Australian Act has a substantially similar meaning to “associates” in the Victorian Act, although the Western Australian Act makes no specific reference to business associates of “close associates” in the same way as the Victorian Act. Crown has been approved as a “close associate” of Burswood Nominees Limited. If the WAGWC were to determine that Crown had ceased to be a suitable entity to be such a “close associate”, then the WAGWC could direct Crown to terminate its “close association” with Burswood Nominees Limited. The VCGR and WAGWC announced in August 2006 that, following the completion of their investigations, they have no objections to Crown’s joint venture with Melco. However, we cannot assure you that any future investigation by the VCGR or WAGWC would not result in a direction to either terminate the business association between Crown and Melco or to terminate the association between Crown, on the one hand, and Crown Melbourne Limited or Burswood Nominees Limited, on the other hand. If actions by us or our subsidiaries or by Melco or Crown fail to comply with Australian regulatory requirements and standards, or if there are changes in Australian gaming laws and regulations or the interpretation or enforcement of such laws and regulations, Crown may be required to withdraw from its joint venture with Melco or limit its involvement in one or more aspects of our gaming operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Withdrawal by Crown from its joint venture with Melco could cause the failure of conditions to drawing loans under our credit facilities or the occurrence of events of default under our credit facilities or as contemplated by our founders under their joint venture arrangement. 28 Table of Contents Risks Relating to the ADSs The trading price of our ADSs has been volatile and may continue to be volatile regardless of our operating performance. The trading price of our ADSs has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. During the period from December 19, 2006, the first day on which our ADSs were quoted on the Nasdaq Global Market, until April 1, 2008, the trading prices of our ADSs ranged from US$8.63 to US$22.20 per ADS and the closing sale price on April 1, 2008 was US$12.69 per ADS. The market price for our ADSs may continue to be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • uncertainties or delays relating to the financing, completion and successful operation of our projects; • developments in the Macau market or other Asian gaming markets, including the announcement or completion of major new projects by our competitors; • regulatory developments affecting us or our competitors; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other gaming and leisure industry companies; • addition or departure of our executive officers and key personnel; • fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar, Hong Kong dollar, Pataca and Renminbi; • release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares or ADSs; and • sales or perceived sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. We currently do not intend to pay dividends, and we cannot assure you that we will make dividend payments in the future. We may pay dividends to shareholders in the future; however, such payments will depend upon a number of factors, including our results of operations, earnings, capital requirements and surplus, general financial conditions, contractual restrictions and other factors considered relevant by our board of directors. We currently intend to retain all of our earnings to finance the development and expansion of our business. Accordingly, we do not intend to declare or pay cash dividends on our ordinary shares in the near to medium term. Except as permitted under the Cayman Islands Companies Law (as amended) and the common law of the Cayman Islands, we are not permitted to distribute dividends unless we have a profit, realized or unrealized, or a reserve set aside from profits which the directors of our company determine is no longer needed. We currently have no reserve set aside from profits for the payment of dividends. We cannot assure you that we will make any dividend payments on our ordinary shares in the future. Our ability to pay dividends, and our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends to us, may be further subject to restrictive covenants contained in the City of Dreams Project Facility, and in other facility agreements governing indebtedness we and our subsidiaries may incur. Substantial future sales or perceived sales of our ADSs in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. Upon completion of our follow-on offering, we had 1,320,938,904 ordinary shares outstanding, including 320,938,904 ordinary shares represented by 106,979,364 ADSs. All ADSs sold in the follow-on offering were freely transferable without restriction or additional registration under the Securities Act. All of the ordinary shares beneficially held by Melco and Crown are available for sale, subject to 29 Table of Contents volume and other restrictions, as applicable, under Rule 144 and Rule 701 under the Securities Act and subject to the terms of their shareholders’ deed. To the extent these shares are sold into the market, the market price of our ADSs could decline. In September 2007, Melco and PBL (Crown’s predecessor), acting through the SPV, offered an aggregate of US$250 million of exchangeable bonds due 2012 (the “Bonds”). Under the terms of these Bonds, holders of the Bonds have the right, among other things, to exchange their Bonds into Exchange ADSs during the period September 10, 2008 through August 31, 2012 at an initial exchange price of US$17.19 per Exchange ADS, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances. In connection with the issuance of the Bonds, we agreed to file and maintain an effective registration statement for the Exchange ADSs. We filed a registration statement on Form F-3 on January 25, 2008, in part, to satisfy this obligation. To the extent that the bondholders exchange such Bonds for Exchange ADSs, and sell those Exchange ADSs into the market, the market price of our ADSs could decline. In addition, Melco and Crown have the right to cause us to register the sale of their shares under the Securities Act, subject to the terms of their shareholders’ deed. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in these shares becoming freely tradable as ADSs without restriction under the Securities Act immediately upon the effectiveness of the registration. Sales of these registered shares in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Holders of ADSs have fewer rights than shareholders and must act through the depositary to exercise those rights. Holders of ADSs do not have the same rights of our shareholders and may only exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares of the depositary and in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under our amended and restated articles of association, the minimum notice period required to convene a general meeting is seven days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw your ordinary shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your ADSs. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ADSs are not voted as you requested. In addition, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to convene a shareholder meeting. You may be subject to limitations on transfers of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings and you may not receive cash dividends if it is unlawful or impractical to make them available to you. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary bank will not make rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act, or exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with 30 Table of Contents respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. In addition, the depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is unlawful, inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute such property and you will not receive such distribution. We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than that under U.S. law, you may have less protection for your shareholder rights than you would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law (as amended) and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as that from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary duties of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a U.S. public company. You may have difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us. We are a Cayman Islands exempted company and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. All of our current operations, and administrative and corporate functions are conducted in Macau and Hong Kong. In addition, substantially all of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in Cayman Islands, Macau and Hong Kong courts judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands, Macau or Hong Kong would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. In addition, it is uncertain whether such Cayman Islands, Macau or Hong Kong courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, Macau or Hong Kong against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. We may be treated as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders. We believe that we were not in 2007, and we do not currently expect to be in 2008, a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, because this determination is made annually at the end of each taxable year and is dependent upon a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, 31 Table of Contents including the value of our assets and the amount and type of our income, there can be no assurance that we will not become a PFIC or that the Internal Revenue Service of the United States will agree with our conclusion regarding our PFIC status. If we are a PFIC in any year, U.S. Holders of the ADSs or ordinary shares could suffer certain adverse United States federal income tax consequences. See “Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation — Passive Foreign Investment Company”. 