D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Company and Our Industry As polysilicon supply increases, the corresponding increase in the global supply of photovoltaic (PV) modules may cause substantial downward pressure on the price of such products and reduce our revenues and earnings. Polysilicon is an essential raw material used in the production of solar cells and modules. Prior to the second half of 2008, there was an industry-wide shortage of polysilicon, primarily as a result of the growing demand for solar power products. According to Solarbuzz, an independent solar energy research and consulting firm, the average long-term supply contract price of polysilicon increased from approximately $60-$65 per kilogram delivered in 2007 to $60-$75 per kilogram in 2008. In addition, according to Solarbuzz, spot prices for solar grade polysilicon were in the range of $230-$375 per kilogram for most of the first half of 2008 and rose to a peak of $450-$475 per kilogram by mid-2008. Increases in the price of polysilicon have in the past increased our production costs, and any significant price increase in the future may adversely impact our business and results of operations. Due to the historical scarcity of polysilicon, supply chain management and financial strength were the key barriers to entry. In late 2008 and 2009, however, newly available polysilicon capacity has resulted in an increased supply of polysilicon, which created a downward pressure on the price of polysilicon. According to Solarbuzz, the average initial price range of long-term polysilicon supply contracts decreased to $50-$60 in the fourth quarter of 2009, and spot prices for solar grade polysilicon decreased rapidly to $150-$200 per kilogram by the beginning of 2009, and further declined to $55-$60 per kilogram by the end of 2009. However, we cannot assure you that the price of polysilicon will continue to decline or remain at its current levels, especially if the global solar power market regains its growth momentum. As the shortage of polysilicon eases, industry barriers to entry become less significant and PV module production may increase globally. A decrease in polysilicon prices and an increase in PV module production may result in substantial downward pressure on the price of PV modules. Such price reductions could have a negative impact on our revenues and earnings, and materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may be adversely affected by volatile market and industry trends, in particular, the demand for our solar power products may decline, which may reduce our revenues and earnings. We are affected by solar energy market and industry trends. In the fourth quarter of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009, the global solar power industry experienced a precipitous decline in demand due to decreased availability of financing for downstream buyers of solar power products as a result of the global economic crisis. As a result, increased manufacturing capacity combined with decreased demand caused a decline in the prices of solar power products. The prices of solar power products further declined for the remainder of 2009 primarily due to decreased prices of polysilicon and reclaimable silicon raw materials and increased manufacturing capacity. 6 Table of Contents During the same period, however, lowered costs of raw materials have reduced the cost of producing solar power products. As the effect of the global economic crisis subsided through 2009, the combination of increased availability of financing for downstream buyers and decreased average selling prices of solar power products contributed to an overall increase in demand during the second half of 2009 for solar power products compared to the first quarter of 2009. However, if demand for solar power products declines again and the supply of solar power products continues to grow, the average selling price of our products will be materially and adversely affected. The demand for solar power products is also influenced by macroeconomic factors such as the global economic downturn, the supply and prices of other energy products, such as oil, coal and natural gas, as well as government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry. A decrease in oil prices, for example, may reduce demand for investment in alternative energy. The global economic downturn, which affects the availability of financing, also contributed to decreased sales and shipments of solar power products and the slowdown of the large solar project market segments. If these negative market and industry trends continue and the price of PV modules continues to decrease as a result, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We continue to rely on a limited number of third-party suppliers and manufacturers for certain raw materials for our products and toll services, which could prevent us from delivering our products to our customers within required time frames and result in sales and installation delays, cancellations, liquidated damages and loss of market share. We purchase polysilicon from a limited number of domestic and international suppliers and we source or contract toll services from third party manufacturers to manufacture some of our ingots and wafers. If we fail to develop or maintain our relationships with these third party suppliers or manufacturers, we may be unable to manufacture our products timely or our products may only be available at a higher cost or after a long delay. If we do not deliver products to our customers within the required time frames, we may experience order cancellations, loss of market share and legal action. Furthermore, the global economic crisis and the resulting decrease in availability of financing had a significant negative impact on suppliers and manufacturers of raw materials. Suppliers typically require a significant amount of cash to fund their production and operation. The suppliers also require a significant amount of cash to meet future capital requirements, including the expansion of manufacturing facilities, as well as research and development activities. The inability of our suppliers to access capital or the insolvency of our suppliers could lead to their failure to deliver raw materials to us. Our inability to obtain raw materials in a timely manner from suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. 7 Table of Contents Our costs and expenses may increase as a result of entering into fixed price, prepaid arrangements with our suppliers. Due to the industry-wide shortage of polysilicon experienced prior to 2009, we have purchased polysilicon using short-term, medium-term and long-term contracts from a limited number of international and domestic suppliers. From the fourth quarter of 2008, the price of polysilicon decreased rapidly due to the increased supply of polysilicon resulting from intensive investments in silicon manufacturing. As a result of such decrease in polysilicon prices in the market in late 2008 and early 2009, we renegotiated most of our medium-term and long-term contracts to reduce the purchase price, thereby reducing our costs. However, if the prices under our amended medium-term or long-term supply agreements continue to be higher than the market prices, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage vis-a-vis our competitors, and our earnings could decline. In addition, if demand for our PV modules decreases and such supply agreements require us to purchase more polysilicon than required to meet our actual customer demand over time, we may incur costs associated with carrying excess inventory. To the extent we are not able to pass these increased costs and expenses on to our customers, our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Some of the suppliers of polysilicon with whom we have entered into long-term contracts have limited operating experience in polysilicon production and may not be able to produce polysilicon of sufficient quantity and quality or on schedule to meet our manufacturing requirements. Some of the suppliers of polysilicon with whom we have entered into long-term contracts have limited operating experience in polysilicon production. As a result, they might have difficulty in manufacturing and supplying to us a sufficient amount of polysilicon to meet their obligations under these long-term supply contracts. Manufacturing polysilicon is a highly complex process and these suppliers may not be able to produce polysilicon of sufficient quantity and quality or on schedule to meet our wafer manufacturing requirements. Minor deviations in the manufacturing process can also cause substantial decreases in yield and, in some cases, cause production to be suspended or result in minimal output. If shipments of polysilicon from these suppliers experience major delays or our suppliers are unable to supply us with polysilicon as planned, we may suffer a setback to our raw material procurement, which could materially and adversely affect our growth strategy and our results of operations. Moreover, we may be involved in disputes to retrieve prepayments we made for the polysilicon delivery, which would expose us to risks of losing the prepayment or entering into settlements which may result in losses to us. In addition, the polysilicon supplied by suppliers may contain quality defects. For example, PV modules produced using polysilicon of substandard quality would result in lower cell efficiency and conversion rates than that which the supplier has claimed or provided a warranty for. From time to time, we may engage in negotiations and disputes with certain suppliers that supplied us with polysilicon with quality defects. Any litigation arising out of the disputes could subject us to potentially expensive legal expenses, distract management from the day-to-day operation of our business and expose us to risks for which appropriate damages may not be awarded to us, all of which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Prepayments to our polysilicon suppliers and equipment suppliers expose us to the credit risks of such suppliers and may increase our costs and expenses, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Under supply contracts with several of our multi-year polysilicon and our equipment suppliers, consistent with industry practice, we have made prepayments to our suppliers prior to the scheduled delivery dates for polysilicon and equipment. In many such cases, we made the prepayments without receiving collateral for such payments. As a result, our claims for such payments would rank as unsecured claims, which would expose us to the credit risks of our suppliers in the event of their insolvency or bankruptcy. Our claims against the defaulting suppliers would rank below those of secured creditors, which would undermine our chances of obtaining the return of our prepayments or interest free loans. In addition, if the market price of polysilicon decreases after we have prepaid our suppliers, we may not be able to adjust any historical payment insofar as it relates to a future delivery at a fixed price. Furthermore, if demand for our products decreases, we may incur costs associated with carrying excess materials. Accordingly, any of the above scenarios may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 8 Table of Contents A significant reduction or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives or change in government policies may have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Demand for our products depends substantially on government incentives aimed to promote greater use of solar power. In many countries in which we are currently, or intend to become, active, the solar power markets, particularly the market of on-grid PV systems, would not be commercially viable without government incentives. This is because the cost of generating electricity from solar power currently exceeds, and we believe will continue to exceed for the foreseeable future, the costs of generating electricity from conventional or non-solar renewable energy sources. The scope of the government incentives for solar power depends, to a large extent, on political and policy developments relating to environmental concerns in a given country, which could lead to a significant reduction in or a discontinuation of the support for renewable energies in such country. Federal, state and local governmental bodies in many of our key markets, most notably Germany, Italy, Spain, the United States, France, South Korea, Taiwan, India, Japan and China have provided subsidies and economic incentives in the form of rebates, tax credits and other incentives to end users, distributors, system integrators and manufacturers of solar power products to promote the use of solar energy in on-grid applications and to reduce dependency on other forms of energy. Policy shifts could reduce or eliminate these government economic incentives altogether. For example, the rapid rises of the German and Spanish markets were largely due to the government policies of those countries that set feed-in tariff terms at attractive rates. However, in September 2008, the Spanish government introduced a cap of 500 megawatts, or MW, for the feed-in tariff in 2009, which has resulted in limiting demand in the grid-connected market in Spain. In 2009, the German government reduced solar feed-in tariffs by 9%. In January 2010, Germany proposed a further mid-year reduction in solar feed-in tariffs of up to 17% for rooftop systems and an estimated 25% for ground-based systems, which may result in a significant fall in the price of and demand for PV products. In 2007, 2008 and 2009, Germany accounted for 31.4%, 23.9% and 33.9% of our net revenues, respectively. In 2007, 2008 and 2009, Spain accounted for 40.0%, 32.5% and 12.1% of our net revenues, respectively. We believe that in the time of uncertainty of political and policy developments, competition among solar manufacturers could become fierce. Electric utility companies that have significant political lobbying powers may also seek changes in the relevant legislation in their markets that may adversely affect the development and commercial acceptance of solar energy. A significant reduction in the scope or discontinuation of government incentive programs, especially those in our target markets, could cause demand for our products and our revenues to decline, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 9 Table of Contents Failure to procure sufficient reclaimable silicon raw materials at reasonable prices may decrease our gross margin and profitability. To reduce our reliance on polysilicon, we also produce silicon ingots and wafers by using a portion of reclaimable silicon raw materials, which include tops and tails of discarded portions of silicon ingots, pot scraps and broken silicon wafers acquired primarily from the semiconductor industry. Starting from 2008, we used a higher proportion of virgin polysilicon, as we were able to access a high quality and stable supply of polysilicon, which was widely available in the open market. In the fourth quarter of 2009, reclaimable silicon materials accounted for no more than 10% of our total silicon requirements, compared to approximately 15% in the fourth quarter of 2008. Although the prices of reclaimable silicon raw materials have also been decreasing in line with the recent decrease in the price of polysilicon, we cannot assure you that we will not revert to using a higher proportion of reclaimable silicon raw materials when the price of polysilicon increases in the future. If we fail to procure sufficient reclaimable silicon raw materials at commercially reasonable prices in the future, we may be unable to timely manufacture our products or our products may be available only at a higher cost, and we would be prevented from delivering our products to our customers in the required quantities and at prices that are profitable. This would have a materially negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Demand for our products may be adversely affected by the effect of the current economic and credit environment on our customers. The United States and international economies have experienced (and continue to experience) a period of slow economic growth. Near-term economic recovery remains uncertain. In particular, the credit and housing crises, terrorist acts and similar events, continued turmoil in the Middle East or war in general could contribute to a slowdown of the market demand for products that require significant initial capital expenditures, including demand for solar power products. For example, global economics, capital markets and credit disruptions have resulted in slower investments in new installation projects that make use of solar power products. Existing projects have also been delayed as a result of the credit crisis and other disruptions. If the economic recovery slows down as a result of the economic turmoil, or if there are further terrorist attacks in the United States or elsewhere, we may experience decreases in the demand for our solar power products, which may harm our operating results. Global economics, capital markets and credit disruptions also pose risks for our customers. We have benefited from historically low interest rates that have made it more attractive for our customers to use credit to purchase our products. Interest rates have fluctuated recently, which could increase the cost of financing these purchases and may reduce our customers’ profits and investors expected returns on investment. Given the current credit environment, particularly the tightening of the credit markets, there can be no assurance that our customers will be able to borrow money on a timely basis or on reasonable terms, which could have a negative impact on their demand for our products. If economic recovery is slow in the United States or elsewhere, we may experience decreases in the demand for our solar power products, which may harm our operating results. These factors may adversely impact our existing or future sales agreements, including increasing the likelihood of contract breaches. Our sales are affected by interest rate fluctuations and the availability of liquidity, and would be adversely affected by increases in interest rates or liquidity constraints. Rising interest rates may also make certain alternative investments more attractive to investors, and therefore lead to a decline in demand for our solar power products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial conditions and cash flows. 10 Table of Contents Because the markets in which we compete are highly competitive and many of our competitors have greater resources than us, we may not be able to compete successfully and we may lose or be unable to gain market share. The market for solar power products is competitive and fast evolving. We expect to face increased competition, which may result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share. We compete with other PV module manufacturing companies such as Sharp Electronic Corporation, Suntech Power Holdings Co., Ltd., Yingli Green Energy Holding Co., Ltd. and Mitsubishi Electric Corporation. Some of our competitors have also become vertically integrated, from polysilicon production, silicon ingot and wafer manufacturing to solar power system integration, such as Renewable Energy Corporation ASA, SolarWorld AG and Canadian Solar Inc. Some of our competitors may have a stronger market position than ours, more sophisticated technologies and products, and larger resources and better name recognition than we have. Further, many of our competitors are developing and are currently producing products based on new solar power technologies, such as thin-film technology, which may ultimately have costs similar to, or lower than, our projected costs. The barriers to entry are relatively low in the PV module manufacturing business, given that manufacturing PV modules is labor intensive and requires limited technology. Because of the scarcity of polysilicon in the past few years, supply chain management and financial strength were the key barriers to entry. As the shortage of polysilicon has eased since 2008, these barriers to entry become less significant and many new competitors may enter the industry and cause the industry to rapidly become over-saturated. Many mid-stream solar power products manufacturers have been seeking to move downstream to strengthen their position in regional markets. They are expected to leverage on their existing sales capacity as the industry faces challenges posed by the economic downturn. In addition, we may also face new competition from semiconductor manufacturers, several of which have already announced their intention to start production of solar cells. Decreases in polysilicon prices and increases in PV module production could result in substantial downward pressure on the price of PV modules and intensify the competition we face. Some of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, access to a larger customer base, stronger relationships with customers, access to greater resources, and significantly greater economies of scale, financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, research and development, technical and other resources than us. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to changing customer demands or market conditions or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sales of their products than we can. Our business relies on sales of our PV modules, and our competitors with more diversified product offerings may be better positioned to withstand a decline in the demand for PV modules. New competitors or alliances among existing competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire a significant market share, which would harm our business. If we fail to compete successfully, our business would suffer and we may lose or be unable to gain market share. 11 Table of Contents Our dependence on a limited number of customers may cause significant fluctuations or declines in our revenues. We currently sell a significant portion of our PV modules to a limited number of customers. In 2007, 2008 and 2009, sales to our top five customers accounted for approximately 33.5%, 41.9% and 36.9%, respectively, of our total net revenues. The top customer contributed approximately 9.5% of our net revenues in 2009. Sales to our customers are typically made through non-exclusive, short-term arrangements. We anticipate that our dependence on a limited number of customers will continue for the foreseeable future. Consequently, any one of the following events may cause material fluctuations or declines in our revenues: • reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more of our significant customers; • selection by one or more of our significant customers of products competitive with ours; • loss of one or more of our significant customers due to disputes, dissatisfaction with our products or otherwise and our failure to attract additional or replacement customers; and • failure of any of our significant customers to make timely payment for our products. We are exposed to the credit risk of these customers, some of which are new customers with whom we have not historically had extensive business dealings. The failure of any of these significant customers to meet their payment obligations would materially and adversely affect our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. The practice of requiring customers to make advance payments when they place orders with us has declined, and we have experienced and will continue to experience increased needs to finance our working capital requirements and are exposed to increased credit risk. We have historically required our customers to make an advance payment of a certain percentage of their orders, a business practice that helped us to manage our accounts receivable, prepay our suppliers and reduce the amount of funds that we needed to finance our working capital requirements. In line with market trends, this practice of requiring our customers to make advance payments is on the decline, which in turn has increased our need to obtain additional short-term borrowings to fund our working capital requirements. In 2010, we believe a majority of our revenues are expected to be derived from credit sales, generally with payment schedules due according to negotiated contracts. In addition, some of our customers pay us through drawn upon acceptance, open account and letter of credit terms, which typically take 90 to 120 days to process in order for us to be paid. Despite the more lenient payment terms, any of our customers may fail to meet their payment obligations, especially due to the global economic crisis and the resulting decrease in the availability of financing, which would materially and adversely affect our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents We have significant outstanding bank borrowings and capital expenditure needs, and we may not be able to arrange adequate financing when our outstanding borrowings mature or when capital expenditures are required. We typically require a significant amount of cash to fund our operations, especially prepayments or loans to suppliers to secure our polysilicon supply requirements. We also require a significant amount of cash to meet future capital requirements, including the expansion of our PV cell and module manufacturing facilities, as well as research and development activities in order to remain competitive. Future acquisitions, expansions, market changes or other developments may cause us to require additional funds. As of December 31, 2009, we had $406.1 million in cash and cash equivalents, $72.0 million in restricted cash and $450.0 million in outstanding borrowings, of which approximately $267.4 million was due within one year. We might not be able to obtain extensions of these borrowings in the future as they mature. In the event that we are unable to obtain extensions of these borrowings, or if we are unable to obtain sufficient alternative funding at reasonable terms to make repayments, we will have to repay these borrowings with cash generated by our operating activities. In addition, we estimate that our capital expenditures will be approximately $200.0 million in 2010 for capacity expansion. Our business might not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to repay these borrowings, some of which are secured by significant amounts of our assets, and at the same time fund our capital expenditures. In addition, repaying these borrowings and capital expenditures with cash generated by our operating activities will divert our financial resources from the requirements of our ongoing operations and future growth, and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and future prospects. If we are unable to obtain funding in a timely manner or on commercially acceptable terms, or at all, our growth prospects and future profitability may decrease materially. Moreover, future turmoil in the credit markets and the potential impact on the liquidity of financial institutions may have an adverse effect on our ability to fund our business through borrowings, under either existing or newly created instruments in the public or private markets on terms that we believe to be reasonable, if at all. Failure to secure any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy, financial performance and market price of ADSs and could require us to delay or abandon critical development plans. We may not be successful in manufacturing solar cells cost-effectively. We began manufacturing solar cells in May 2007, and prior to that we did not have any significant operating experience in solar cell manufacturing. Manufacturing solar cells is a complex process. Minor deviations in the manufacturing process can cause substantial decreases in yields and cell conversion efficiency and, in some cases, cause production to be suspended or yield no output. We have invested significantly in research and development in solar cell technology in order to achieve the high conversion efficiency rates required for our solar cells and modules to remain competitive. If we face technological difficulties in our production of solar cells, we may be unable to expand our business as planned. Currently, we have an annual manufacturing capacity of ingots and wafers of approximately 500 MW and cells and modules of approximately 600 MW. We plan to increase our annual manufacturing capacity of ingots and wafers to approximately 700 MW and cells and modules to between approximately 850 MW and 950 MW by the end of 2010. We will determine the magnitude of increases taking into account market visibility in both customer demand and the commercial lending environment to finance PV system installations in our respective sales markets, as well as our strategy to expand prudently while preserving liquidity. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will not revise our capacity expansion plan after we finalize our review. If we fail to implement our plan as expected, experience a delay in the ramp up or fail to achieve our targeted yields, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents We may experience difficulty in achieving acceptable yields and product performance as a result of manufacturing problems. The technology for the manufacturing of silicon ingots and wafers is complex, requires costly equipment and is continuously being modified in an effort to improve yields and product performance. Microscopic impurities such as dust and other contaminants, difficulties in the manufacturing process, disruptions in the supply of utilities or defects in the key materials and tools used to manufacture wafers can cause a percentage of the wafers to be rejected, which in each case negatively affects our yields. We have, from time to time, experienced production difficulties that have caused manufacturing delays and lower than expected yields. Because our manufacturing capabilities are concentrated in our manufacturing facilities in Changzhou, China, any problem in our facilities may limit our ability to manufacture products. We may encounter problems in our manufacturing facilities as a result of, among other things, production failures, construction delays, human errors, equipment malfunction or process contamination, which could seriously harm our operations. We may also experience fires, floods, droughts, power losses and similar events beyond our control that would affect our facilities. For example, shortages or suspensions of power supplied to us have occasionally occurred due to severe thunderstorms in the area, and have disrupted our operations and caused severe damages to wafers in the process. We experienced an accidental fire in our wafer facilities in March 2010 caused by a hot spot in an electrical installation resulted in damages to our cleaning equipment and temporary disruption to a segment of our production line. A disruption to any step of our manufacturing process will require us to repeat each step and recycle the silicon debris, thus adversely affecting our yields. Operating hazards and natural disasters may cause interruption to our operations, property and/or environmental damage as well as personal injuries, and each of these incidents could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Although we carry business interruption insurance, losses incurred or payments required to be made by us due to operating hazards or natural disasters that are not fully insured may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Problems with product quality or product performance could damage our reputation, or result in a decrease in customers and revenues, unexpected expenses or loss of market share, and may cause us to incur significant warranty expenses Our products may contain defects that are not detected until after they are shipped or are installed because we cannot test for all possible scenarios. Unlike PV modules, which are subject to certain uniform international standards, solar cells generally are not subject to uniform international standards, and it is often difficult to determine whether solar power product defects are a result of defective solar cells, other defective components of PV modules or other reasons. Furthermore, the solar wafers and other components that we purchase from third-party suppliers are typically sold to us with no or only limited warranties. We have received in the past, and may receive from time to time in the future, complaints from certain customers that portions of our PV modules have quality deficiencies. For example, in certain instances in the past, customers raised concerns about the stated versus actual performance output of some of our PV modules. We determined that these concerns resulted from differences in calibration standards we used. However, the corrective actions and procedures that we took may turn out to be inadequate to prevent further similar incidents or to protect against future errors or defects. If we deliver PV module products that do not satisfy our customers’ or end users’ quality requirements, or if there is a perception that our products are of poor quality, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our PV module products could be harmed. We may also incur substantial expense to replace low quality products. 14 Table of Contents In the past, our PV modules were typically sold with a two-year warranty for defects in materials and workmanship and a minimum power output warranty of up to 25 years following the date of purchase or installation. In 2009, we extended the warranty for defects in materials and workmanship from two years to five years. We believe our warranty periods are consistent with industry practice. We have only begun to sell PV modules since November 2004. Although we conduct accelerated reliability testing of our PV modules, our PV modules have not been and cannot be tested in an environment simulating the 25-year warranty period. As a result, we may be subject to unexpected warranty expense and associated harm to our financial results for as long as 25 years after the sale of our products. Any increase in the defect rate of our products would cause us to increase the amount of our warranty reserves and have a correspondingly negative impact on our operating results. Furthermore, widespread product failures may damage our market reputation, reduce our market share and cause our sales to decline. We may not be successful in the commercial production of new products, which could adversely affect our business and prospects. We may develop and produce new products from time to time, such as our new PV module product, colored modules for architectural applications and larger sized modules for utility grid applications. We may be unable to generate sufficient customer demand for our new products if we are unable to develop and produce new products in a cost-effective manner with the expected performance. If we fail to generate demand for our new products, our business and prospects may be adversely affected and we may be unable to recoup our investment in the development and production of such products. Our future success depends in part on our ability to expand our business into downstream markets. Any failure to successfully implement this strategy could have a material adverse effect on our growth, business prospects and results of operations in future periods. Our current business strategy includes plans to expand into select downstream markets, such as systems integration and project development, which we believe are natural extensions of our vertically integrated business model. These expansion plans may include investments in downstream companies and joint ventures and formation of strategic alliances with third parties. However, these plans may require significant capital expenditures, which could be used in pursuit of other opportunities and investments. Additionally, our experience in the solar power products manufacturing industry may not be as relevant or applicable in downstream markets. We may also face intense competition from companies with greater experience or established presence in the targeted downstream markets or competition from our industry peers with similar expansion plans. Furthermore, we may not be able to manage or control entities which we invest in or provide adequate resources to such entities to maximize the return on our investments. In the case of joint ventures and strategic alliances with third parties, we may face risks associated with the sharing of proprietary information, loss of control of operations that are material to our business and profit sharing arrangements. We may also consider acquisitions of existing downstream players, in which we may face difficulties related to the integration of the operations and personnel of acquired businesses and the division of resources between our existing and acquired downstream operations. 15 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that we will be successful in expanding our business into downstream markets along the solar power product value chain. Any failure to successfully identify, execute and integrate our acquisitions, investments, joint ventures and alliances as part of entering into downstream markets may have a material adverse impact on our growth, business prospects and results of operations, which could lead to a decline in the price of our ADSs. Existing regulations and policies and changes to these regulations and policies may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the purchase and use of solar power products, which may significantly reduce demand for our products. The market for electricity generation products is heavily influenced by government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry, as well as policies adopted by electric utilities. These regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing and technical interconnection of customer-owned electricity generation. In a number of countries, these regulations and policies are being modified and may continue to be modified. Customer purchases of, or further investment in the research and development of, alternative energy sources, including solar power technology, could be deterred by these regulations and policies, which could result in a significant reduction in the demand for our products. For example, without a regulatory mandated exception for solar power systems, utility customers are often charged interconnection or standby fees for putting distributed power generation on the electric utility grid. These fees could increase the cost to our customers of using our solar power products and make them less desirable, thereby harming our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We anticipate that our products and their installation will be subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with national and local regulations relating to building codes, safety, environmental protection, utility interconnection and metering and related matters. It is difficult to track the requirements of individual jurisdictions and design products to comply with the varying standards. Any new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to our solar power products may result in significant additional expenses to us and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction in demand for our solar power products. If solar power technology is not adopted widely, or sufficient demand for solar power products does not develop or takes longer to develop than we anticipate, our revenues may not continue to increase or may even decline, and we may be unable to sustain our profitability. The solar power market is at a relatively early stage of development, and the extent of acceptance of solar power products is uncertain. Market data on the solar power industry are not as readily available as those for other more established industries where trends can be assessed more reliably from data gathered over a longer period of time. In addition, demand for solar power products in our targeted markets, including Germany, Italy, Spain, the Benelux markets, the Czech Republic, the United States, France, China, Japan and South Korea, may not develop or may develop to a lesser extent than we anticipate. Many factors may affect the viability of widespread adoption of solar power technology and demand for solar power products, including: • cost-effectiveness, performance and reliability of solar power products compared to conventional and other renewable energy sources and products; • availability of government subsidies and incentives to support the development of the solar power industry; 16 Table of Contents • success of other alternative energy generation technologies, such as wind power, hydroelectric power and biomass; • fluctuations in economic and market conditions that affect the viability of conventional and other renewable energy sources, such as increases or decreases in the prices of oil and other fossil fuels; • capital expenditures by end users of solar power products, which tend to decrease when the economy slows down; and • deregulation of the electric power industry and broader energy industry. If solar power technology is not adopted widely or sufficient demand for solar power products does not develop or takes longer to develop than we anticipate, our revenues may suffer and we may be unable to sustain our profitability. Further technological changes in the solar power industry could render our products uncompetitive or obsolete, which could reduce our market share and cause our sales and profit to decline. The solar power market is characterized by evolving technologies and standards that result in improved features, such as more efficient and higher power output, improved aesthetics and smaller size. This requires us to develop new solar power products and enhance existing products to keep pace with evolving technologies and changing customer requirements. A variety of competing solar technologies that other companies may develop could prove to be more cost-effective and have better performance than our technologies. For example, thin-film technologies are competing technologies in the solar power industry. According to Solarbuzz, in 2009, thin-film technologies represented 18.0% of the solar market, compared to 82.0% for crystalline technology. Thin-film technologies allow for lower production costs for solar cells by using lower amounts of semiconductor materials. Thin-film solar cells generally have a lower conversion efficiency rate than crystalline solar cells. Further development in competing solar power technologies may result in lower manufacturing costs or higher product performance than those expected from our PV modules. We will need to invest significant financial resources in research and development to maintain our market position, keep pace with technological advances in the solar power industry and effectively compete in the future. Our failure to further refine our technology, enhance our existing solar power products, or develop and introduce new products, could cause our products to become uncompetitive or obsolete, which could reduce our market share and cause our revenues to decline. Non-compliance with present or future construction and environmental regulations may result in potentially significant monetary damages and fines. In the past, we had begun constructing and operating facilities without having obtained all of the necessary construction and environmental permits. Although we have subsequently obtained all of the construction and environmental permits for these facilities, we could be subject to fines or penalties for our past non-compliance. 17 Table of Contents Because our manufacturing processes generate noise, waste water, gaseous wastes and other industrial wastes, we are required to comply with national and local environmental regulations. If we fail to comply with present or future environmental regulations, we may be required to pay substantial fines, suspend production or cease operations. Any failure by us to control the use or to adequately restrict the discharge of hazardous substances could subject us to potentially significant monetary damages and fines or suspensions in our business operations, which would have a materially adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In particular, the manufacturing processes for producing polysilicon employ processes that generate toxic waste products, including the highly volatile and highly toxic substance silicon-tetrachloride. We purchase our polysilicon from our suppliers in the United States, Europe and China. If any of our suppliers fails to comply with environmental regulations for the production of polysilicon and the discharge of the highly toxic waste products, we may face negative publicity which may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Furthermore, if any of our suppliers are forced to suspend or shut down production due to violations of environmental regulations, we may not be able to secure enough polysilicon for our production needs on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Our future success substantially depends on our ability to significantly expand both our manufacturing capacity and output, which exposes us to a number of risks and uncertainties. Our future success depends on our ability to significantly increase both our manufacturing capacity and output. If we are unable to do so, we may be unable to expand our business, decrease our costs per watt, maintain our competitive position and improve our profitability. Our ability to establish additional manufacturing capacity and increase output is subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including: • the need to raise significant additional funds to purchase raw materials or to build additional manufacturing facilities, which we may be unable to obtain on commercially viable terms or at all; • delays and cost overruns as a result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, such as increases in the price of polysilicon and problems with equipment vendors, particularly with respect to major equipment such as ingot pulling or growing machines; • delays or denial of required approvals by relevant government authorities; • diversion of significant management attention and other resources; and • failure to execute our expansion plan effectively. If we are unable to establish or successfully operate additional manufacturing capacity, or if we encounter any of the risks described above, we may be unable to expand our business as planned. Moreover, even if we do expand our manufacturing capacity we might not be able to generate sufficient customer demand for our solar power products to support our increased production levels. 18 Table of Contents In particular, we believe that the expansion of our manufacturing capacity is an integral part of our long-term strategy to achieve a grid parity cost structure. Our ability to meet our estimate for the scale of production needed to achieve grid parity is affected by a number of factors, including our ability to improve and maintain the degree of vertical integration and to increase our efficiencies and margins, the likelihood that we may approach or reach a point of diminishing returns as we continue to expand our scale, the average purchase price we will pay for silicon in the future to meet our expansion requirements, and the cost of conventional grid electricity which will determine at which point grid parity can be reached. We might not be able to meet our desired scale of production in order to fully implement our strategy. Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our executive officers, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success depends substantially on the continued services of our executive officers, especially Mr. Jifan Gao, our chairman and chief executive officer. If one or more of our executive officers or key employees were unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we might not be able to replace them easily or at all. Our business may be severely disrupted, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected, and we may incur additional expenses to recruit, train and retain personnel. Since our industry is characterized by high demand and intense competition for talent, we also may not be able to attract or retain additional highly skilled employees or other key personnel that we will need to achieve our strategic objectives. As we are still a relatively young company and our business has grown rapidly, our ability to train and integrate new employees into our operations may not meet the growing demands of our business. If any of our executive officers or key employees joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose customers, suppliers, know-how and key professionals and staff members. Each of our executive officers has entered into an employment agreement with us, which contains non-competition provisions. If any dispute arises between our executive officers and us, these agreements may not be enforceable in China in light of the uncertainties with China’s legal system, or in another country where they obtain employment. See “—Risks Related to Doing Business in China—Uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system could have a material adverse effect on us.” If we are unable to attract, train and retain qualified technical personnel, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, train and retain qualified technical personnel, particularly those with expertise in the solar power industry. There is substantial competition for qualified technical personnel, and we might not be able to attract or retain our qualified technical personnel. If we are unable to do so, our business may be materially and adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our business may be adversely affected. We have experienced a period of rapid growth and expansion that has placed, and continues to place, significant strain on our management personnel, systems and resources. To accommodate our growth, we anticipate that we will need to implement a variety of new and upgraded operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, including the improvement of our accounting and other internal management systems, all of which require substantial management efforts. We also will need to continue to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce, manage our customer relationships and manage our relationship with foundries and assembly and testing houses. All of these endeavors will require substantial management effort and skill and incurrence of additional expenditures. We might not be able to manage our growth effectively, and any failure to do so may have a material adverse effect on our business. We face risks associated with the marketing, distribution and sale of our solar power products internationally, and if we are unable to effectively manage these risks, they could impair our ability to expand our business abroad. In 2007, 2008 and 2009, we sold approximately 97.9%, 96.3% and 97.1%, respectively, of our products to customers outside of China. The marketing, distribution and sale of our solar power products in the international markets expose us to a number of risks, including: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • difficulty in engaging and retaining distributors who are knowledgeable about, and can function effectively in, overseas markets; • increased costs associated with maintaining marketing efforts in various countries; • difficulty and costs relating to compliance with the different commercial and legal requirements of the overseas markets in which we offer our products; • trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and other restrictions and expenses, which could increase the prices of our products and make us less competitive in some countries; and • demand for solar power products in overseas markets as influenced by the global economic downturn and its effects. In addition, we export a substantial amount of our products to Europe. There have been market rumors that the European Union may seek to initiate anti-dumping investigations regarding imports of solar power products from China. If an anti-dumping investigation is initiated against Chinese exporters or if the European Union imposes anti-dumping measures, including tariffs on solar power product imports from China, such action could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents We may be exposed to infringement or misappropriation claims by third parties, which, if determined adversely to us, could cause us to pay significant damage awards. Our success depends largely on our ability to use and develop our technology and know-how without infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. The validity and scope of claims relating to solar power technology patents involve complex scientific, legal and factual questions and analysis and, therefore, may be highly uncertain. We may be subject to litigation involving claims of patent infringement or violation of intellectual property rights of third parties. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, patent opposition proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in any such litigation or proceedings to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liability to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties, to pay ongoing royalties, or to redesign our products or subject us to injunctions prohibiting the manufacturing and sale of our products or the use of our technologies. Protracted litigations could also result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our products until resolution of such litigation. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights may undermine our competitive position, and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights or defend against third-party allegations of infringement may be costly. We rely primarily on patent, trademark, trade secret, copyright law and other contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property. Nevertheless, these afford only limited protection and the actions we take to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our proprietary technologies or other intellectual property rights, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology can be difficult and expensive. Also, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. We cannot assure you that the outcome of such potential litigation will be in our favor. An adverse determination in any such litigation will impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects and reputation. Implementation of PRC intellectual property-related laws has historically been lacking, primarily because of ambiguities in the PRC laws and difficulties in enforcement. Accordingly, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. We have limited insurance coverage and may incur losses resulting from product liability claims. As with other solar power product manufacturers, we are exposed to risks associated with product liability claims if the use of our solar power products results in injury. Since our products generate electricity, it is possible that users could be injured or killed by our products as a result of product malfunctions, defects, improper installation or other causes. We only began commercial shipment of our PV modules in November 2004 and, because of our limited operating history, we cannot predict whether product liability claims will be brought against us in the future or the effect of any resulting negative publicity on our business. Moreover, we do not have any product liability insurance and may not have adequate resources to satisfy a judgment in the event of a successful claim against us. The successful assertion of product liability claims against us could result in potentially significant monetary damages and require us to make significant payments. 21 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may lose investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must render an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. Our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of December 31, 2009. See “Item 15. Control and Procedures.” If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, it could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. For example, in 2007, we identified a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting relating to our failure to effectively identify and evaluate embedded derivative instruments in long-term supply contracts. We subsequently addressed this material weakness by establishing a policy and a set of procedures and by providing training to our staff to identify such derivative instruments. We have incurred and anticipate that we will continue to incur considerable costs, management time and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Trina or Trina China may be required by the PRC tax authorities to withhold capital gains tax arising out of our restructuring in May 2006. In connection with our restructuring in May 2006, certain former shareholders of Trina China transferred their equity interests in Trina China to Trina for a nominal consideration. As a result of the nominal consideration paid in these related party transactions, such consideration may be subject to pricing reassessment by the PRC tax authorities, leading to a recognition of capital gains by the transferring shareholders which would be subject to PRC tax. PRC tax law provides a safe harbor exemption from such capital gains tax in the case of an intra-group restructuring. While our restructuring does not fall squarely within the requirements for the safe harbor, we believe that the PRC tax authorities may deem the restructuring to meet substantially all of the requirements for the safe harbor for tax-free treatment. The PRC tax authorities could, however, deem these transferring shareholders to have realized capital gains as a result of the restructuring. Under PRC tax law, where both parties to an equity transfer transaction are non-resident enterprises and where the transfer occurs outside the Chinese territory, the non-resident enterprise receiving income must pay taxes to the taxation authority in the locality of the domestic enterprise whose equity was transferred, either directly or through an agent. The domestic enterprise whose equity was transferred must assist the taxation authority in collecting the relevant PRC taxes from the non-resident enterprise. As Trina and all of these transferring shareholders are deemed to be foreign persons without a presence in China, Trina China may be required to withhold tax on capital gains deemed to have been received by these former shareholders. These former shareholders have agreed to indemnify us against any withholding obligations or liabilities due to or imposed by the PRC tax authorities that may arise out of the restructuring. The PRC tax authorities could impose such withholding obligation on Trina or Trina China or impose fines or penalties on Trina or Trina China for its failure to make such withholding. If such withholding obligation is imposed and we are not indemnified by these transferring shareholders, our potential tax exposure would be approximately $2.8 million, excluding any fines or penalties. The amount of such fines or penalties is difficult to estimate as the determination of whether any such fines or penalties would be imposed and the amount of such fines or penalties are at the discretion of the PRC tax authorities. 22 Table of Contents Our principal shareholders have substantial influence over our company and their interests may not be aligned with the interests of our other shareholders. Our principal shareholders have substantial influence over our business, including decisions regarding mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our ADSs. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. Furthermore, our articles of association contain a quorum requirement of at least one-third of our total outstanding shares present in person or by proxy. Two or more shareholders with an aggregate shareholding of more than one-third could constitute a quorum and approve actions which may not be in the best interests of our other shareholders. Fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our business. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar, Euro and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions and China’s foreign exchange policies. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi was permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy caused the Renminbi to appreciate approximately 21.5% against the U.S. dollar over the following three years. Since reaching a high against the U.S. dollar in July 2008, however, the Renminbi has traded within a narrow band against the U.S. dollar, remaining within 1% of its August 2008 high but never exceeding it. As a consequence, the Renminbi has fluctuated sharply since July 2008 against other freely traded currencies, in tandem with the U.S. dollar. It is difficult to predict how long the current situation may last and when and how it may change again. Most of our sales are denominated in Euros, with the remainder in U.S. dollars, while a substantial portion of our costs and expenses is denominated in Renminbi, with the remainder in U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in exchange rates, particularly among the U.S. dollar, Renminbi and Euro, may affect our net profit margins and could result in fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and operating gains and losses. We had a foreign exchange gain of approximately $10.0 million in 2009. We cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations and may incur net foreign currency losses in the future. In addition, as we rely entirely on dividends paid to us by our operating subsidiaries in China, any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ordinary shares. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the Renminbi amount we receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. As a large proportion of our revenues are paid to us in Euros, fluctuation between the Euro and the RMB may also have a material effect on our results of operations. 23 Table of Contents Starting from October 2008, we have entered into a series of foreign currency forward contracts with several commercial banks to hedge our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. As of December 31, 2009, we had foreign currency forward contracts with a total contract value of approximately €137.0 million ($196.6 million). We do not use foreign currency forward contracts to hedge all of our foreign currency denominated commitments. As with all hedging instruments, there are risks associated with the use of foreign currency forward contracts. While the use of such foreign currency forward contracts provides us with protection from certain fluctuations in foreign currency exchange, we potentially forgo the benefits that might result from favorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange. Any default by the counterparties to these transactions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, these financial hedging transactions may not provide adequate protection against future foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and, consequently, such fluctuations could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may become a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, which could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. investors. A non-U.S. corporation will be considered a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for any taxable year if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the total value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during a taxable year) is attributable to assets, including cash, that produce or are held for the production of passive income, or passive assets. For this purpose, the total value of our assets generally will be determined by reference to the market price of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Based on the market prices of our ordinary shares and ADSs and the composition of our income and assets, we do not believe we were a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes for the year ended December 31, 2009. However, we generally will not be able to make a determination of our PFIC status for any specific taxable year until the close of that taxable year and we must make a separate determination each taxable year as to whether we are a PFIC. In addition, a decrease in the market value of our ordinary shares and ADSs and/or an increase in cash or other passive assets would increase the relative percentage of our passive assets. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for the current or any future taxable year. If we are a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. Holder (as defined under “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Taxation”) holds any ADSs or ordinary shares, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could apply to the U.S. Holder. Please see “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation — U.S. Federal Income Taxation — Passive Foreign Investment Company” for information about PFIC status and certain elections that may be available to mitigate such adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences if we ever become a PFIC. U.S. Holders are urged to consult their own tax advisors regarding the potential application of the PFIC rules to their ownership of ADSs or ordinary shares and the availability and advisability of any elections. 24 Table of Contents Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. All of our business operations are conducted in China and some of our sales are made in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: • the amount of government involvement; • the level of development; • the growth rate; • the control of foreign exchange; and • the allocation of resources. While the Chinese economy has grown significantly in the past 30 years, the growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. The Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the PRC government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the PRC government could materially and adversely affect our business. The PRC government also exercises significant control over Chinese economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Efforts by the PRC government to control the pace of growth of the Chinese economy could result in decreased capital expenditure by solar energy users, which in turn could reduce demand for our products. Uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system could have a material adverse effect on us. We conduct substantially all of our manufacturing operations through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Trina China, a limited liability company established in China. Trina China is generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involves uncertainties. We cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, the preemption of local regulations by national laws, or the overturn of local government decisions by the superior government. These uncertainties may limit legal protections available to us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. 25 Table of Contents Our ability to make distributions and other payments to our shareholders depends to a significant extent upon the distribution of earnings and other payments made by Trina China. We conduct substantially all of our operations through Trina China. Our ability to make distributions or other payments to our shareholders depends on payments from Trina China, whose ability to make such payments is subject to PRC regulations. Regulations in the PRC currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in China. According to the relevant PRC laws and regulations applicable to Trina China and its articles of association, Trina China is required to set aside at least 10% of its after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year to its general reserves until the accumulative amount of these reserves reaches 50% of its registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. As of December 31, 2009, these general reserves amounted to $25.3 million, accounting for 6.57% of the registered capital of Trina China. In addition, under the new EIT Law that became effective in January 2008, dividends from Trina China to us are subject to a 10% withholding tax. See “—Our business benefits from certain PRC government tax incentives, and the expiration of, or changes to, these incentives could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations” and “