RISK FACTORS Because our partnership interest in OPCO currently represents our only cash-generating asset, our cash flow depends completely on OPCO’s ability to make distributions to its partners, including us. Our cash flow initially depends completely on OPCO’s distributions to us as one of its partners. The amount of cash OPCO can distribute to its partners principally depends upon the amount of cash it generates from its operations, which may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: · the rates it obtains from its charters and contracts of affreightment (whereby OPCO carries an agreed quantity of cargo for a customer over a specified trade route within a given period of time); · the price and level of production of, and demand for, crude oil, particularly the level of production at the offshore oil fields OPCO services under contracts of affreightment; · the level of its operating costs, such as the cost of crews and insurance; · the number of off-hire days for its fleet and the timing of, and number of days required for, drydocking of its vessels; · the rates, if any, at which OPCO may be able to redeploy shuttle tankers in the spot market as conventional oil tankers during any periods of reduced or terminated oil production at fields serviced by contracts of affreightment; · delays in the delivery of any newbuildings or vessels undergoing conversion and the beginning of payments under charters relating to those vessels; · prevailing global and regional economic and political conditions; · currency exchange rate fluctuations; and · the effect of governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards on the conduct of its business. The actual amount of cash OPCO will have available for distribution also will depend on other factors such as: · the level of capital expenditures it makes, including for maintaining vessels or converting existing vessels for other uses and complying with regulations; · its debt service requirements and restrictions on distributions contained in its debt instruments; · fluctuations in its working capital needs; · its ability to make working capital borrowings; and · the amount of any cash reserves, including reserves for future maintenance capital expenditures, working capital and other matters, established by the Board of Directors of our general partner. OPCO’s limited partnership agreement provides that it will distribute its available cash to its partners on a quarterly basis. OPCO’s available cash includes cash on hand less any reserves that may be appropriate for operating its business. The amount of OPCO’s quarterly distributions, including the amount of cash reserves not distributed, will be determined by the Board of Directors of our general partner on our behalf. The amount of cash OPCO generates from operations may differ materially from its profit or loss for the period, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result of this and the other factors mentioned above, OPCO may make cash distributions during periods when it records losses and may not make cash distributions during periods when it records net income. We may not have sufficient cash from operations to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution on our common units or to increase distributions. The source of our earnings and cash flow initially will consist exclusively of cash distributions from OPCO. Therefore, the amount of distributions we are able to make to our unitholders will fluctuate, initially, based on the level of distributions made by OPCO to its partners, including us, and, in the future, based on the level of distributions made by OPCO and any subsidiaries through which we later conduct operations. Neither OPCO nor any such operating subsidiaries may make quarterly distributions at a level that will permit us to make distributions to our common unitholders at the minimum quarterly distribution level or to increase our quarterly distributions in the future. In addition, while we would expect to increase or decrease distributions to our unitholders if OPCO increases or decreases distributions to us, the timing and amount of any such increased or decreased distributions will not necessarily be comparable to the timing and amount of the increase or decrease in distributions made by OPCO to us. Our ability to distribute to our unitholders any cash we may receive from OPCO or any future operating subsidiaries is or may be limited by a number of factors, including, among others: · interest expense and principal payments on any indebtedness we incur; · restrictions on distributions contained in any of our current or future debt agreements; · fees and expenses of us, our general partner, its affiliates or third parties we are required to reimburse or pay, including expenses we incur as a result of being a public company; and 9 · reserves our general partner believes are prudent for us to maintain for the proper conduct of our business or to provide for future distributions. Many of these factors will reduce the amount of cash we may otherwise have available for distribution. We may not be able to pay distributions, and any distributions we do make may not be at or above our minimum quarterly distribution. The actual amount of cash that is available for distribution to our unitholders will depend on several factors, many of which are beyond the control of us or our general partner. Our ability to grow may be adversely affected by our cash distribution policy. OPCO’s ability to meet its financial needs and grow may be adversely affected by its cash distribution policy. Our cash distribution policy, which is consistent with our partnership agreement, requires us to distribute all of our available cash each quarter. Accordingly, our growth may not be as fast as businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. OPCO’s cash distribution policy requires it to distribute all of its available cash each quarter. In determining the amount of cash available for distribution by OPCO, the Board of Directors of our general partner, in making the determination on our behalf, will approve the amount of cash reserves to set aside, including reserves for future maintenance capital expenditures, working capital and other matters. OPCO also relies upon external financing sources, including commercial borrowings, to fund its capital expenditures. Accordingly, to the extent OPCO does not have sufficient cash reserves or is unable to obtain financing, its cash distribution policy may significantly impair its ability to meet its financial needs or to grow. OPCO must make substantial capital expenditures to maintain the operating capacity of its fleet, which will reduce cash available for distribution. In addition, each quarter our general partner is required to deduct estimated maintenance capital expenditures from operating surplus, which may result in less cash available to unitholders than if actual maintenance capital expenditures were deducted. OPCO must make substantial capital expenditures to maintain, over the long term, the operating capacity of its fleet. We intend to expand our fleet through wholly owned subsidiaries, which would increase the level of our maintenance capital expenditures. Maintenance capital expenditures include capital expenditures associated with drydocking a vessel, modifying an existing vessel or acquiring a new vessel to the extent these expenditures are incurred to maintain the operating capacity of our fleet. These expenditures could increase as a result of changes in: · the cost of labor and materials; · customer requirements; · increases in fleet size or the cost of replacement vessels; · governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards relating to safety, security or the environment; and · competitive standards. In addition, actual maintenance capital expenditures will vary significantly from quarter to quarter based on the number of vessels drydocked during that quarter. Significant maintenance capital expenditures will reduce the amount of cash OPCO has available to distribute to us and that we have available for distribution to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement requires our general partner to deduct our estimated, rather than actual, maintenance capital expenditures from operating surplus each quarter in an effort to reduce fluctuations in operating surplus. The amount of estimated maintenance capital expenditures deducted from operating surplus is subject to review and change by the conflicts committee of our general partner at least once a year. In years when estimated maintenance capital expenditures are higher than actual maintenance capital expenditures, the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders will be lower than if actual maintenance capital expenditures were deducted from operating surplus. If our general partner underestimates the appropriate level of estimated maintenance capital expenditures, we may have less cash available for distribution in future periods when actual capital expenditures begin to exceed our previous estimates. We will be required to make substantial capital expenditures to expand the size of our fleet. We generally will be required to make significant installment payments for acquisitions of newbuilding vessels or for the conversion of existing vessels prior to their delivery and generation of revenue. Depending on whether we finance our expenditures through cash from operations or by issuing debt or equity securities, our ability to make cash distributions may be diminished or our financial leverage could increase or our unitholders could be diluted. We intend to make substantial capital expenditures to increase the size of our fleet. The total delivered cost for a shuttle tanker is approximately $60 to $150 million, an FSO unit is approximately $20 to $50 million and a floating production, storage and offloading (or FPSO) unit is approximately $100 million to $1.0 billion, although actual costs will vary significantly depending on the market price charged by shipyards, the size and specifications of the vessel, governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards. We and Teekay Shipping Corporation regularly evaluate and pursue opportunities to provide marine transportation services for new or expanding offshore projects. Teekay Shipping Corporation currently is seeking to provide transportation services for several offshore projects. Under an omnibus agreement that we have entered into, Teekay Shipping Corporation is required to offer to us, within 365 days of their deliveries, certain shuttle tankers, FSO units and FPSO units Teekay Shipping Corporation may acquire, including two shuttle tankers and one FSO unit currently being converted from conventional oil tankers or being upgraded by Teekay Shipping Corporation. Neither we nor Teekay Shipping Corporation may be awarded charters or contracts of affreightment relating to any of the projects we pursue or it pursues, and we may choose not to purchase the vessels Teekay Shipping Corporation is required to offer to us under the omnibus agreement. If we obtain from Teekay Shipping Corporation any offshore project, we will need to incur significant capital expenditures to build the offshore vessels needed to fulfill the project requirements. If we choose to purchase the shuttle tankers and FSO or FPSO units Teekay Shipping Corporation is required to offer to us, we plan to finance the cost either through internally generated funds, debt or equity financings or the issuance to it of equity securities. 10 We generally are required to make installment payments on newbuildings prior to their delivery. We typically must pay between 10% to 20% of the purchase price of a shuttle tanker upon signing the purchase contract, even though delivery of the completed vessel will not occur until much later (approximately three to four years from the order). If we finance these acquisition costs by issuing debt or equity securities, we will increase the aggregate amount of interest or minimum quarterly distributions we must make prior to generating cash from the operation of the newbuilding. To fund the remaining portion of these and other capital expenditures, we will be required to use cash from operations or incur borrowings or raise capital through the sale of debt or additional equity securities. Use of cash from operations will reduce cash available for distribution to unitholders. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Our failure to obtain the funds for future capital expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and on our ability to make cash distributions. Even if we are successful in obtaining necessary funds, the terms of such financings could limit our ability to pay cash distributions to unitholders. In addition, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional equity securities may result in significant unitholder dilution and would increase the aggregate amount of cash required to meet our minimum quarterly distribution to unitholders, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to make cash distributions. OPCO’s substantial debt levels may limit its or our flexibility in obtaining additional financing, pursuing other business opportunities and paying distributions to you. If we are awarded contracts for additional offshore projects, our consolidated debt and capital lease obligations may significantly increase. As at December 31, 2006, we and OPCO had the ability to incur additional debt, including approximately $315 million of borrowings available under OPCO’s revolving credit facilities, subject to limitations in the credit facilities. Our level of debt could have important consequences to us, including the following: · our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; · we will need a substantial portion of our cash flow to make principal and interest payments on our debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders; · our debt level will make us more vulnerable than our competitors with less debt to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and · our debt level may limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to effect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms, or at all. Financing agreements containing operating and financial restrictions may restrict OPCO’s and our business and financing activities. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in OPCO’s financing arrangements and any future financing agreements for OPCO or us could adversely affect its and our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand or pursue our business activities. For example, the arrangements may restrict OPCO’s or our ability to: · incur or guarantee indebtedness; · change ownership or structure, including mergers, consolidations, liquidations and dissolutions; · make dividends or distributions; · make certain negative pledges and grant certain liens; · sell, transfer, assign or convey assets; · make certain investments; and · enter into a new line of business. In addition, OPCO’s credit facilities require OPCO to maintain a minimum liquidity (cash, cash equivalents and undrawn committed revolving credit lines) of $75.0 million, with aggregate liquidity of not less than 5.0% of the total consolidated debt of OPCO and its subsidiaries. OPCO’s or our ability to comply with covenants and restrictions contained in debt instruments may be affected by events beyond its or our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, compliance with these covenants may be impaired. If restrictions, covenants, ratios or tests in the financing agreements are breached, a significant portion of the obligations may become immediately due and payable, and the lenders’ commitment to make further loans may terminate. Neither OPCO nor we might have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. In addition, obligations under OPCO’s credit facilities are secured by certain of its vessels, and if it is unable to repay debt under the credit facilities, the lenders could seek to foreclose on those assets. 11 Restrictions in OPCO’s debt agreements may prevent it or us from paying distributions. The payment of principal and interest on OPCO’s debt will reduce cash available for distribution to us and on our units. In addition, OPCO’s financing agreements will prohibit the payment of distributions upon the occurrence of the following events, among others: · failure to pay any principal, interest, fees, expenses or other amounts when due; · failure to notify the lenders of any material oil spill or discharge of hazardous material, or of any action or claim related thereto; · breach or lapse of any insurance with respect to the vessels; · breach of certain financial covenants; · failure to observe any other agreement, security instrument, obligation or covenant beyond specified cure periods in certain cases; · default under other indebtedness; · bankruptcy or insolvency events; · failure of any representation or warranty to be materially correct; · a change of control, as defined in the applicable agreement; and · a material adverse effect, as defined in the applicable agreement. OPCO derives a substantial majority of its revenues from a limited number of customers, and the loss of any such customers could result in a significant loss of revenues and cash flow. OPCO has derived, and we believe it will continue to derive, a substantial majority of revenues and cash flow from a limited number of customers. Teekay Shipping Corporation and Statoil ASA accounted for approximately 21% and 27%, respectively, of consolidated voyage revenues during the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 31% and 23%, respectively, of consolidated voyage revenues during 2005, and approximately 40% and 19%, respectively, of combined consolidated voyage revenues during 2004. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of revenues during any of these periods. If OPCO loses a key customer, it may be unable to obtain replacement long-term charters or contracts of affreightment and may become subject, with respect to any shuttle tankers redeployed on conventional oil tanker trades, to the volatile spot market, which is highly competitive and subject to significant price fluctuations. If a customer exercises its right under some charters to purchase the vessel, OPCO may be unable to acquire an adequate replacement vessel. Any replacement newbuilding would not generate revenues during its construction and OPCO may be unable to charter any replacement vessel on terms as favorable to it as those of the terminated charter. The loss of any of OPCO’s significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. We will depend on Teekay Shipping Corporation to assist us and OPCO in operating our businesses and competing in our markets. We, OPCO and operating subsidiaries of OPCO have entered, and any future operating subsidiaries of us may enter, into various services agreements with certain subsidiaries of Teekay Shipping Corporation pursuant to which those subsidiaries will provide to us and OPCO all of our and OPCO's administrative services and to the operating subsidiaries substantially all of their managerial, operational and administrative services (including vessel maintenance, crewing, purchasing, shipyard supervision, insurance and financial services) and other technical and advisory services. Our operational success and ability to execute our growth strategy will depend significantly upon the satisfactory performance of these services by the Teekay Shipping Corporation subsidiaries. Our business will be harmed if such subsidiaries fail to perform these services satisfactorily or if they stop providing these services to us, OPCO or its operating subsidiaries. Our ability to compete for offshore oil marine transportation, processing and storage projects and to enter into new charters or contracts of affreightment and expand our customer relationships will depend largely on our ability to leverage our relationship with Teekay Shipping Corporation and its reputation and relationships in the shipping industry. If Teekay Shipping Corporation suffers material damage to its reputation or relationships, it may harm our or OPCO’s ability to: · renew existing charters and contracts of affreightment upon their expiration; · obtain new charters and contracts of affreightment; · successfully interact with shipyards during periods of shipyard construction constraints; · obtain financing on commercially acceptable terms; or · maintain satisfactory relationships with suppliers and other third parties. If our or OPCO’s ability to do any of the things described above is impaired, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. 12 OPCO's operating subsidiaries and any of our future operating subsidiaries may also contract with certain subsidiaries of Teekay Shipping Corporation for the Teekay Shipping Corporation subsidiaries to have newbuildings constructed or existing vessels converted on behalf of the operating subsidiaries and to incur the construction-related financing. The operating subsidiaries would purchase the vessels on or after delivery based on an agreed-upon price. OPCO's operating subsidiaries do not currently have this type of arrangement with Teekay Shipping Corporation or any of its affiliates. Our growth depends on continued growth in demand for offshore oil transportation, processing and storage services. Our growth strategy focuses on expansion in the shuttle tanker, FSO and FPSO sectors. Accordingly, our growth depends on continued growth in world and regional demand for these offshore services, which could be negatively affected by a number of factors, such as: · decreases in the actual or projected price of oil, which could lead to a reduction in or termination of production of oil at certain fields we service or a reduction in exploration for or development of new offshore oil fields; · increases in the production of oil in areas linked by pipelines to consuming areas, the extension of existing, or the development of new, pipeline systems in markets we may serve, or the conversion of existing non-oil pipelines to oil pipelines in those markets; · decreases in the consumption of oil due to increases in its price relative to other energy sources, other factors making consumption of oil less attractive or energy conservation measures; · availability of new, alternative energy sources; and · negative global or regional economic or political conditions, particularly in oil consuming regions, which could reduce energy consumption or its growth. Reduced demand for offshore marine transportation, processing or storage services would have a material adverse effect on our future growth and could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Because payments under OPCO’s contracts of affreightment are based on the volume of oil it transports, OPCO’s utilization of its shuttle tanker fleet and the success of its shuttle tanker business depends upon continued production from existing or new oil fields it services, which is beyond our or OPCO’s control and generally declines naturally over time. Any decrease in the volume of oil OPCO transports under contracts of affreightment could adversely affect our business and operating results. A majority of OPCO’s shuttle tankers operate under contracts of affreightment. Payments under these contracts of affreightment are based upon the volume of oil OPCO transports, which depends upon the level of oil production at the fields OPCO services under the contracts. Oil production levels are affected by several factors, all of which are beyond our or OPCO’s control, including: geologic factors, including general declines in production that occur naturally over time; the rate of technical developments in extracting oil and related infrastructure and implementation costs; and operator decisions based on revenue compared to costs from continued operations. Factors that may affect an operator’s decision to initiate or continue production include: changes in oil prices; capital budget limitations; the availability of necessary drilling and other governmental permits; the availability of qualified personnel and equipment; the quality of drilling prospects in the area; and regulatory changes. In addition, the volume of oil OPCO transports may be adversely affected by extended repairs to oil field installations or suspensions of field operations as a result of oil spills or otherwise. The rate of oil production at fields OPCO services may decline from existing or future levels, and may be terminated. If such a reduction or termination occurs, the spot market rates, if any, in the conventional oil tanker trades at which OPCO may be able to redeploy the affected shuttle tankers may be lower than the rates previously earned by the vessels under the contracts of affreightment, which would reduce its and our results of operations and ability to make cash distributions. The duration of many of OPCO’s shuttle tanker and FSO contracts is the life of the relevant oil field or is subject to extension by the field operator or vessel charterer. If the oil field no longer produces oil or is abandoned or the contract term is not extended, OPCO will no longer generate revenue under the related contract and will need to seek to redeploy affected vessels. Many of OPCO’s shuttle tanker contracts have a “life-of-field” duration, which means that the contract continues until oil production at the field ceases. If production terminates for any reason, OPCO no longer will generate revenue under the related contract. Other shuttle tanker and FSO contracts under which OPCO’s vessels operate are subject to extensions beyond their initial term. The likelihood of these contracts being extended may be negatively affected by reductions in oil field reserves, low oil prices generally or other factors. If OPCO is unable to promptly redeploy any affected vessels at rates at least equal to those under the contracts, if at all, its and our operating results will be harmed. Any potential redeployment may not be under long-term contracts, which may affect the stability of OPCO’s and our cash flow and ability to make cash distributions. The results of OPCO’s shuttle tanker operations in the North Sea are subject to seasonal fluctuations. Due to harsh winter weather conditions, oil field operators in the North Sea typically schedule oil platform and other infrastructure repairs and maintenance during the summer months. Because the North Sea is our primary existing offshore oil market, this seasonal repair and maintenance activity contributes to quarter-to-quarter volatility in our results of operations, as oil production typically is lower in the second and third quarters in this region compared with production in the first and fourth quarters. Because a significant portion of OPCO’s North Sea shuttle tankers operate under contracts of affreightment, under which revenue is based on the volume of oil transported, the results of these shuttle tanker operations in the North Sea under these contracts generally reflect this seasonal production pattern. When OPCO redeploys affected shuttle tankers as conventional oil tankers while platform maintenance and repairs are conducted, the overall financial results for its North Sea shuttle tanker operations may be negatively affected as the rates in the conventional oil tanker markets at times may be lower than contract of affreightment rates. In addition, OPCO seeks to coordinate some of the general drydocking schedule of its fleet with this seasonality, which may result in lower revenues and increased drydocking expenses during the summer months. 13 Our growth depends on our ability to expand relationships with existing customers and obtain new customers, for which we will face substantial competition. One of our principal objectives is to enter into additional long-term, fixed-rate time charters and contracts of affreightment. The process of obtaining new long-term time charters and contracts of affreightment is highly competitive and generally involves an intensive screening process and competitive bids, and often extends for several months. Shuttle tanker, FSO and FPSO contracts are awarded based upon a variety of factors relating to the vessel operator, including: · industry relationships and reputation for customer service and safety; · experience and quality of ship operations; · quality, experience and technical capability of the crew; · relationships with shipyards and the ability to get suitable berths; · construction management experience, including the ability to obtain on-time delivery of new vessels according to customer specifications; · willingness to accept operational risks pursuant to the charter, such as allowing termination of the charter for force majeure events; and · competitiveness of the bid in terms of overall price. We expect substantial competition for providing services for potential shuttle tanker, FSO and FPSO projects from a number of experienced companies, including state-sponsored entities. OPCO’s Aframax conventional tanker business also faces substantial competition from major oil companies, independent owners and operators and other sized tankers. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources than do we, OPCO or Teekay Shipping Corporation, which also may compete with us. We anticipate that an increasing number of marine transportation companies — including many with strong reputations and extensive resources and experience — will enter the FSO and FPSO sectors. This increased competition may cause greater price competition for charters. As a result of these factors, we may be unable to expand our relationships with existing customers or to obtain new customers on a profitable basis, if at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. Delays in deliveries of newbuilding vessels or of conversions of existing vessels could harm our operating results. The delivery of any newbuildings or vessel conversions we may order could be delayed, which would delay our receipt of revenues under the charters or other contracts related to the vessels. In addition, under some charters we may enter into that are related to a newbuilding or conversion, if our delivery of the newbuilding or converted vessel to our customer is delayed, we may be required to pay liquidated damages during the delay. For prolonged delays, the customer may terminate the charter and, in addition to the resulting loss of revenues, we may be responsible for substantial liquidated damages. The completion and delivery of newbuildings or vessel conversions could be delayed because of: · quality or engineering problems, the risk of which may be increased with FPSO units due to their technical complexity; · changes in governmental regulations or maritime self-regulatory organization standards; · work stoppages or other labor disturbances at the shipyard; · bankruptcy or other financial crisis of the shipbuilder; · a backlog of orders at the shipyard; · political or economic disturbances; · weather interference or catastrophic event, such as a major earthquake or fire; · requests for changes to the original vessel specifications; · shortages of or delays in the receipt of necessary construction materials, such as steel; · inability to finance the construction or conversion of the vessels; or · inability to obtain requisite permits or approvals. If delivery of a vessel is materially delayed, it could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. 14 Charter rates for conventional oil tankers may fluctuate substantially over time and may be lower when we are or OPCO is attempting to recharter conventional oil tankers, which could adversely affect operating results. Any changes in charter rates for shuttle tankers or FSO or FPSO units could also adversely affect redeployment opportunities for those vessels. Our ability to recharter OPCO's conventional oil tankers following expiration of existing time-charter contracts commencing in 2011 and the rates payable upon any renewal or replacement charters will depend upon, among other things, the state of the conventional tanker market. Conventional oil tanker trades are highly competitive and have experienced significant fluctuations in charter rates based on, among other things, oil and vessel demand. For example, an oversupply of conventional oil tankers can significantly reduce their charter rates. There also exists some volatility in charter rates for shuttle tankers and FSO and FPSO units. Six of OPCO's fixed-term charters and eleven contracts of affreightment (representing approximately 10% of OPCO's aggregate contract of affreightment volumes) are scheduled to expire prior to December 31, 2008. If, upon expiration or termination of these or other contracts, long-term recharter rates are lower than existing rates, our earnings and cash flow under any new contracts could be adversely affected. Over time, vessel values may fluctuate substantially and, if these values are lower at a time when we are or OPCO is attempting to dispose of vessels, we or OPCO may incur a loss. Vessel values for shuttle tankers, conventional oil tankers and FSO and FPSO units can fluctuate substantially over time due to a number of different factors, including: · prevailing economic conditions in oil and energy markets; · a substantial or extended decline in demand for oil; · increases in the supply of vessel capacity; and · the cost of retrofitting or modifying existing vessels, as a result of technological advances in vessel design or equipment, changes in applicable environmental or other regulations or standards, or otherwise. If a charter or contract of affreightment terminates, we or OPCO may be unable to re-deploy the affected vessels at attractive rates and, rather than continue to incur costs to maintain and finance them, may seek to dispose of them. Inability to dispose of vessels at a reasonable value could result in a loss on their sale and adversely affect our or OPCO’s results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to make or realize expected benefits from acquisitions, and implementing our growth strategy through acquisitions may harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Our growth strategy includes selectively acquiring existing shuttle tankers and FSO and FPSO units or businesses that own or operate these types of vessels. Historically, there have been very few purchases of existing vessels and businesses in the FSO and FPSO segments. Factors that may contribute to a limited number of acquisition opportunities for FSO units and FPSO units in the near term include the relatively small number of independent FSO and FPSO fleet owners. In addition, competition from other companies, many of which have significantly greater financial resources than do we or Teekay Shipping Corporation, could reduce our acquisition opportunities or cause us to pay higher prices. Any acquisition of a vessel or business may not be profitable at or after the time of acquisition and may not generate cash flow sufficient to justify the investment. In addition, our acquisition growth strategy exposes us to risks that may harm our business, financial condition and operating results, including risks that we may: · fail to realize anticipated benefits, such as new customer relationships, cost-savings or cash flow enhancements; · be unable to hire, train or retain qualified shore and seafaring personnel to manage and operate our growing business and fleet; · decrease our liquidity by using a significant portion of available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions; · significantly increase our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance acquisitions; · incur or assume unanticipated liabilities, losses or costs associated with the business or vessels acquired; or · incur other significant charges, such as impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges. Unlike newbuildings, existing vessels typically do not carry warranties as to their condition. While we generally inspect existing vessels prior to purchase, such an inspection would normally not provide us with as much knowledge of a vessel’s condition as we would possess if it had been built for us and operated by us during its life. Repairs and maintenance costs for existing vessels are difficult to predict and may be substantially higher than for vessels we have operated since they were built. These costs could decrease our cash flow and reduce our liquidity. Terrorist attacks, increased hostilities or war could lead to further economic instability, increased costs and disruption of business. Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred in the United States on September 11, 2001, and the current conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan and other current and future conflicts, may adversely affect our or OPCO’s business, operating results, financial condition, ability to raise capital and future growth. Continuing hostilities in the Middle East may lead to additional armed conflicts or to further acts of terrorism and civil disturbance in the United States or elsewhere, which may contribute further to economic instability and disruption of oil production and distribution, which could result in reduced demand for our or OPCO’s services. 15 In addition, oil facilities, shipyards, vessels, pipelines and oil fields could be targets of future terrorist attacks. Any such attacks could lead to, among other things, bodily injury or loss of life, vessel or other property damage, increased vessel operational costs, including insurance costs, and the inability to transport oil to or from certain locations. Terrorist attacks, war or other events beyond our control that adversely affect the distribution, production or transportation of oil to be shipped by us could entitle customers to terminate the charters and impact the use of shuttle tankers under contracts of affreightment, which would harm our or OPCO’s cash flow and business. Operations outside the United States expose us and OPCO to political, governmental and economic instability, which could harm our and its operations. Because OPCO’s operations are primarily conducted outside of the United States, they may be affected by economic, political and governmental conditions in the countries where it engages in business or where its vessels are registered. Any disruption caused by these factors could harm its or our business, including by reducing the levels of oil exploration, development and production activities in these areas. OPCO derives some of its revenues from shipping oil from politically unstable regions. Conflicts in these regions have included attacks on ships and other efforts to disrupt shipping. In addition, vessels trading in some of these regions have been subject, in limited instances, to piracy. Hostilities or other political instability in regions where OPCO operates or where we or OPCO may operate could have a material adverse effect on the growth of our or its business, results of operations and financial condition and ability to make cash distributions. In addition, tariffs, trade embargoes and other economic sanctions by the United States or other countries against countries in Southeast Asia or elsewhere as a result of terrorist attacks, hostilities or otherwise may limit trading activities with those countries, which could also harm our or OPCO’s business and ability to make cash distributions. Finally, a government could requisition one or more of our vessels, which is most likely during war or national emergency. Any such requisition would cause a loss of the vessel and could harm our cash flow and financial results. Marine transportation is inherently risky, particularly in the extreme conditions in which many of OPCO’s vessels operate. An incident involving significant loss of product or environmental contamination by any of its vessels could harm its and our reputation and business. Vessels and their cargoes and oil production facilities OPCO services are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as: · marine disasters; · bad weather; · mechanical failures; · grounding, capsizing, fire, explosions and collisions; · piracy; · human error; and · war and terrorism. OPCO’s shuttle tanker fleet primarily operates in the North Sea. Harsh weather conditions in this region (or other regions in which it operates or we or it in the future may operate) may increase the risk of collisions, oil spills, or mechanical failures. An accident involving any of our or OPCO’s vessels could result in any of the following: · death or injury to persons, loss of property or damage to the environment and natural resources; · delays in the delivery of cargo; · loss of revenues from charters or contracts of affreightment; · liabilities or costs to recover any spilled oil or other petroleum products and to restore the eco-system where the spill occurred; · governmental fines, penalties or restrictions on conducting business; · higher insurance rates; and · damage to our and OPCO’s reputation and customer relationships generally. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our and OPCO’s business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, any damage to, or environmental contamination involving, oil production facilities serviced could suspend that service and result in loss of revenues. Insurance may be insufficient to cover losses that may occur to our or OPCO’s property or result from our or its operations. The operation of shuttle tankers, conventional oil tankers and FSO and FPSO units is inherently risky. All risks may not be adequately insured against, and any particular claim may not be paid by insurance. In addition, substantially all of OPCO’s vessels are not insured against loss of revenues resulting from vessel off-hire time, based on the cost of this insurance compared to OPCO’s off-hire experience. Any claims covered by insurance would be subject to deductibles, and since it is possible that a large number of claims may be brought, the aggregate amount of these deductibles could be material. Certain insurance coverage is maintained through mutual protection and indemnity associations, and as a member of such associations OPCO or we may be required to make additional payments over and above budgeted premiums if member claims exceed association reserves. 16 We or OPCO may be unable to procure adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates in the future. For example, more stringent environmental regulations have led in the past to increased costs for, and in the future may result in the lack of availability of, insurance against risks of environmental damage or pollution. A catastrophic oil spill or marine disaster could exceed the insurance coverage, which could harm our or OPCO’s business, financial condition and operating results. Any uninsured or underinsured loss could harm our or OPCO’s business and financial condition. In addition, the insurance may be voidable by the insurers as a result of certain actions, such as vessels failing to maintain certification with applicable maritime self-regulatory organizations. Changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks may also make certain types of insurance more difficult to obtain. In addition, the insurance that may be available may be significantly more expensive than existing coverage. We or OPCO may experience operational problems with vessels that reduce revenue and increase costs. Shuttle tankers are complex and their operation is technically challenging. To the extent we acquire FPSO units, this complexity and challenge will increase. Marine transportation operations are subject to mechanical risks and problems. Operational problems may lead to loss of revenue or higher than anticipated operating expenses or require additional capital expenditures. Any of these results could harm our or OPCO’s business, financial condition and operating results. The offshore shipping and storage industry is subject to substantial environmental and other regulations, which may significantly limit operations or increase expenses. OPCO’s operations are affected by extensive and changing environmental protection laws and other regulations and international conventions, including those relating to equipping and operating offshore vessels and vessel safety. OPCO has incurred, and expects to continue to incur, substantial expenses in complying with these laws and regulations, including expenses for vessel modifications and changes in operating procedures. Additional laws and regulations may be adopted that could limit our or OPCO’s ability to do business or further increase costs, which could harm our or OPCO’s business. In addition, failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of operations. We may become subject to additional laws and regulations if we enter new markets or trades. In addition to international regulations affecting oil tankers generally, countries having jurisdiction over North Sea areas also impose regulatory requirements applicable to operations in those areas. Operators of North Sea oil fields impose further requirements. As a result, OPCO must make significant expenditures for sophisticated equipment, reporting and redundancy systems on its shuttle tankers. Additional regulations and requirements may be adopted or imposed that could limit OPCO’s or our ability to do business or further increase the cost of doing business in the North Sea or other regions in which OPCO now or we or OPCO in the future may operate. The United States Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (or OPA 90) also has increased expenses in the industry. OPA 90 provides for potentially unlimited joint, several, and strict liability for owners, operators and demise or bareboat charterers for oil pollution and related damages in U.S. waters, which include the U.S. territorial sea and the 200-nautical mile exclusive economic zone around the United States. OPA 90 applies to discharges of any oil from a vessel, including discharges of oil tanker cargoes and discharges of fuel and lubricants from an oil tanker. To comply with OPA 90, vessel owners generally incur increased costs in meeting additional maintenance and inspection requirements, in developing contingency arrangements for potential spills and in obtaining required insurance coverage. OPA 90 contains financial responsibility requirements for vessels operating in U.S. waters and requires vessel owners and operators to establish and maintain with the U.S. Coast Guard evidence of insurance or of qualification as a self-insurer or other acceptable evidence of financial responsibility sufficient to meet certain potential liabilities under OPA 90 and the U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (or CERCLA), which imposes similar liabilities upon owners, operators and bareboat charterers of vessels from which a discharge of “hazardous substances” (other than oil) occurs. Under OPA 90 and CERCLA, owners, operators and bareboat charterers are jointly and severally strictly liable for costs of cleanup and damages resulting from a discharge or threatened discharge within U.S. waters. This means we and OPCO may be subject to liability even if not negligent or at fault. OPA 90 and CERCLA do not preclude claimants from seeking damages resulting from the discharge of oil and hazardous substances under other applicable law, including maritime tort law. Many states in the United States bordering on a navigable waterway have enacted legislation providing for potentially unlimited strict liability without regard to fault for the discharge of pollutants within their waters. An oil spill or other event could result in significant liability, including fines, penalties, criminal liability and costs for natural resource damages. The potential for these releases could increase to the extent we increase our operations in U.S. waters. In addition, we believe that the heightened environmental, quality and security concerns of insurance underwriters, regulators and charterers will generally lead to additional regulatory requirements, including enhanced risk assessment and security requirements and greater inspection and safety requirements on all vessels in the oil tanker markets. These requirements are likely to add incremental costs to our and OPCO’s operations and the failure to fulfill these requirements may affect the ability of our and OPCO’s vessels to obtain and, possibly, collect on insurance or to obtain the required certificates for entry into the different ports where OPCO operates. Our and OPCO’s business is indirectly affected by price controls, tax and accounting regimes and other regulations that apply to the oil industry generally and offshore exploration, development and production activities specifically. New regulations that restrict any of these activities could decrease demand for services and have a material adverse effect on our or OPCO’s business, financial condition and operating results. 17 Exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations will result in fluctuations in cash flows and operating results. OPCO currently is paid partly in Norwegian Kroners under two time-charters. In addition, we, OPCO and its operating subsidiaries have entered into services agreements with certain subsidiaries of Teekay Shipping Corporation pursuant to which those subsidiaries provide to us and OPCO administrative services and to OPCO's operating subsidiaries managerial, operational and administrative services. Under the services agreements, Teekay Shipping Corporation is paid in U.S. dollars for reasonable direct and indirect expenses incurred in providing the services. A substantial majority of those expenses are in Norwegian Kroners. The Teekay Shipping Corporation subsidiaries are paid under the services agreements based on a fixed U.S. Dollar/Norwegian Kroner exchange rate until December 31, 2008. Thereafter, the exchange rate is not fixed, which may result in increased payments under the services agreements if the strength of the U.S. Dollar declines relative to the Norwegian Kroner. Many seafaring employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements and the failure to renew those agreements or any future labor agreements may disrupt operations and adversely affect our cash flows. A significant portion of Teekay Shipping Corporation’s seafarers that crew certain OPCO vessels and Norwegian-based onshore operational staff that provide services to us, OPCO and its operating subsidiaries are employed under collective bargaining agreements. Teekay Shipping Corporation may be subject to additional labor agreements in the future. Teekay Shipping Corporation may be subject to labor disruptions if relationships deteriorate with the seafarers or the unions that represent them. The collective bargaining agreements may not prevent labor disruptions, particularly when the agreements are being renegotiated. Salaries are typically renegotiated annually or bi-annually for seafarers and annually for onshore operational staff. Although these negotiations have not caused labor disruptions in the past, any future labor disruptions could harm our or OPCO’s operations and could have a material adverse effect on our or its business, results of operations and financial condition and ability to make cash distributions. Teekay Shipping Corporation and its affiliates may engage in competition with OPCO and us. Teekay Shipping Corporation and its affiliates may engage in competition with us. Pursuant to an omnibus agreement we entered into in connection with our initial public offering, Teekay Shipping Corporation, Teekay LNG Partners L.P (NYSE: TGP). and their respective controlled affiliates (other than us, OPCO and its and our subsidiaries) generally will agree not to engage in, acquire or invest in any business that owns, operates or charters (a) dynamically-positioned shuttle tankers (other than those operating in the conventional oil tanker trade under contracts with a remaining duration of less than three years, excluding extension options), (b) FSO units or (c) FPSO units (collectively offshore vessels) without the consent of our general partner. The omnibus agreement, however, allows Teekay Shipping Corporation, Teekay LNG Partners L.P. and any of such controlled affiliates to: · own, operate and charter offshore vessels if the remaining duration of the time charter or contract of affreightment for the vessel, excluding any extension options, is less than three years; · own, operate and charter offshore vessels and related time charters or contracts of affreightment acquired as part of a business or package of assets and operating or chartering those vessels if a majority of the value of the total assets or business acquired is not attributable to the offshore vessels and related contracts, as determined in good faith by Teekay Shipping Corporation’s Board of Directors or the conflicts committee of the Board of Directors of Teekay LNG Partners’ general partner, as applicable; however, if at any time Teekay Shipping Corporation or Teekay LNG Partners completes such an acquisition, it must, within 365 days of the closing of the transaction, offer to sell the offshore vessels and related contracts to us for their fair market value plus any additional tax or other similar costs to Teekay Shipping Corporation or Teekay LNG Partners that would be required to transfer the vessels and contracts to us separately from the acquired business or package of assets; or · own, operate and charter offshore vessels and related time charters and contracts of affreightment that relate to tender, bid or award for a proposed offshore project that Teekay Shipping Corporation or any of its subsidiaries has submitted or received hereafter submits or receives; however, at least 365 days after the delivery date of any such offshore vessel, Teekay Shipping Corporation must offer to sell the vessel and related time charter or contract of affreightment to us, with the vessel valued (a) for newbuildings originally contracted by Teekay Shipping Corporation, at its “fully-built-up cost” (which represents the aggregate expenditures incurred (or to be incurred prior to delivery to us) by Teekay Shipping Corporation to acquire, construct and/or convert and bring such offshore vessel to the condition and location necessary for our intended use, plus project development costs for completed projects and projects that were not completed but, if completed, would have been subject to an offer to us) and (b) for any other vessels, Teekay Shipping Corporation’s cost to acquire a newbuilding from a third party or the fair market value of an existing vessel, as applicable, plus in each case any subsequent expenditures that would be included in the “fully-built-up cost” of converting the vessel prior to delivery to us. If we decline the offer to purchase the offshore vessels and time charters described in the immediately preceding two bullet points, Teekay Shipping Corporation or Teekay LNG Partners, as applicable, may own and operate the offshore vessels, but may not expand that portion of its business. In addition, pursuant to the omnibus agreement, Teekay Shipping Corporation, Teekay LNG Partners and any of their respective controlled affiliates (other than us, OPCO and its and our subsidiaries) may: · acquire, operate and charter offshore vessels and related time charters and contracts of affreightment if our general partner has previously advised Teekay Shipping Corporation or Teekay LNG Partners that our general partner’s Board of Directors has elected, with the approval of its conflicts committee, not to cause us or our controlled affiliates to acquire or operate the vessels and related time charters and contracts of affreightment; · acquire up to a 9.9% equity ownership, voting or profit participation interest in any publicly traded company engages in, acquires or invests in any business that owns or operates or charters offshore vessels and related time charters and contracts of affreightment; · provide ship management services relating to owning, operating or chartering offshore vessels and related time charters and contracts of affreightment; or · own a limited partner interest in OPCO or own shares of Teekay Petrojarl (formally Petrojarl ASA. And referred to herein as Petrojarl). 18 In addition, Petrojarl has the right to continue to own, operate and charter its four FPSOs and one shuttle tanker until such time, if ever, Teekay Shipping Corporation acquires 100% of Petrojarl. If that happens, Teekay Shipping Corporation will be required to offer to us certain of Petrojarl’s fleet and Petrojarl’s interests in its joint venture projects with Teekay Shipping corporation. As at December 31, 2006, Teekay Shipping Corporation owned 64.5% of Petrojarl. If there is a change of control of Teekay Shipping Corporation or of the general partner of Teekay LNG Partners, the non-competition provisions of the omnibus agreement may terminate, which termination could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. Our general partner and its other affiliates own a controlling interest in us and have conflicts of interest and limited fiduciary duties, which may permit them to favor their own interests to those of unitholders. Teekay Shipping Corporation indirectly owns the 2.0% general partner interest and a 57.75% limited partner interest in us and owns and controls our general partner, which controls us. Although our general partner has a fiduciary duty to manage us in a manner beneficial to us and our unitholders, the directors and officers of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to Teekay Shipping Corporation. Furthermore, certain directors and officers of our general partner are directors or officers of affiliates of our general partner. Conflicts of interest may arise between Teekay Shipping Corporation and its affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: · neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires Teekay Shipping Corporation or its affiliates (other than our general partner) to pursue a business strategy that favors us or utilizes our assets, and Teekay Shipping Corporation’s officers and directors have a fiduciary duty to make decisions in the best interests of the stockholders of Teekay Shipping Corporation, which may be contrary to our interests; · the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer and three of the directors of our general partner also serve as executive officers or directors of Teekay Shipping Corporation and the general partner of Teekay LNG Partners L.P.; · our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as Teekay Shipping Corporation, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duty to our unitholders; · our general partner has limited its liability and reduced its fiduciary duties under the laws of the Marshall Islands, while also restricting the remedies available to our unitholders and unitholders are treated as having agreed to the modified standard of fiduciary duties and to certain actions that may be taken by our general partner, all as set forth in our partnership agreement; · our general partner determines the amount and timing of our asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings, issuances of additional partnership securities and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is available for distribution to our unitholders; · in some instances, our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a distribution on the subordinated units or to make incentive distributions or to accelerate the expiration of the subordination period relating to our subordinated units held by Teekay Shipping Corporation; · our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; · our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us on terms that are fair and reasonable or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf; · our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations; · our general partner may exercise its right to call and purchase common units if it and its affiliates own more than 80.0% of our common units; · our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by it and its affiliates; and · our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. Although we control OPCO through our ownership of its general partner, OPCO’s general partner owes fiduciary duties to OPCO and OPCO’s other partner, Teekay Shipping Corporation, which may conflict with the interests of us and our unitholders. Conflicts of interest may arise as a result of the relationships between us and our unitholders, on the one hand, and OPCO, its general partner and its other limited partner, Teekay Shipping Corporation, on the other hand. Teekay Shipping Corporation owns a 74.0% limited partner interest in OPCO and controls our general partner, which appoints the directors of OPCO’s general partner. The directors and officers of OPCO’s general partner have fiduciary duties to manage OPCO in a manner beneficial to us, as such general partner’s owner. At the same time, OPCO’s general partner has a fiduciary duty to manage OPCO in a manner beneficial to OPCO’s limited partners, including Teekay Shipping Corporation. The Board of Directors of our general partner may resolve any such conflict and has broad latitude to consider the interests of all parties to the conflict. The resolution of these conflicts may not be in the best interest of us or our unitholders. For example, conflicts of interest may arise in the following situations: · the allocation of shared overhead expenses to OPCO and us; · the interpretation and enforcement of contractual obligations between us and our affiliates, on the one hand, and OPCO or its subsidiaries, on the other hand; 19 · the determination and timing of the amount of cash to be distributed to OPCO’s partners and the amount of cash to be reserved for the future conduct of OPCO’s business; · the decision as to whether OPCO should make asset or business acquisitions or dispositions, and on what terms; · the determination or the amount and timing of OPCO’s capital expenditures; · the determination of whether OPCO should use cash on hand, borrow or issue equity to raise cash to finance maintenance or expansion capital projects, repay indebtedness, meet working capital needs or otherwise; and · any decision we make to engage in business activities independent of, or in competition with, OPCO. The fiduciary duties of the officers and directors of our general partner may conflict with those of the officers and directors of OPCO’s general partner. Our general partner’s officers and directors have fiduciary duties to manage our business in a manner beneficial to us and our partners. However, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer and all of the non-independent directors of our general partner also serve as executive officers or directors of OPCO’s general partner and of Teekay Shipping Corporation and the general partner of Teekay LNG Partners L.P., and, as a result, have fiduciary duties, among others, to manage the business of OPCO in a manner beneficial to OPCO and its partners, including Teekay Shipping Corporation. Consequently, these officers and directors may encounter situations in which their fiduciary obligations to OPCO, Teekay Shipping Corporation or Teekay LNG Partners L.P., on one hand, and us, on the other hand, are in conflict. The resolution of these conflicts may not always be in the best interest of us or our unitholders. Item 