Item 1A. Risk Factors The Dodd-Frank Act, Among Other Things, Established the CFPB, Tightened Capital Standards and Will Continue to Result In New Laws and Regulations That Are Expected to Increase Our Costs of Operations. The Dodd-Frank Act is significantly changing the current bank regulatory structure and affecting the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. However, it is expected that the legislation and implementing regulations will materially increase our operating and compliance costs. The Dodd-Frank Act created the CFPB with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The CFPB has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The CFPB has examination and enforcement authority over all banks with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks with $10 billion or less in assets, such as ESSA Bank & Trust, will continue to be examined for compliance with the consumer laws by their primary bank regulators. The Dodd-Frank Act also weakens the federal preemption rules that have been applicable for national banks and federal savings associations, and gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce federal consumer protection laws. 25 Table of Contents The Dodd-Frank Act requires minimum leverage (Tier 1) and risk-based capital requirements for bank and savings and loan holding companies that are no less than those applicable to banks, which will exclude certain instruments that previously have been eligible for inclusion by bank holding companies as Tier 1 capital, such as trust preferred securities. Effective July 21, 2011, the Dodd-Frank Act eliminated the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts, which could result in an increase in our interest expense. The Dodd-Frank Act also broadens the base for FDIC deposit insurance assessments. Assessments are now based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution, rather than deposits. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increases the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor, retroactive to January 1, 2009, and non-interest bearing transaction accounts had unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2012. The legislation also increases the required minimum reserve ratio for the Deposit Insurance Fund from 1.15% to 1.35% of insured deposits, and directs the FDIC to offset the effects of increased assessments on depository institutions with less than $10 billion in assets. The Dodd-Frank Act requires publicly traded companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments. It also provides that the listing standards of the national securities exchanges shall require listed companies to implement and disclose “clawback” policies mandating the recovery of incentive compensation paid to executive officers in connection with accounting restatements. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives. Effective December 10, 2013, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, federal banking and securities regulators issued final rules to implement Section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act (the “Volcker Rule”). Generally, subject to a transition period and certain exceptions, the Volcker Rule restricts insured depository institutions and their affiliated companies from engaging in short-term proprietary trading of certain securities, investing in funds with collateral comprised of less than 100% loans that are not registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and from engaging in hedging activities that do not hedge a specific identified risk. After the transition period, the Volcker Rule prohibitions and restrictions will apply to banking entities, including the Company, unless an exception applies. New Regulations Could Restrict Our Ability to Originate and Sell Mortgage Loans. The CFPB has issued a rule designed to clarify for lenders how they can avoid monetary damages under the Dodd-Frank Act, which would hold lenders accountable for ensuring a borrower’s ability to repay a mortgage. Loans that meet this “qualified mortgage” definition will be presumed to have complied with the new ability-to-repay standard. Under the CFPB’s rule, a “qualified mortgage” loan must not contain certain specified features, including: • excessive upfront points and fees (those exceeding 3% of the total loan amount, less “bona fide discount points” for prime loans); • interest-only payments; • negative-amortization; and • terms longer than 30 years. Also, to qualify as a “qualified mortgage,” a borrower’s total debt-to-income ratio may not exceed 43%. Lenders must also verify and document the income and financial resources relied upon to qualify the borrower for the loan and underwrite the loan based on a fully amortizing payment schedule and maximum interest rate during the first five years, taking into account all applicable taxes, insurance and assessments. The CFPB’s rule on qualified mortgages could limit our ability or desire to make certain types of loans or loans to certain borrowers, or could make it more expensive/and or time consuming to make these loans, which could limit our growth or profitability. Increases to the Allowance for Credit Losses May Cause Our Earnings to Decrease. Our customers may not repay their loans according to the original terms, and the collateral securing the payment of those loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. In addition, the estimates used to determine the fair value of such loans as of the acquisition date may be inconsistent with the actual performance of the acquired loans. Hence, we may experience significant credit losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for credit losses, we rely on loan quality reviews, past loss experience, and an evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to the allowance. Material additions to the allowance would materially decrease our net income. 26 Table of Contents Our emphasis on the origination of commercial real estate and business loans is one of the more significant factors in evaluating our allowance for credit losses. As we continue to increase the amount of these loans, additional or increased provisions for credit losses may be necessary and as a result would decrease our earnings. Bank regulators periodically review our allowance for credit losses and may require us to increase our provision for credit losses or loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for credit losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and/or financial condition. Future Changes in Interest Rates Could Reduce Our Profits. Our ability to make a profit largely depends on our net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest income is the difference between: 1. the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities; and 2. the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. From September, 2007 through December, 2008, the Federal Reserve Board of Governors decreased its target for the federal funds rate from 5.25% to 0.25%. The federal funds rate has remained at 0.25% since December 2008 and is expected to remain at or around that level for an extended period of time. While these short term market interest rates (which we use as a guide to price our deposits) decreased, longer term market interest rates (which we use as a guide to price our longer term loans) also decreased but not to the same degree. With the decline in shorter term market interest rates the Company’s cost of funds declined. This decline in our cost of funds was initially beneficial to our net interest spread. However, as short term market rates have remained low and longer term interest rates also declined, the Company’s net interest margin decreased from 2.93% for the year ended September 30, 2009 to 2.65% for the year ended September 30, 2012. The Company’s acquisition of First Star Bancorp was effective July 31, 2012. The acquisition, along with increases in longer term interest rates during the third and fourth quarter of our 2013 fiscal year helped to increase our net interest margin to 3.08% for the year ended September 30, 2013. Rates remained low during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2014. The resulting decline in the yield on our interest earning assets outpaced the decline in the cost of our interest bearing liabilities resulting in a decline in our net interest margin to 2.97% for the year ended September 30, 2014 from 3.08% for the year ended September 30, 2013. If shorter term interest rates increase or if longer term interest rates decline, there could be further negative pressure exerted on our net interest margin. In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities. A reduction in interest rates results in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities, as borrowers refinance their loans in order to reduce their borrowing costs. This creates reinvestment risk, which is the risk that we may not be able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities. Alternatively, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. Changes in interest rates also affect the current market value of our interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. At September 30, 2014, the fair value of our debt securities available for sale totaled $383.1 million. Unrealized net gains on these available for sale securities totaled approximately $984,000 at September 30, 2014 and are reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale in future periods would have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity. We evaluate interest rate sensitivity by estimating the change in ESSA Bank & Trust’s Economic Value of Equity (EVE) over a range of interest rate scenarios. EVE is the net present value of the Company’s asset cash flows minus the net present value of the Company’s liability cash flows. At September 30, 2014, in the event of an immediate 200 basis point increase in interest rates, the Company’s model projects that we would experience a $33.3 million, or 17.3%, decrease in net portfolio value. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Management of Market Risk.” Concentration of Loans in Our Primary Market Area, Which Has Experienced an Economic Downturn, May Increase the Risk of Increased Nonperforming Assets. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in the Pennsylvania counties of Monroe, Northampton, and Lehigh as nearly all of our loans are to customers in these markets. Accordingly, the local economic conditions in these market areas has a significant impact on the ability of borrowers to repay loans as well as our ability to originate new loans. As such, a continuation of the decline in real estate values in these market areas would also lower the value of the collateral securing loans on properties in these market areas. In addition, continued weakening in general economic conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control could negatively affect our financial results. 27 Table of Contents Continued and Sustained Deterioration in the Housing Sector and Related Markets and Prolonged Elevated Unemployment Levels May Adversely Affect Our Business and Financial Results. Over the last several years, general economic conditions continued to worsen nationally as well as in our market area. While we did not invest in sub-prime mortgages and related investments, our lending business is tied significantly to the housing market. Declines in home prices, and increases in foreclosures and unemployment levels, have adversely impacted the credit performance of real estate loans, resulting in the write-down of asset values. The continuing housing slump has resulted in reduced demand for the construction of new housing, further declines in home prices, and increased delinquencies on construction, residential and commercial mortgage loans. The ongoing concern about the economy in general has caused many lenders to reduce or cease providing funding to borrowers. These conditions may also cause a further reduction in loan demand, and increases in our non-performing assets, net charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. A worsening of these negative economic conditions could adversely affect our prospects for growth, asset and goodwill valuations and could result in a decrease in our interest income and a material increase in our provision for loan losses. Our Continued Emphasis On Commercial Real Estate Lending Increases Our Exposure To Increased Lending Risks. Our business strategy centers on continuing our emphasis on commercial real estate lending. We have grown our loan portfolio in recent years with respect to this type of loan and intend to continue to emphasize this type of lending. At September 30, 2014, $190.5 million, or 17.9%, of our total loan portfolio consisted of commercial real estate loans. Loans secured by commercial real estate generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one-to-four family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the commercial real estate loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the underlying property. Additionally, such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one-to-four family residential mortgage loans. Accordingly, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one-to-four family residential mortgage loan. We seek to minimize these risks through our underwriting policies, which require such loans to be qualified on the basis of the property’s collateral value, net income and debt service ratio; however, there is no assurance that our underwriting policies will protect us from credit-related losses. At September 30, 2014, our largest commercial real estate lending relationship was $11.3 million of loans located in Lehigh County, Pennsylvania and secured by real estate. This loan was performing in accordance with its repayment terms. See “Item 1. Business—Lending Activities—Commercial Real Estate Loans.” Our Increased Auto Lending, As a Result of the Franklin Security Bank Acquisition, Increases Our Exposure to Increased Lending Risks. At September 30, 2014, $100.6 million, or 9.4% of our total loan portfolio consisted of auto loans. These loans were primarily indirect auto loans. Indirect auto loans are inherently risky as they are often secured by assets that depreciate rapidly. In some cases, repossessed collateral for a defaulted automobile loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment for the outstanding loan and the remaining deficiency may not warrant further substantial collection efforts against the borrower. Automobile loan collections depend on the borrower’s continuing financial stability, and therefore, are more likely to be adversely affected by job loss, divorce, illness, or personal bankruptcy. Strong Competition Within Our Market Areas May Limit Our Growth and Profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market areas, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Some of our competitors have greater name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business, and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do, which could affect our ability to grow and remain profitable on a long-term basis. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market areas. For additional information see “Item 1. Business—Competition.” Economic Conditions May Adversely Affect Our Liquidity and Financial Condition. Recent significant declines in the values of mortgage-backed securities and derivative securities issued by financial institutions, government sponsored entities, and major commercial and investment banks have led to decreased confidence in financial markets among borrowers, lenders, and depositors, as well as disruption and extreme volatility in the capital and credit markets and the failure of some entities in the financial sector. As a result, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased to provide funding to borrowers. Continued turbulence in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the willingness of certain counterparties and customers to do business with us. 28 Table of Contents We Operate in a Highly Regulated Environment and May Be Adversely Affected by Changes in Laws and Regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examination by the Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC and the Pennsylvania Department of Banking and Securities. Such regulators govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of a bank, the classification of assets by a bank, the imposition of higher capital requirements, and the adequacy of a bank’s allowance for credit losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, could have a material impact on us and our operations. Notably, the federal banking agencies have recently proposed regulations which, if finalized, would significantly increase regulatory capital requirements for insured depository institutions as well as applying such requirements to savings and loan holding companies. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with applicable federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and applicable regulations are subject to regular modification and change. There can be no assurance that proposed laws, rules and regulations, or any other laws, rules or regulations, will not be adopted in the future, which could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects. The Soundness of Other Financial Services Institutions May Adversely Affect Our Credit Risk. We rely on other financial services institutions through trading, clearing, counterparty, and other relationships. We maintain limits and monitor concentration levels of our counterparties as specified in our internal policies. Our reliance on other financial services institutions exposes us to credit risk in the event of default by these institutions or counterparties. These losses could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Any Future FDIC Insurance Premium Increases May Adversely Affect our Earnings. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels. Such increases and any future increases or required prepayments of FDIC insurance premiums may adversely impact our earnings. See “Supervision and Regulation—Deposit Insurance” for more information about FDIC insurance premiums. Risks Associated With System Failures, Interruptions, Or Breaches of Security Could Negatively Affect Our Earnings. Information technology systems are critical to our business. We use various technology systems to manage our customer relationships, general ledger, securities investments, deposits, and loans. We have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of system failures, interruptions, and security breaches (including privacy breaches), but such events may still occur or may not be adequately addressed if they do occur. In addition, any compromise of our systems could deter customers from using our products and services. Although we rely on security systems to provide security and authentication necessary to effect the secure transmission of data, these precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of security. In addition, we outsource a majority of our data processing to certain third-party providers. If these third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if we have difficulty communicating with them, our ability to adequately process and account for transactions could be affected, and our business operations could be adversely affected. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel. The occurrence of any system failures, interruption, or breach of security could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers and business thereby subjecting us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or could expose us to litigation and possible financial liability. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Recent Health Care Legislation Could Increase Our Expenses Or Require Us To Pass Further Costs On To Our Employees, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Operations, Financial Condition and Earnings. Legislation enacted in 2010 requires companies to provide expanded health care coverage to their employees, such as affordable coverage to part-time employees and coverage to dependent adult children of employees. Companies will also be required to enroll new employees automatically into their health plans. Compliance with these and other new requirements of the health care legislation has increased our employee benefits expense, and requires us to pass these costs on to our employees, which could result in a competitive disadvantage in hiring and retaining qualified employees. 29 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 30 Table of Contents 