Item 1A. Risk Factors Increases to the Allowance for Credit Losses May Cause Our Earnings to Decrease. Our customers may not repay their loans according to the original terms, and the collateral securing the payment of those loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. In addition, the estimates used to determine the fair value of such loans as of the acquisition date may be inconsistent with the actual performance of the acquired loans. Hence, we may experience significant credit losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for credit losses, we rely on loan quality reviews, past loss experience, and an evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to the allowance. Material additions to the allowance would materially decrease our net income. Our emphasis on the origination of commercial real estate and business loans is one of the more significant factors in evaluating our allowance for credit losses. As we continue to increase the amount of these loans, additional or increased provisions for credit losses may be necessary and as a result would decrease our earnings. Bank regulators periodically review our allowance for credit losses and may require us to increase our provision for credit losses or loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for credit losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and/or financial condition. Future Changes in Interest Rates Could Reduce Our Profits. Our ability to make a profit largely depends on our net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest income is the difference between: 1. the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities; and 2. the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. From September, 2007 through December, 2008, the Federal Reserve Board of Governors decreased its target for the federal funds rate from 5.25% to 0.25%. The federal funds rate remained at 0.25% through November, 2009 and is expected to remain at or around that level for an extended period of time. While these short term market interest rates (which we use as a guide to price our deposits) decreased, longer term market interest rates (which we 25 Table of Contents use as a guide to price our longer term loans) did not decrease to the same degree. As a result of this “steepening” of the market yield curve the Company’s net interest spread has increased from 2.28% for the quarter ended December 31, 2008 to 2.42% for the quarter ended September 30, 2009. If this steepening were to continue the initial increase in our interest rate spread would be reduced as our assets continue to re-price downward. In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities. A reduction in interest rates results in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities, as borrowers refinance their loans in order to reduce their borrowing costs. This creates reinvestment risk, which is the risk that we may not be able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities. Alternatively, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. Changes in interest rates also affect the current market value of our interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. At September 30, 2009, the fair value of our debt securities available for sale totaled $217.5 million. Unrealized net gains on these available for sale securities totaled approximately $6.4 million at September 30, 2009 and are reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale in future periods would have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity. We evaluate interest rate sensitivity by estimating the change in ESSA Bank & Trust’s net portfolio value over a range of interest rate scenarios. Net portfolio value is the discounted present value of expected cash flows from assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet contracts. At September 30, 2009, in the event of an immediate 200 basis point increase in interest rates, the Office of Thrift Supervision model projects that we would experience a $21.2 million, or 12.0%, decrease in net portfolio value. See “Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Management of Market Risk.” A Downturn in the Local Economy or a Decline in Real Estate Values Could Reduce Our Profits. Nearly all of our real estate loans are secured by real estate in Monroe and Northampton Counties, Pennsylvania. As a result of this concentration, a prolonged downturn in this market area could cause significant increases in nonperforming loans, which would reduce our profits. Additionally, a decrease in asset quality could require additions to our allowance for loan losses through increased provisions for loan losses, which would hurt our profits. A decline in real estate values could cause some of our mortgage loans to become inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss. For a discussion of our market area, see “Item 1. Business—Market Area.” Recent Negative Developments in the Financial Industry and the Domestic and International Credit Markets may Adversely Affect our Operations and Results. Negative developments in the latter half of 2007, during 2008 and continuing through 2009 in the global credit and securitization markets have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general with the expectation of the general economic downturn continuing into 2010. Loan portfolio quality has deteriorated at many institutions. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. As a result, the potential exists for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments, may negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. In addition, these risks could affect the value of our loan portfolio as well as the value of our investment portfolio, which would also negatively affect our financial performance. Our Continued Emphasis On Commercial Real Estate Lending Increases Our Exposure To Increased Lending Risks. 26 Table of Contents Our business strategy centers on continuing our emphasis on commercial real estate lending. We have grown our loan portfolio in recent years with respect to this type of loan and intend to continue to emphasize this type of lending. At September 30, 2009, $68.0 million, or 9.2%, of our total loan portfolio consisted of commercial real estate loans. Loans secured by commercial real estate generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the commercial real estate loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the underlying property. Additionally, such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Accordingly, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. We seek to minimize these risks through our underwriting policies, which require such loans to be qualified on the basis of the property’s collateral value, net income and debt service ratio; however, there is no assurance that our underwriting policies will protect us from credit-related losses. At September 30, 2009, our largest commercial real estate lending relationship was $4.1 million of loans located in Monroe County, Pennsylvania and secured by real estate. See “Item 1. Business—Lending Activities—Commercial Real Estate Loans.” Strong Competition Within Our Market Areas May Limit Our Growth and Profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market areas, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Some of our competitors have greater name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business, and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do, which could affect our ability to grow and remain profitable on a long-term basis. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market areas. For additional information see “Item 1. Business—Competition.” Economic Conditions May Adversely Affect Our Liquidity and Financial Condition. Recent significant declines in the values of mortgage-backed securities and derivative securities issued by financial institutions, government sponsored entities, and major commercial and investment banks have led to decreased confidence in financial markets among borrowers, lenders, and depositors, as well as disruption and extreme volatility in the capital and credit markets and the failure of some entities in the financial sector. As a result, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased to provide funding to borrowers. Continued turbulence in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the willingness of certain counterparties and customers to do business with us. We Operate in a Highly Regulated Environment and May Be Adversely Affected by Changes in Laws and Regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision (the “OTS”), the FDIC and the Pennsylvania Department of Banking. Such regulators govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of a bank, the classification of assets by a bank, the imposition of higher capital requirements, and the adequacy of a bank’s allowance for credit losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, could have a material impact on us and our operations. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with applicable federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and applicable regulations are subject to regular modification and change. There can be no assurance that proposed laws, rules and regulations, or any other laws, rules or regulations, will not be adopted in the future, which could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects. The Soundness of Other Financial Services Institutions May Adversely Affect Our Credit Risk. 27 Table of Contents We rely on other financial services institutions through trading, clearing, counterparty, and other relationships. We maintain limits and monitor concentration levels of our counterparties as specified in our internal policies. Our reliance on other financial services institutions exposes us to credit risk in the event of default by these institutions or counterparties. These losses could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Any Future FDIC Insurance Premiums or Required Prepayments of Assessments Will Adversely Impact Our Earnings. On May 22, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule levying a five basis point special assessment on each insured depository institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. The special assessment was payable on September 30, 2009. We recorded an expense of $400,000 during the quarter ended June 30, 2009 to reflect the special assessment. In lieu of another special assessment, on September 27, 2009, the FDIC board proposed a requirement that insured institutions prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009, as well as for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012, and, in addition, increased assessment rates on deposit insurance premiums by three basis points effective January 1, 2011. FDIC guidance provides that as of December 31, 2009, and each quarter thereafter, each insured institution will be required to record an expense for its regular quarterly assessment and an offsetting credit to the prepaid assessment until the asset is exhausted. Once the asset is exhausted, the institution would resume paying and accounting for quarterly deposit insurance assessments as it currently does. Any further special assessments that the FDIC levies will be recorded as an expense during the appropriate period. The prepayment of the future premiums, coupled with any future assessments, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and/or financial condition. A Substantial Decline in the Value of Our FHLBank Pittsburgh Common Stock May Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition. We own common stock of the FHLBank Pittsburgh (“FHLB”) in order to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank system, which enables us to borrow funds under the Federal Home Loan Bank advance program. The carrying value and fair market value of our FHLB common stock was $20.7 million as of September 30, 2009. Recent published reports indicate that certain member banks of the Federal Home Loan Bank system may be subject to asset quality risks that could result in materially lower regulatory capital levels. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capitalization of a Federal Home Loan Bank, including the FHLB, could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. Consequently, given that there is no market for our FHLB common stock, we believe that there is a risk that our investment could be deemed other than temporarily impaired at some time in the future. If this occurs, it may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If the capitalization of the FHLB is substantially diminished and if it reduces or suspends its dividend, our liquidity may be adversely impaired if we are not able to obtain an alternative source of funding. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 28 Table of Contents 