Item 1A. Risk Factors Future Changes in Interest Rates Could Reduce Our Profits. Our ability to make a profit largely depends on our net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest income is the difference between: 1. the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities; and 2. the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. From September, 2007 through October, 2008, the Federal Reserve Board of Governors decreased its target for the federal funds rate from 5.25% to 1.00%. While these short term market interest rates (which we use as a guide to price our deposits) decreased, longer term market interest rates (which we use as a guide to price our longer term loans) did not decrease to the same degree. As a result of this “steepening” of the market yield curve the Company’s net interest spread has increased from 1.93% for the quarter ended December 31, 2007 to 2.23% for the quarter ended September 30, 2008. If this steepening were to continue the initial increase in our interest rate spread would be reduced as our assets begin to re-price downward. In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities. A reduction in interest rates results in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities, as borrowers refinance their loans in order to reduce their borrowing costs. This creates reinvestment risk, which is the risk that we may not be able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities. Alternatively, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. Changes in interest rates also affect the current market value of our interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. At September 30, 2008, the fair value of our debt securities available for sale totaled $204.0 million. Unrealized net losses on these available for sale securities totaled approximately $275,000 at September 30, 2008 and are reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale in future periods would have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity. We evaluate interest rate sensitivity by estimating the change in ESSA Bank & Trust’s net portfolio value over a range of interest rate scenarios. Net portfolio value is the discounted present value of expected cash flows from assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet contracts. At September 30, 2008, in the event of an immediate 200 basis point increase in interest rates, the Office of Thrift Supervision model projects that we would experience a $29.8 million, or 20.0%, decrease in net portfolio value. See “Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Management of Market Risk.” 25 Table of Contents A Downturn in the Local Economy or a Decline in Real Estate Values Could Reduce Our Profits. Nearly all of our real estate loans are secured by real estate in Monroe and Northampton Counties, Pennsylvania. As a result of this concentration, a downturn in this market area could cause significant increases in nonperforming loans, which would reduce our profits. Additionally, a decrease in asset quality could require additions to our allowance for loan losses through increased provisions for loan losses, which would hurt our profits. In recent years, there have been significant increases in real estate values in our market area. As a result of rising home prices, our loans have been well collateralized. A decline in real estate values could cause some of our mortgage loans to become inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss. For a discussion of our market area, see “Item 1. Business—Market Area.” Recent Negative Developments in the Financial Industry and the Domestic and International Credit Markets may Adversely Affect our Operations and Results. Negative developments in the latter half of 2007 and during 2008 in the global credit and securitization markets have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general with the expectation of the general economic downturn continuing into 2009. Loan portfolio quality has deteriorated at many institutions. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. As a result, the potential exists for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments, may negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. In addition, these risks could affect the value of our loan portfolio as well as the value of our investment portfolio, which would also negatively affect our financial performance. Our Continued Emphasis On Commercial Real Estate Lending Could Expose Us To Increased Lending Risks. Our business strategy centers on continuing our emphasis on commercial real estate lending. We have grown our loan portfolio in recent years with respect to this type of loan and intend to continue to emphasize this type of lending. At September 30, 2008, $69.5 million, or 9.8%, of our total loan portfolio consisted of commercial real estate loans. Loans secured by commercial real estate generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the commercial real estate loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the underlying property. Additionally, such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Accordingly, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. We seek to minimize these risks through our underwriting policies, which require such loans to be qualified on the basis of the property’s collateral value, net income and debt service ratio; however, there is no assurance that our underwriting policies will protect us from credit-related losses. At September 30, 2008, our largest commercial real estate lending relationship was $4.8 million of loans located in Monroe County, Pennsylvania and secured by real estate. See “Item 1. Business—Lending Activities—Commercial Real Estate Loans.” Strong Competition Within Our Market Areas May Limit Our Growth and Profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market areas, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Some of our competitors have greater name recognition and market 26 Table of Contents presence that benefit them in attracting business, and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do, which could affect our ability to grow and remain profitable on a long-term basis. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market areas. For additional information see “Item 1. Business—Competition.” If Our Allowance for Loan Losses is Not Sufficient to Cover Actual Loan Losses, Our Earnings Will Decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. While our allowance for loan losses was 0.69% of total loans at September 30, 2008, material additions to our allowance could materially decrease our net income. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 