RISK FACTORS Our cash flow depends substantially on the ability of our subsidiaries, primarily OPCO, to make distributions to us. The source of our cash flow consists nearly exclusively of cash distributions from our subsidiaries, primarily OPCO, which also makes distributions to Teekay Corporation, its other partner. The amount of cash OPCO and other subsidiaries can distribute to us principally depends upon the amount of cash they generate from their operations, which may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: • the rates they obtain from their charters and contracts of affreightment (whereby OPCO or other subsidiaries carry an agreed quantity of cargo for a customer over a specified trade route within a given period of time); • the price and level of production of, and demand for, crude oil, particularly the level of production at the offshore oil fields OPCO or other subsidiaries service under contracts of affreightment; • the level of their operating costs, such as the cost of crews and insurance; • the number of off-hire days for their vessels and the timing of, and number of days required for, drydocking of vessels; • the rates, if any, at which OPCO or other subsidiaries may be able to redeploy shuttle tankers in the spot market as conventional oil tankers during any periods of reduced or terminated oil production at fields serviced by contracts of affreightment; • delays in the delivery of any newbuildings or vessels undergoing conversion and the beginning of payments under charters relating to those vessels; • prevailing global and regional economic and political conditions; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; and • the effect of governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards on the conduct of business. The actual amount of cash OPCO or other subsidiaries have available for distribution also depends on other factors such as: • the level of their capital expenditures, including for maintaining vessels or converting existing vessels for other uses and complying with regulations; • their debt service requirements and restrictions on distributions contained in their debt instruments; • fluctuations in their working capital needs; • their ability to make working capital borrowings; and • the amount of any cash reserves, including reserves for future maintenance capital expenditures, working capital and other matters, established by the Board of Directors of our general partner. OPCO’s limited partnership agreement provides that it distributes its available cash (as defined in the partnership agreement) to its partners on a quarterly basis. OPCO’s available cash includes cash on hand less any reserves that may be appropriate for operating its business. The amount of OPCO’s quarterly distributions, including the amount of cash reserves not distributed, is determined by the Board of Directors of our general partner on our behalf. The amount of cash OPCO or other subsidiaries generate from operations may differ materially from their profit or loss for the period, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result of this and the other factors mentioned above, OPCO and other subsidiaries may make cash distributions during periods when they record losses and may not make cash distributions during periods when they record net income. We may not have sufficient cash from operations to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution on our common units or to maintain or increase distributions. The source of our earnings and cash flow consists nearly exclusively of cash distributions from our subsidiaries, primarily OPCO. Therefore, the amount of distributions we are able to make to our unitholders will fluctuate based on the level of distributions made to us by our subsidiaries. Neither OPCO nor any other subsidiaries may make quarterly distributions at a level that will permit us to make distributions to our common unitholders at the minimum quarterly distribution level set forth in our partnership agreement or to maintain or increase our quarterly distributions in the future. In addition, while we would expect to increase or decrease distributions to our unitholders if our subsidiaries increase or decrease distributions to us, the timing and amount of any such increased or decreased distributions will not necessarily be comparable to the timing and amount of the increase or decrease in distributions made by our subsidiaries to us. 8 Our ability to distribute to our unitholders any cash we may receive from our subsidiaries is or may be limited by a number of factors, including, among others: • interest expense and principal payments on any indebtedness we incur; • restrictions on distributions contained in any of our current or future debt agreements; • fees and expenses of us, our general partner, its affiliates or third parties we are required to reimburse or pay, including expenses we incur as a result of being a public company; and • reserves our general partner believes are prudent for us to maintain for the proper conduct of our business or to provide for future distributions. Many of these factors reduce the amount of cash we may otherwise have available for distribution. We may not be able to pay distributions, and any distributions we do make may not be at or above our minimum quarterly distribution. The actual amount of cash that is available for distribution to our unitholders depends on several factors, many of which are beyond the control of us or our general partner. Our ability to grow may be adversely affected by our cash distribution policy. OPCO’s ability to meet its financial needs and grow may be adversely affected by its cash distribution policy. Our cash distribution policy, which is consistent with our partnership agreement, requires us to distribute all of our available cash (as defined in our partnership agreement) each quarter. Accordingly, our growth may not be as fast as businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. OPCO’s cash distribution policy requires it to distribute all of its available cash each quarter. In determining the amount of cash available for distribution by OPCO, the Board of Directors of our general partner, in making the determination on our behalf, approves the amount of cash reserves to set aside by OPCO, including reserves for future maintenance capital expenditures, working capital and other matters. OPCO also relies upon external financing sources, including commercial borrowings, to fund its capital expenditures. Accordingly, to the extent OPCO does not have sufficient cash reserves or is unable to obtain financing, its cash distribution policy may significantly impair its ability to meet its financial needs or to grow. We must make substantial capital expenditures to maintain the operating capacity of our fleet, which reduces cash available for distribution. In addition, each quarter our general partner is required to deduct estimated maintenance capital expenditures from operating surplus, which may result in less cash available to unitholders than if actual maintenance capital expenditures were deducted. We must make substantial capital expenditures to maintain, over the long term, the operating capacity of our fleet. We intend to continue to expand our fleet, which would increase the level of our maintenance capital expenditures. Maintenance capital expenditures include capital expenditures associated with drydocking a vessel, modifying an existing vessel or acquiring a new vessel to the extent these expenditures are incurred to maintain the operating capacity of our fleet. These expenditures could increase as a result of changes in: • the cost of labor and materials; • customer requirements; • increases in fleet size or the cost of replacement vessels; • governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards relating to safety, security or the environment; and • competitive standards. In addition, actual maintenance capital expenditures vary significantly from quarter to quarter based on the number of vessels drydocked during that quarter. Significant maintenance capital expenditures reduce the amount of cash that OPCO has available to distribute to us and that we have available for distribution to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement requires our general partner to deduct our estimated, rather than actual, maintenance capital expenditures from operating surplus each quarter in an effort to reduce fluctuations in operating surplus (as defined in our partnership agreement). The amount of estimated maintenance capital expenditures deducted from operating surplus is subject to review and change by the conflicts committee of our general partner at least once a year. In years when estimated maintenance capital expenditures are higher than actual maintenance capital expenditures, the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders is lower than if actual maintenance capital expenditures were deducted from operating surplus. If our general partner underestimates the appropriate level of estimated maintenance capital expenditures, we may have less cash available for distribution in future periods when actual capital expenditures begin to exceed our previous estimates. We require substantial capital expenditures to expand the size of our fleet. We generally are required to make significant installment payments for acquisitions of newbuilding vessels or for the conversion of existing vessels prior to their delivery and generation of revenue. Depending on whether we finance our expenditures through cash from operations or by issuing debt or equity securities, our ability to make cash distributions may be diminished or our financial leverage may increase or our unitholders may be diluted. We make substantial capital expenditures to increase the size of our fleet. In 2007, we purchased from Teekay Corporation its interests in two shuttle tankers and one FSO unit. In 2008, we purchased a shuttle tanker from a third party and we purchased from Teekay Corporation two conventional tankers and Teekay Corporation is obligated to offer us its interests in additional vessels. In 2008, we also purchased from Teekay Corporation an additional 25% limited partner interest in OPCO. Please read 