Item 1A. Risk Factors Financial reform legislation recently enacted has, among other things, changed our holding company and bank regulators, created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, and will result in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations, as well as tightened capital standards. On July 21, 2010 the President signed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”). This new law has significantly changed the current bank regulatory structure and affected the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are expected to have a near term effect on us. For example, the Federal Reserve Board now supervises and regulates all savings and loan holding companies that were formerly regulated by the Office of Thrift Supervision, including ESSA Bancorp. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which is currently the primary federal regulator for state banks that are not members of the Federal Reserve System, has become the primary federal regulator for state savings association such as ESSA Bank & Trust. The Dodd-Frank Act created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks with $10 billion or less in assets such as ESSA Bank & Trust will continue to be examined for compliance with the consumer laws by their primary bank regulators. The Dodd-Frank Act also weakens the federal preemption rules that have been applicable for national banks and federal savings associations, and gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce federal consumer protection laws. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the implementation of regulations for bank and savings and loan holding companies which establish capital standards that are no less than those applicable to depository institutions themselves, which will exclude certain instruments that previously have been eligible for inclusion by bank holding companies as Tier 1 capital, such as trust preferred securities. Savings and loan holding companies such as ESSA Bancorp, Inc. have not previously been subject to regulatory capital requirements. 28 Table of Contents Capital distributions by ESSA Bank & Trust, including dividends paid to ESSA Bancorp, Inc., require notice to and nonobjection of the Federal Reserve Board as well as notice or application to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in some circumstances. In addition, certain regulatory policies of the Federal Reserve Board may also limit ESSA Bancorp’s ability to make capital distributions including paying dividends. The Dodd-Frank Act eliminated the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this significant change to existing law could have an adverse impact on our interest expense. The Dodd-Frank Act broadened the base for Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation deposit insurance assessments. Assessments are now be based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution, rather than deposits. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increased the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor, retroactive to January 1, 2008, and non-interest bearing transaction accounts have unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2013. The Dodd-Frank Act will require publicly traded companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments, and by authorizing the Securities and Exchange Commission to promulgate rules that would allow stockholders to nominate their own candidates using a company’s proxy materials. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded or not. It is difficult to predict at this time what specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act and certain yet-to-be written implementing rules and regulations will have on community banks. However, it is expected that at a minimum they will increase our operating and compliance costs and could increase our interest expense. Increases to the Allowance for Credit Losses May Cause Our Earnings to Decrease. Our customers may not repay their loans according to the original terms, and the collateral securing the payment of those loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. In addition, the estimates used to determine the fair value of such loans as of the acquisition date may be inconsistent with the actual performance of the acquired loans. Hence, we may experience significant credit losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for credit losses, we rely on loan quality reviews, past loss experience, and an evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to the allowance. Material additions to the allowance would materially decrease our net income. Our emphasis on the origination of commercial real estate and business loans is one of the more significant factors in evaluating our allowance for credit losses. As we continue to increase the amount of these loans, additional or increased provisions for credit losses may be necessary and as a result would decrease our earnings. Bank regulators periodically review our allowance for credit losses and may require us to increase our provision for credit losses or loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for credit losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and/or financial condition. Future Changes in Interest Rates Could Reduce Our Profits. Our ability to make a profit largely depends on our net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest income is the difference between: 1. the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities; and 29 Table of Contents 2. the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. From September, 2007 through December, 2008, the Federal Reserve Board of Governors decreased its target for the federal funds rate from 5.25% to 0.25%. The federal funds rate has remained at 0.25% since December 2008 and is expected to remain at or around that level for an extended period of time. While these short term market interest rates (which we use as a guide to price our deposits) decreased, longer term market interest rates (which we use as a guide to price our longer term loans) have also decreased but not to the same degree. With the decline in shorter term market interest rates the Company’s cost of funds declined. This decline in our cost of funds was initially beneficial to our net interest spread. However, as short term market rates have remained low and longer term interest rates have also declined, the Company’s net interest margin decreased from 2.93% for the year ended September 30, 2009 to 2.78% for the year ended September 30, 2011. If market rates remain at these historic lows, there could be further negative pressure exerted on our net interest margin. In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities. A reduction in interest rates results in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities, as borrowers refinance their loans in order to reduce their borrowing costs. This creates reinvestment risk, which is the risk that we may not be able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities. Alternatively, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. Changes in interest rates also affect the current market value of our interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. At September 30, 2011, the fair value of our debt securities available for sale totaled $245.4 million. Unrealized net gains on these available for sale securities totaled approximately $8.6 million at September 30, 2011 and are reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale in future periods would have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity. We evaluate interest rate sensitivity by estimating the change in ESSA Bank & Trust’s net portfolio value over a range of interest rate scenarios. Net portfolio value is the discounted present value of expected cash flows from assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet contracts. At June 30, 2011, in the event of an immediate 200 basis point increase in interest rates, the federal banking model projects that we would experience a $29.4 million, or 1.7%, decrease in net portfolio value. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Management of Market Risk.” Concentration of loans in our primary market area, which has experienced an economic downturn, may increase the risk of increased nonperforming assets. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in the Pennsylvania counties of Monroe and Northampton, as nearly all of our loans are to customers in these markets. Accordingly, the local economic conditions in this market area have a significant impact on the ability of borrowers to repay loans as well as our ability to originate new loans. As such, a continuation of the decline in real estate values in this market area would also lower the value of the collateral securing loans on properties in this market area. In addition, continued weakening in general economic conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control could negatively affect our financial results. Continued and sustained deterioration in the housing sector and related markets and prolonged elevated unemployment levels may adversely affect our business and financial results. During 2009 and 2010 and continuing in early 2011, general economic conditions continued to worsen nationally as well as in our market area. While we did not invest in sub-prime mortgages and related investments, our lending business is tied significantly to the housing market. Declines in home prices, and increases in foreclosures and unemployment levels, have adversely impacted the credit performance of real estate loans, resulting in the write-down of asset values. The continuing housing slump has resulted in reduced demand for the construction of new housing, further declines in home prices, and increased delinquencies on construction, residential and commercial mortgage loans. The ongoing concern about the economy in general has caused many lenders to reduce or cease providing funding to borrowers. These conditions may also cause a further reduction in 30 Table of Contents loan demand, and increases in our non-performing assets, net charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. A worsening of these negative economic conditions could adversely affect our prospects for growth, asset and goodwill valuations and could result in a decrease in our interest income and a material increase in our provision for loan losses. Recent Negative Developments in the Financial Industry and the Domestic and International Credit Markets may Adversely Affect our Operations and Results. Negative developments that began in the latter half of 2007 and continued through 2011 in the global credit and securitization markets resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general with the expectation of the general economic downturn would continue into 2011. Loan portfolio quality has deteriorated at many institutions. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. As a result, the potential exists for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments, may negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. In addition, these risks could affect the value of our loan portfolio as well as the value of our investment portfolio, which would also negatively affect our financial performance. Our Continued Emphasis On Commercial Real Estate Lending Increases Our Exposure To Increased Lending Risks. Our business strategy centers on continuing our emphasis on commercial real estate lending. We have grown our loan portfolio in recent years with respect to this type of loan and intend to continue to emphasize this type of lending. At September 30, 2011, $105.2 million, or 14.1%, of our total loan portfolio consisted of commercial real estate loans. Loans secured by commercial real estate generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the commercial real estate loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the underlying property. Additionally, such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Accordingly, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. We seek to minimize these risks through our underwriting policies, which require such loans to be qualified on the basis of the property’s collateral value, net income and debt service ratio; however, there is no assurance that our underwriting policies will protect us from credit-related losses. At September 30, 2011, our largest commercial real estate lending relationship was $7.5 million of loans located in Monroe County, Pennsylvania and secured by real estate. See “Item 1. Business—Lending Activities—Commercial Real Estate Loans.” Strong Competition Within Our Market Areas May Limit Our Growth and Profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market areas, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Some of our competitors have greater name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business, and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do, which could affect our ability to grow and remain profitable on a long-term basis. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market areas. For additional information see “Item 1. Business—Competition.” 31 Table of Contents Economic Conditions May Adversely Affect Our Liquidity and Financial Condition. Recent significant declines in the values of mortgage-backed securities and derivative securities issued by financial institutions, government sponsored entities, and major commercial and investment banks have led to decreased confidence in financial markets among borrowers, lenders, and depositors, as well as disruption and extreme volatility in the capital and credit markets and the failure of some entities in the financial sector. As a result, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased to provide funding to borrowers. Continued turbulence in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the willingness of certain counterparties and customers to do business with us. We Operate in a Highly Regulated Environment and May Be Adversely Affected by Changes in Laws and Regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examination by the Federal Reserve Board, as successor regulator to Office of Thrift Supervision, the FDIC and the Pennsylvania Department of Banking. Such regulators govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of a bank, the classification of assets by a bank, the imposition of higher capital requirements, and the adequacy of a bank’s allowance for credit losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, could have a material impact on us and our operations. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with applicable federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and applicable regulations are subject to regular modification and change. There can be no assurance that proposed laws, rules and regulations, or any other laws, rules or regulations, will not be adopted in the future, which could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects. The Soundness of Other Financial Services Institutions May Adversely Affect Our Credit Risk. We rely on other financial services institutions through trading, clearing, counterparty, and other relationships. We maintain limits and monitor concentration levels of our counterparties as specified in our internal policies. Our reliance on other financial services institutions exposes us to credit risk in the event of default by these institutions or counterparties. These losses could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Any Future FDIC Insurance Premium Increases May Adversely Affect our Earnings. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels. Such increases and any future increases or required prepayments of FDIC insurance premiums may adversely impact our earnings. See “Supervision and Regulation—Deposit Insurance” for more information about FDIC insurance premiums. Our Information Systems May Experience an Interruption or Security Breach. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. 32 Table of Contents A Substantial Decline in the Value of Our FHLB Common Stock May Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition. We own common stock of the FHLB in order to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank system, which enables us to borrow funds under the Federal Home Loan Bank advance program. The carrying value and fair value of our FHLB common stock was $16.9 million as of September 30, 2011. Recent published reports indicate that certain member banks of the Federal Home Loan Bank system may be subject to asset quality risks that could result in materially lower regulatory capital levels. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capitalization of a Federal Home Loan Bank, including the FHLB, could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. Consequently, given that there is no market for our FHLB common stock, we believe that there is a risk that our investment could be deemed other than temporarily impaired at some time in the future. If this occurs, it may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If the capitalization of the FHLB is substantially diminished and if it reduces or suspends its dividend, our liquidity may be adversely impaired if we are not able to obtain an alternative source of funding. Recent health care legislation could increase our expenses or require us to pass further costs on to our employees, which could adversely affect our operations, financial condition and earnings. Legislation enacted in 2010 requires companies to provide expanded health care coverage to their employees, such as affordable coverage to part-time employees and coverage to dependent adult children of employees. Companies will also be required to enroll new employees automatically into their health plans. Compliance with these and other new requirements of the health care legislation will increase our employee benefits expense, and may require us to pass these costs on to our employees, which could give us a competitive disadvantage in hiring and retaining qualified employees. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 