ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS Any investment in the Company’s common stock involves a high degree of risk. Potential investors should carefully consider the material risks described below and all of the information contained in this Form 10-K before deciding whether to purchase any of its securities. The Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by these risks if any of them actually occur. None of the Company’s securities are currently listed or quoted for trading on any national securities exchange or national quotation system. If and when the Company’s securities are traded, the trading price could decline due to any of these risks, and an investor may lose all or part of his investment. Some of these factors have affected Fuqi’s financial condition and operating results in the past or are currently affecting the Company. This filing also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The Company’s actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced described below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. RISKS RELATED TO THE COMPANY'S OPERATIONS Jewelry purchases are discretionary, may be particularly affected by adverse trends in the general economy, and a decline in either will make it more difficult to generate revenue. The success of the Company’s operations depends to a significant extent upon a number of factors relating to discretionary consumer spending in China. These factors include economic conditions and perceptions of such conditions by consumers, employment, the rate of change in employment, the level of consumers’ disposable income, business conditions, interest rates, consumer debt levels, availability of credit and levels of taxation for the economy as a whole and in regional and local markets in China where the Company manufactures and sells its products. There can be no assurance that consumer spending on jewelry will not be adversely affected by changes in general economic conditions in China and globally. Most of Fuqi’s sales are of products that include gold, platinum, precious metals and other commodities, and fluctuations in the availability and pricing of commodities would adversely impact its ability to obtain and produce products at favorable prices. The jewelry industry generally is affected by fluctuations in the price and supply of diamonds, gold, platinum and, to a lesser extent, other precious and semi-precious metals and stones. In the past, Fuqi has not hedged its requirement for gold, platinum or other raw materials through the use of options, forward contracts or outright commodity purchasing, but it intends to engage in such hedging in the future, depending on its available resources. A significant disruption in the Company’s supply of gold, platinum, and other commodities could decrease its production and shipping levels, materially increase its operating costs and materially adversely affect its profit margins. Shortages of gold, platinum, and other commodities or interruptions in transportation systems, labor strikes, work stoppages, war, acts of terrorism or other interruptions to or difficulties in the employment of labor or transportation in the markets in which the Company purchases its raw materials and may adversely affect its ability to maintain production of its products and sustain profitability. If the Company was to experience a significant or prolonged shortage of gold, platinum, and other commodities, the Company would be unable to meet its production schedules and to ship products to its customers in timely fashion, which would adversely affect its sales, margins and customer relations. Fuqi has only been engaged in the manufacture and wholesale distribution of jewelry products and has no experience or operating history with respect to its intended entry into the retail jewelry market. Fuqi’s attempt to enter the retail market may fail, divert management’s attention and adversely affect its operating results. Fuqi has derived nearly all of its net revenues from the production and wholesale distribution of its jewelry products. The Company intends to devote management time and resources to establishing retail stores throughout China. The Company has no experience or operating history in the retail market, and its attempt to enter the market could fail and use substantial resources. Because the retail industry is new to the Company, it may be unable to effectively assess or address the evolving risks and difficulties present in this market, which could threaten its capacity to continue overall operations successfully in the future. 8 Fuqi may need to raise additional funds in the future. These funds may not be available on acceptable terms or at all, and, without additional funds, Fuqi may not be able to maintain or expand its business. Fuqi expects to expend significant resources to commence its planned retail distribution of its manufactured jewelry in China. The Company will require substantial additional funds in order to finance its planned retail distribution, fund operating expenses, and to develop manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities. Fuqi also expects to require additional funds to shift the focus of its primary product from gold to platinum. Without raising additional funds, it may not be able to meet these goals. The Company may seek additional funding through public or private financing or through collaborative arrangements with strategic partners. You should also be aware that in the future: · Fuqi cannot be certain that additional capital will be available on favorable terms, if at all; · any available additional financing may not be adequate to meet the Company’s goals; and · any equity financing would result in dilution to shareholders. If the Company cannot raise additional funds when needed, or on acceptable terms, it may not be able to effectively execute its growth strategy (including entering the retail market), take advantage of future opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements. In addition, the Company may be required to scale back or discontinue its production and development program, or obtain funds through strategic alliances that may require it to relinquish certain rights. Fuqi’s ability to maintain or increase its revenue could be harmed if Fuqi is unable to strengthen and maintain a brand image. Fuqi believes that primary factors in determining customer buying decisions in China’s jewelry sector include customer price, confidence in the merchandise sold, and the level and quality of customer service. The ability to differentiate its products from competitors by Fuqi’s brand based marketing strategies is a factor in attracting consumers, and if its strategy and efforts to promote its brand, such as beauty contest sponsorship, fails to garner brand recognition, its ability to generate revenue may suffer. If Fuqi is unable to differentiate its products, its ability to sell its products wholesale and its planned sale of products retail will be adversely affected. If the Company fails to anticipate, identify or react appropriately or in a timely manner to customer buying decisions, the Company could experience reduced consumer acceptance of its products, a diminished brand image, higher markdowns, and costs to recast overstocked jewelry. These factors could result in lower selling prices and sales volumes for the Company’s products, which could adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. This risk is particularly acute because the Company relies on a limited demographic customer base for a large percentage of its sales. If the Company is not able to adapt to changing jewelry trends in China, its inventory may be overstocked and the Company may be forced to reduce the price of its overstocked jewelry or incur the cost to recast it into new jewelry. The Company depends on consumer fashions, preferences for jewelry and the demand for particular products in China. Jewelry design trends in China can change rapidly, as evidenced by the recent increase in the consumption of platinum jewelry in the Chinese market. The ability to predict accurately future changes in taste, respond to changes in consumer preferences, carry the inventory demanded by customers, deliver the appropriate quality, price products correctly and implement effective purchasing procedures, all have an important influence on determining sales performance and achieved gross margin. If the Company fails to anticipate, identify or react appropriately to changes in styles and trends, it could experience excess inventories, higher than normal markdowns or an inability to sell its products. If such a situation exists, the Company may need to incur additional costs to recast its products to fit the demand recovering only the raw material with all labor invested in the product lost. 9 The Company’s failure to manage growth effectively could have an adverse effect on its employee efficiency, product quality, working capital levels, and results of operations. The Company intends to conduct a growth strategy into retail distribution of its products that it hopes will result in rapid growth, which will place significant demands on its managerial, operational and financial resources. Any significant growth in the market for the Company’s current wholesale business and its planned retail distribution would require it to expand its employee base for managerial, operational, financial, and other purposes. During any growth, the Company may face problems related to its operational and financial systems and controls, including quality control and delivery and service capabilities. The Company would also need to continue to expand, train and manage its employee base. The Company currently has approximately 600 full-time employees, and, at that size, a rapid increase in the number of its employees would be difficult to manage. Continued future growth will impose significant added responsibilities upon the members of management to identify, recruit, maintain, integrate, and motivate new employees. If the Company is able to launch its retail business, some of these employees would need retail experience, which it currently have none. Aside from increased difficulties in the management of human resources, the Company may also encounter working capital issues, as it will need increased liquidity to finance the purchases of raw materials and supplies, development of new products, establishment of new retail stores, and the hiring of additional employees. The Company’s failure to manage growth effectively may lead to operational and financial inefficiencies that will have a negative effect on its profitability. The Company cannot assure you that it will be able to timely and effectively meet that demand and maintain the quality standards required by its existing and potential customers and licensees. Fuqi is dependent on certain key personnel and loss of these key personnel could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Fuqi’s success is, to a certain extent, attributable to its management, sales and marketing, and operational and technical expertise of certain key personnel. Each of Fuqi’s named executive officers, including its Chief Executive Officer Yu Kwai Chong, performs key functions in the operation of its business. The Company does not have employment agreements with such key personnel, and there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to retain these officers or that such personnel may not receive and/or accept competing offers of employment. The loss of a significant number of these employees could have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. Fuqi is controlled by one shareholder, whose interests may differ from those of other shareholders. As a result, Fuqi could be prevented from entering into potentially beneficial transactions if they conflict with its major shareholder’s interests. As of the close of the Share Exchange Transaction, Mr. Chong, Fuqi’s Chief Executive Officer and its largest shareholder, beneficially owns or controls approximately 91.2% of the Company’s outstanding shares. Mr. Chong was the former sole stockholders of Fuqi BVI. Mr. Chong possesses significant influence over the Company, giving him the ability, among other things, to elect a majority of the Board of Directors and to approve significant corporate transactions. Such stock ownership and control may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a future change in control, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of the Company. Without the consent of Mr. Chong, the Company could be prevented from entering into potentially beneficial transactions if they conflict with the Company’s major shareholder’s interests. The interests of this shareholder may differ from the interests of the Company’s other shareholders. RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA All of Fuqi’s assets are located in China and all of its revenues are derived from its operations in China, and changes in the political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a significant impact upon what business Fuqi may be able to conduct in the PRC and accordingly on the results of its operations and financial condition. 10 Fuqi’s business operations may be adversely affected by the current and future political environment in the PRC. The PRC has operated as a socialist state since the mid-1900s and is controlled by the Communist Party of China. The Chinese government exerts substantial influence and control over the manner in which Fuqi must conduct its business activities. The PRC has only permitted provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activities since 1988. The government of the PRC has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy, including the jewelry industry, through regulation and state ownership. Fuqi’s ability to operate in China may be adversely affected by changes in Chinese laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, raw materials, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. Under the current government leadership, the government of the PRC has been pursuing economic reform policies that encourage private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. There is no assurance, however, that the government of the PRC will continue to pursue these policies, or that it will not significantly alter these policies from time to time without notice. Fuqi’s operations are subject to PRC laws and regulations that are sometimes vague and uncertain. Any changes in such PRC laws and regulations, or the interpretations thereof, may have a material and adverse effect on Fuqi’s business. The PRC's legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike the common law system prevalent in the United States, decided legal cases have little value as precedents in China. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including but not limited to the laws and regulations governing the Company’s business, or the enforcement and performance of the Company’s arrangements with customers in the event of the imposition of statutory liens, death, bankruptcy and criminal proceedings. The Chinese government has been developing a comprehensive system of commercial laws, and considerable progress has been made in introducing laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published cases and judicial interpretation and their lack of force as precedents, interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve significant uncertainties. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. The Company is considered a foreign person or foreign funded enterprise under PRC laws, and as a result, the Company is required to comply with PRC laws and regulations. The Company cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations may have on its businesses. If the relevant authorities find the Company in violation of PRC laws or regulations, they would have broad discretion in dealing with such a violation, including, without limitation: · levying fines; · revoking the Company’s business, other licenses or authorities; · requiring that the Company restructure its ownership or operations; and · requiring that the Company discontinue some or all of its business. The scope of the Company’s business license in China is limited, and the Company may not expand or continue its business without government approval and renewal, respectively. Fuqi is a wholly-owned foreign enterprise, commonly known as a WOFE. A WOFE can only conduct business within its approved business scope, which ultimately appears on the business license. Fuqi’s license permits it to design, manufacture, sell and market jewelry products to department stores throughout the PRC. Any amendment to the scope of the Company’s business requires further application and government approval. In order for Fuqi to expand its business beyond the scope of its license, Fuqi will be required to enter into a negotiation with the authorities for the approval to expand the scope of its business. The Company cannot assure you that it will be able to obtain the necessary government approval for any change or expansion of its business. Inflation in China could negatively affect the Company’s profitability and growth. While the Chinese economy has experienced rapid growth, such growth has been uneven among various sectors of the economy and in different geographical areas of the country. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the money supply and rising inflation. During the past decade, the rate of inflation in China has been as high as approximately 20% and China has experienced deflation as low as minus 2%. If prices for the Company’s products rise at a rate that is insufficient to compensate for the rise in the costs of supplies such as raw materials, it may have an adverse effect on the Company’s profitability. In order to control inflation in the past, the PRC government has imposed controls on bank credits, limits on loans for fixed assets and restrictions on state bank lending. The implementation of such policies may impede economic growth. In October 2004, the People's Bank of China, the PRC's central bank, raised interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade and indicated in a statement that the measure was prompted by inflationary concerns in the Chinese economy. In April 2006, the People’s Bank of China raised the interest rate again. Repeated rises in interest rates by the central bank would likely slow economic activity in China which could, in turn, materially increase the Company’s costs and also reduce demand for its products. 11 Recent PRC regulations relating to acquisitions of PRC companies by foreign entities may create regulatory uncertainties that could restrict or limit the Company’s ability to operate, including its ability to pay dividends. The PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or “SAFE,” issued a public notice in January 2005 concerning foreign exchange regulations on mergers and acquisitions in China. The public notice states that if an offshore company controlled by PRC residents intends to acquire a PRC company, such acquisition will be subject to strict examination by the relevant foreign exchange authorities. The public notice also states that the approval of the relevant foreign exchange authorities is required for any sale or transfer by the PRC residents of a PRC company's assets or equity interests to foreign entities for equity interests or assets of the foreign entities. In April 2005, SAFE issued another public notice further explaining the January notice. In accordance with the April notice, if an acquisition of a PRC company by an offshore company controlled by PRC residents has been confirmed by a Foreign Investment Enterprise Certificate prior to the promulgation of the January notice, the PRC residents must each submit a registration form to the local SAFE branch with respect to their respective ownership interests in the offshore company, and must also file an amendment to such registration if the offshore company experiences material events, such as changes in the share capital, share transfer, mergers and acquisitions, spin-off transaction or use of assets in China to guarantee offshore obligations. The April notice also provides that failure to comply with the registration procedures set forth therein may result in restrictions on any of the Company’s PRC resident shareholders and Fuqi BVI and Fuqi China. Pending the promulgation of detailed implementation rules, the relevant government authorities are reluctant to commence processing any registration or application for approval required under the SAFE notices. In addition, on August 8, 2006, the Ministry of Commerce (“MOFCOM”), joined by the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council, State Administration of Taxation, State Administration for Industry and Commerce, China Securities Regulatory Commission and SAFE, amended and released the Provisions for Foreign Investors to Merge and Acquire Domestic Enterprises, new foreign-investment rules which took effect September 8, 2006, superseding much, but not all, of the guidance in the prior SAFE circulars. These new rules significantly revise China’s regulatory framework governing onshore-offshore restructurings and how foreign investors can acquire domestic enterprises. These new rules signify greater PRC government attention to cross-border merger, acquisition and other investment activities, by confirming MOFCOM as a key regulator for issues related to mergers and acquisitions in China and requiring MOFCOM approval of a broad range of merger, acquisition and investment transactions. Further, the new rules establish reporting requirements for acquisition of control by foreigners of companies in key industries, and reinforce the ability of the Chinese government to monitor and prohibit foreign control transactions in key industries. These new rules may significantly affect the means by which offshore-onshore restructurings are undertaken in China in connection with offshore private equity and venture capital financings, mergers and acquisitions. It is expected that such transactional activity in China in the near future will require significant case-by-case guidance from MOFCOM and other government authorities as appropriate. It is anticipated that application of the new rules will be subject to significant administrative interpretation, and the Company will need to closely monitor how MOFCOM and other ministries apply the rules to ensure its domestic and offshore activities continue to comply with PRC law. Given the uncertainties regarding interpretation and application of the new rules, the Company may need to expend significant time and resources to maintain compliance. 12 The Company’s business operations or future strategy could be adversely affected by the interpretations and implementation of the SAFE notices and the new rules. For example, the Company may be subject to more stringent review and approval process with respect to its foreign exchange activities. Failure to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject the Company to penalties and other adverse consequences. Upon completion of the Share Exchange Transaction, the Company became subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with Fuqi, are not subject to these prohibitions. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices may occur from time-to-time in the PRC. The Company can make no assurance, however, that its employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which the Company might be held responsible. If the Company’s employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, the Company could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. We had enjoy certain preferential tax concessions and loss of these preferential tax concessions may cause our tax liabilities to increase and our profitability to decline. The Company’s subsidiary, Fuqi China, enjoyed a reduced enterprise income tax rate of 15%, which is granted to all enterprises operating in Shenzhen Special Economic Zone, and prior to 2006, the Company was under the preferential income tax rate of 7.5% in 2005 and 2004 due to its status of being a new business. That status expired effective January 1, 2006. The expiration of the preferential tax treatment will increase the Company’s tax liabilities and reduce its profitability. Additionally, the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law (the “EIT Law”) was enacted on March 16, 2007. Under the EIT Law, effective January 1, 2008, China will adopt a uniform tax rate of 25.0% for all enterprises (including foreign-invested enterprises) and cancel several tax incentives enjoyed by foreign-invested enterprises. Since the PRC government has not announced implementation measures for the transitional policy with regards to such preferential tax rates, the Company cannot reasonably estimate the financial impact of the new tax law to it at this time. Further, any future increase in the enterprise income tax rate applicable to the Company or other adverse tax treatments, could increase the Company’s tax liabilities and reduce our net income. Any recurrence of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, the Avian Flu, or another widespread public health problem, in the PRC could adversely affect the Company’s operations. A renewed outbreak of SARS, the Avian Flu or another widespread public health problem in China, where all of the Company’s manufacturing facilities are located and where all of its sales occur, could have a negative effect on its operations. The Company’s business is dependent upon its ability to continue to manufacture its products. Such an outbreak could have an impact on the Company’s operations as a result of: · quarantines or closures of some of its manufacturing facilities, which would severely disrupt the Company’s operations, · the sickness or death of the Company’s key officers and employees, and · a general slowdown in the Chinese economy. Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could adversely affect the Company’s operations. Because the Company’s business is located in the PRC, it may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls, which the Company is required to do in order to comply with U.S. securities laws. PRC companies have historically not adopted a Western style of management and financial reporting concepts and practices, which includes strong corporate governance, internal controls and, computer, financial and other control systems. Most of the Company’s middle and top management staff are not educated and trained in the Western system. In addition, the Company may need to rely on a new and developing communication infrastructure to efficiently transfer its information from retail nodes to the head quarter. In addition, the Company may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to work in the PRC. As a result of these factors, the Company may experience difficulty in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet Western standards. Therefore, the Company may, in turn, experience difficulties in implementing and maintaining adequate internal controls as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. This may result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in the Company’s internal controls which could impact the reliability of its financial statements and prevent it from complying with SEC rules and regulations and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any such deficiencies, weaknesses or lack of compliance could have a materially adverse effect on the Company’s business. 13 You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based upon U.S. laws, including the federal securities laws or other foreign laws against the Company or its management. All of the Company’s current operations, including the manufacturing and distribution of jewelry, are conducted in China. Moreover, most of the Company’s directors and officers are nationals and residents of China. All or substantially all of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States and in the PRC. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon these persons. In addition, uncertainty exists as to whether the courts of China would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against the Company or such officers and/or directors predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof, or be competent to hear original actions brought in China against the Company or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof. RISKS RELATED TO THE COMPANY’S CAPITAL STRUCTURE There is no current trading market for the Company’s common stock, and there is no assurance of an established public trading market, which would adversely affect the ability of its investors to sell their securities in the public market. The Company’s common stock is not currently listed or quoted for trading on any national securities exchange or national quotation system. In the future, the Company intends to apply for the listing of its common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market, or NASDAQ. There is no guarantee that securities will be granted approval for listing on the NASDAQ. If the Company fails to obtain a listing on the NASDAQ, it may seek quotation on the OTC Bulletin Board. The NASD has enacted changes that limit quotations on the OTC Bulletin Board to securities of issuers that are current in their reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The effect on the OTC Bulletin Board of these rule changes and other proposed changes cannot be determined at this time. The OTC Bulletin Board is an inter-dealer, over-the-counter market that provides significantly less liquidity than the NASDAQ or American Stock Exchange. Quotes for stocks included on the OTC Bulletin Board are not listed in the financial sections of newspapers as are those for the NASDAQ or American Stock Exchange. Therefore, prices for securities traded solely on the OTC Bulletin Board may be difficult to obtain and holders of common stock may be unable to resell their securities at or near their original offering price or at any price. The Company may not be able to achieve the benefits expected to result from the Share Exchange Transaction, and, instead, its management’s diverted attention could materially and adversely affect its daily operations, its stock price and operating results. On November 20, 2006, the Company entered into the Share Exchange Agreement with the sole shareholder of Fuqi BVI pursuant to which the Company agreed to acquire all of the issued and outstanding share capital of Fuqi BVI in exchange for newly issued shares of the Company’s common stock. On November 22, 2006, the Share Exchange closed, and Fuqi BVI became the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary and the Company’s sole business operation became that of Fuqi BVI and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Fuqi China. Also, the management and directors of Fuqi BVI became the management and directors of the Company upon the closing of the Share Exchange. In addition, the Company changed its corporate name from “VT Marketing Services, Inc.” to “Fuqi International, Inc.” and reincorporated from the State of Nevada to the State of Delaware. 14 The Share Exchange was effected for various reasons, including: · access to the capital markets of the United States; · the increased market liquidity expected to result from exchanging stock in a private company for securities of a public company that may eventually be traded; · the ability to use registered securities to make acquisition of assets or businesses; · increased visibility in the financial community; · enhanced access to the capital markets; · improved transparency of operations; and · perceived credibility and enhanced corporate image of being a publicly traded company. There can be no assurance that any of the anticipated benefits of the Share Exchange will be realized in respect to the Company’s new business operations. In addition, the attention and effort devoted to achieving the benefits of the Share Exchange and attending to the obligations of being a public company, such as reporting requirements and securities regulations, could significantly divert management’s attention from other important issues, which could materially and adversely affect the Company’s operating results or stock price in the future. If the Company fails to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, the price of its common stock may be adversely affected. The Company’s internal control over financial reporting may have weaknesses and conditions that need to be addressed, the disclosure of which may have an adverse impact on the price of the Company’s common stock. The Company is required to establish and maintain appropriate internal controls over financial reporting. Failure to establish those controls, or any failure of those controls once established, could adversely impact Fuqi’s public disclosures regarding the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. The Company’s failure of these controls could also prevent it from maintaining accurate accounting records and discovering accounting errors and financial frauds. In addition, management’s assessment of internal controls over financial reporting may identify weaknesses and conditions that need to be addressed in the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting or other matters that may raise concerns for investors. Any actual or perceived weaknesses and conditions that need to be addressed in Fuqi’s internal control over financial reporting, disclosure of management’s assessment of the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting or disclosure of its public accounting firm’s attestation to or report on management’s assessment of its internal controls over financial reporting may have an adverse impact on the price of its common stock. Standards for compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 are uncertain, and if the Company fails to comply in a timely manner, its business could be harmed and its stock price could decline. Rules adopted by the SEC pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 require annual assessment of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, and attestation of this assessment by the Company’s independent registered public accountants. The SEC extended the compliance dates for non-accelerated filers, as defined by the SEC. Accordingly, the Company believes that the annual assessment of its internal controls requirement will first apply to its annual report for the 2007 fiscal year and the attestation requirement of management’s assessment by the Company’s independent registered public accountants will first apply to its annual report for the 2008 fiscal year. The standards that must be met for management to assess the internal control over financial reporting as effective are new and complex, and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards. The Company may encounter problems or delays in completing activities necessary to make an assessment of its internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the attestation process by the Company’s independent registered public accountants is new and it may encounter problems or delays in completing the implementation of any requested improvements and receiving an attestation of the Company’s assessment by its independent registered public accountants. If the Company cannot assess its internal control over financial reporting as effective, or its independent registered public accountants are unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on such assessment, investor confidence and share value may be negatively impacted. 15 The Company’s common stock may be considered a “penny stock,” and thereby be subject to additional sale and trading regulations that may make it more difficult to sell. The Company’s common stock, which is not currently listed or quoted for trading, may be considered to be a “penny stock” if it does not qualify for one of the exemptions from the definition of “penny stock” under Section 3a51-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) once, and if, it starts trading. The Company’s common stock may be a “penny stock” if it meets one or more of the following conditions (i) the stock trades at a price less than $5.00 per share; (ii) it is NOT traded on a “recognized” national exchange; (iii) it is NOT listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, or even if so, has a price less than $5.00 per share; or (iv) is issued by a company that has been in business less than three years with net tangible assets less than $5 million. The principal result or effect of being designated a “penny stock” is that securities broker-dealers participating in sales of the Company’s common stock will be subject to the “penny stock” regulations set forth in Rules 15-2 through 15g-9 promulgated under the Exchange Act. For example, Rule 15g-2 requires broker-dealers dealing in penny stocks to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks and to obtain a manually signed and dated written receipt of the document at least two business days before effecting any transaction in a penny stock for the investor's account. Moreover, Rule 15g-9 requires broker-dealers in penny stocks to approve the account of any investor for transactions in such stocks before selling any penny stock to that investor. This procedure requires the broker-dealer to (i) obtain from the investor information concerning his or her financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives; (ii) reasonably determine, based on that information, that transactions in penny stocks are suitable for the investor and that the investor has sufficient knowledge and experience as to be reasonably capable of evaluating the risks of penny stock transactions; (iii) provide the investor with a written statement setting forth the basis on which the broker-dealer made the determination in (ii) above; and (iv) receive a signed and dated copy of such statement from the investor, confirming that it accurately reflects the investor's financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives. Compliance with these requirements may make it more difficult and time consuming for holders of the Company’s common stock to resell their shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them in the market or otherwise. The ability of the Company’s Chinese operating subsidiary to pay dividends may be restricted due to foreign exchange control regulations of China. The ability of the Company’s Chinese operating subsidiary to pay dividends may be restricted due to the foreign exchange control policies and availability of cash balance of the Chinese operating subsidiary. Because substantially all of the Company’s operations are conducted in China and its revenues are generated in China, all of its revenue being earned and currency received are denominated in Renminbi (RMB). RMB is subject to the exchange control regulation in China, and, as a result, the Company may be unable to distribute any dividends outside of China due to PRC exchange control regulations that restrict its ability to convert RMB into US Dollars. Fuqi does not foresee paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future and, as a result, its investors sole source of gain, if any, will depend on capital appreciation, if any. Fuqi does not plan to declare or pay any cash dividends on its shares of common stock in the foreseeable future and the Company currently intend to retain any future earnings for funding growth. The Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary, Fuqi China, prior to merger with the Company, paid cash dividends of $2,739,726, $5,421,687 and $3,975,904 during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Each of these dividends was paid by the Company’s subsidiary to Mr. Chong, as its sole stockholder, which offset partially the amounts due to the Company’s subsidiary by Mr. Chong. Fuqi currently has no intention to declare dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, you should not rely on an investment in the Company’s securities if you require dividend income. Capital appreciation, if any, of the Company’s shares may be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. Moreover, you may not be able to resell your shares in Fuqi at or above the price you paid for them. ITEM 1B. UNSOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 16 ITEM 