Risk Factors Our cash flow depends substantially on the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us. The source of our cash flow includes cash distributions from our subsidiaries. The amount of cash our subsidiaries can distribute to us principally depends upon the amount of cash they generate from their operations, which may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: • the rates they obtain from their charters and contracts of affreightment (whereby our subsidiaries carry an agreed quantity of cargo for a customer over a specified trade route within a given period of time); • the price and level of production of, and demand for, crude oil, particularly the level of production at the offshore oil fields our subsidiaries service under contracts of affreightment; • the level of their operating costs, such as the cost of crews and insurance; • the number of off-hire days for their vessels and the timing of, and number of days required for, dry docking of vessels; • the rates, if any, at which our subsidiaries may be able to redeploy shuttle tankers in the spot market as conventional oil tankers during any periods of reduced or terminated oil production at fields serviced by contracts of affreightment; • delays in the delivery of any newbuildings or vessels undergoing conversion and the beginning of payments under charters relating to those vessels; • prevailing global and regional economic and political conditions; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; and • the effect of governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards on the conduct of business. The actual amount of cash our subsidiaries have available for distribution also depends on other factors such as: • the level of their capital expenditures, including for maintaining vessels or converting existing vessels for other uses and complying with regulations; • their debt service requirements and restrictions on distributions contained in their debt instruments; • fluctuations in their working capital needs; • their ability to make working capital borrowings; and • the amount of any cash reserves, including reserves for future maintenance capital expenditures, working capital and other matters, established by the Board of Directors of our General Partner at their discretion. The amount of cash our subsidiaries generate from operations may differ materially from their profit or loss for the period, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result of this and the other factors mentioned above, our subsidiaries may make cash distributions during periods when they record losses and may not make cash distributions during periods when they record net income. We may not have sufficient cash from operations to enable us to pay the current level of distribution on our common units or to maintain or increase distributions. The source of our earnings and cash flow includes cash distributions from our subsidiaries. Therefore, the amount of distributions we are able to make to our unitholders will fluctuate based on the level of distributions made to us by our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries may not make quarterly distributions at a level that will permit us to maintain or increase our quarterly distributions in the future. In addition, while we would expect to increase or decrease distributions to our unitholders if our subsidiaries increase or decrease distributions to us, the timing and amount of any such increased or decreased distributions will not necessarily be comparable to the timing and amount of the increase or decrease in distributions made by our subsidiaries to us. Our ability to distribute to our unitholders any cash we may receive from our subsidiaries is or may be limited by a number of factors, including, among others: • interest expense and principal payments on any indebtedness we incur; • restrictions on distributions contained in any of our current or future debt agreements; • fees and expenses of us, our general partner, its affiliates or third parties we are required to reimburse or pay, including expenses we incur as a result of being a public company; and • reserves our general partner believes are prudent for us to maintain for the proper conduct of our business or to provide for future distributions. Many of these factors reduce the amount of cash we may otherwise have available for distribution. We may not be able to pay distributions, and any distributions we do make may not be at or above our current level of quarterly distribution. The actual amount of cash that is available for distribution to our unitholders depends on several factors, many of which are beyond the control of us or our general partner. 9 Our ability to grow and to meet our financial needs may be adversely affected by our cash distribution policy. Our cash distribution policy, which is consistent with our partnership agreement, requires us to distribute all of our available cash (as defined in our partnership agreement) each quarter. Accordingly, our growth may not be as fast as businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. In determining the amount of cash available for distribution, the Board of Directors of our General Partner, in making the determination on our behalf, approves the amount of cash reserves to set aside, including reserves for future maintenance capital expenditures, working capital and other matters. We also rely upon external financing sources, including commercial borrowings, to fund our capital expenditures. Accordingly, to the extent we do not have sufficient cash reserves or are unable to obtain financing, our cash distribution policy may significantly impair our ability to meet our financial needs or to grow. We must make substantial capital expenditures to maintain the operating capacity of our fleet, which reduces cash available for distribution. In addition, each quarter our general partner is required to deduct estimated maintenance capital expenditures from operating surplus, which may result in less cash available to unitholders than if actual maintenance capital expenditures were deducted. We must make substantial capital expenditures to maintain, over the long term, the operating capacity of our fleet. We intend to continue to expand our fleet, which would increase the level of our maintenance capital expenditures. Maintenance capital expenditures include capital expenditures associated with dry docking a vessel, modifying an existing vessel or acquiring a new vessel to the extent these expenditures are incurred to maintain the operating capacity of our fleet. These expenditures could increase as a result of changes in: • the cost of labor and materials; • customer requirements; • increases in fleet size or the cost of replacement vessels; • governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards relating to safety, security or the environment; and • competitive standards. In addition, actual maintenance capital expenditures vary significantly from quarter to quarter based on the number of vessels dry docked during that quarter. Significant maintenance capital expenditures reduce the amount of cash that we have available for distribution to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement requires our general partner to deduct our estimated, rather than actual, maintenance capital expenditures from operating surplus each quarter in an effort to reduce fluctuations in operating surplus (as defined in our partnership agreement). The amount of estimated maintenance capital expenditures deducted from operating surplus is subject to review and change by the conflicts committee of our general partner at least once a year. In years when estimated maintenance capital expenditures are higher than actual maintenance capital expenditures, the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders is lower than if actual maintenance capital expenditures were deducted from operating surplus. If our general partner underestimates the appropriate level of estimated maintenance capital expenditures, we may have less cash available for distribution in future periods when actual capital expenditures begin to exceed our previous estimates. We require substantial capital expenditures to expand the size of our fleet. We generally are required to make significant installment payments for acquisitions of newbuilding vessels or for the conversion of existing vessels prior to their delivery and generation of revenue. Depending on whether we finance our expenditures through cash from operations or by issuing debt or equity securities, our ability to make cash distributions may be diminished or our financial leverage may increase or our unitholders may be diluted. Currently, the total delivered cost for a shuttle tanker is approximately $65 to $150 million, the cost of converting an existing tanker to an FSO unit is approximately $30 to $100 million and an FPSO unit is approximately $100 million to $2 billion, although actual costs vary significantly depending on the market price charged by shipyards, the size and specifications of the vessel, governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards. We and Teekay Corporation regularly evaluate and pursue opportunities to provide marine transportation services and offshore oil production and storage services for new or expanding offshore projects. Under an omnibus agreement that we have entered into in connection with our initial public offering, Teekay Corporation is required to offer to us, within 365 days of their deliveries, certain shuttle tankers, FSO units and FPSO units Teekay Corporation may acquire or has acquired, including certain vessels of Teekay Corporation’s subsidiary Teekay Petrojarl AS (or Teekay Petrojarl). Neither we nor Teekay Corporation may be awarded charters or contracts of affreightment relating to any of the projects we pursue or it pursues, and we may choose not to purchase the vessels Teekay Corporation is required to offer to us under the omnibus agreement. If we elect pursuant to the omnibus agreement to obtain Teekay Corporation’s interests in any projects Teekay Corporation may be awarded, or if we bid on and are awarded contracts relating to any offshore project, we will need to incur significant capital expenditures to buy Teekay Corporation’s interest in these offshore projects or to build the offshore units. We generally are required to make installment payments on newbuildings prior to their delivery. We typically must pay between 10% to 20% of the purchase price of a shuttle tanker upon signing the purchase contract, even though delivery of the completed vessel will not occur until much later (approximately three to four years from the time the order is placed). If we finance these acquisition costs by issuing debt or equity securities, we will increase the aggregate amount of interest or cash required to maintain our current level of quarterly distributions to unitholders prior to generating cash from the operation of the newbuilding. 10 To fund the remaining portion of existing or future capital expenditures, we will be required to use cash from operations or incur borrowings or raise capital through the sale of debt or additional equity securities. Use of cash from operations will reduce cash available for distribution to unitholders. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Our failure to obtain the funds for future capital expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and on our ability to make cash distributions. Even if we are successful in obtaining necessary funds, the terms of such financings could limit our ability to pay cash distributions to unitholders. In addition, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional equity securities may result in significant unitholder dilution and would increase the aggregate amount of cash required to maintain our current level of quarterly distributions to unitholders, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to make cash distributions. Our substantial debt levels may limit our flexibility in obtaining additional financing, pursuing other business opportunities and paying distributions to you. If we are awarded contracts for additional offshore projects or otherwise acquire additional vessels or businesses, our consolidated debt may significantly increase. As at December 31, 2011, our total debt was $2,029.1 million and we had the ability to borrow an additional $22.3 million under our revolving credit facilities, subject to limitations in the credit facilities. We may incur additional debt under these or future credit facilities. Our level of debt could have important consequences to us, including: • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; • we will need a substantial portion of our cash flow to make principal and interest payments on our debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders; • our debt level may make us more vulnerable than our competitors with less debt to competitive pressures or a downturn in our industry or the economy generally; and • our debt level may limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. Our ability to service our debt depends upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to effect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms, or at all. Financing agreements containing operating and financial restrictions may restrict our business and financing activities. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our financing arrangements and any future financing agreements for us could adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand or pursue our business activities. For example, the arrangements may restrict the ability of us and our subsidiaries to: • incur or guarantee indebtedness; • change ownership or structure, including mergers, consolidations, liquidations and dissolutions; • make dividends or distributions; • make certain negative pledges and grant certain liens; • sell, transfer, assign or convey assets; • make certain investments; and • enter into a new line of business. Five revolving credit facilities are guaranteed by us and certain of our subsidiaries for all outstanding amounts and contain covenants that require us to maintain the greater of a minimum liquidity (cash, cash equivalents and undrawn committed revolving credit lines with at least six months of maturity) of $75.0 million and 5.0% of the our consolidated debt. We also have a revolving credit facility of which Teekay Corporation guarantees $65.0 million of the final repayment. In addition to our covenants described above, Teekay Corporation is also required to maintain the greater of a minimum liquidity (cash, cash equivalents and undrawn committed revolving credit lines with at least six months to maturity) of at least $50.0 million and 5.0% of Teekay Corporation’s total consolidated debt which has recourse to Teekay Corporation. Our remaining two revolving credit facilities are guaranteed by Teekay Corporation and contain covenants that require Teekay Corporation to maintain the greater of a minimum liquidity (cash and cash equivalents) of at least $50.0 million and 5.0% of Teekay Corporation’s total consolidated debt which has recourse to Teekay Corporation. The revolving credit facilities are collateralized by first-priority mortgages granted on 34 of our vessels, together with other related security. The ability of Teekay Corporation or us to comply with covenants and restrictions contained in debt instruments may be affected by events beyond their or our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, compliance with these covenants may be impaired. If restrictions, covenants, ratios or tests in the financing agreements are breached, a significant portion of the obligations may become immediately due and payable, and the lenders’ commitment to make further loans may terminate. Neither Teekay Corporation nor we might have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. In addition, obligations under our credit facilities are secured by certain vessels, and if we are unable to repay debt under the credit facilities, the lenders could seek to foreclose on those assets. We have one facility that requires us to maintain vessel value to outstanding loan principal balance ratio of 105%. At December 31, 2011 we were in compliance with this requirement. 11 Restrictions in our debt agreements may prevent us or our subsidiaries from paying distributions. The payment of principal and interest on our debt reduces cash available for distribution to us and on our units. In addition, our and our subsidiaries’ financing agreements prohibit the payment of distributions upon the occurrence of the following events, among others: • failure to pay any principal, interest, fees, expenses or other amounts when due; • failure to notify the lenders of any material oil spill or discharge of hazardous material, or of any action or claim related thereto; • breach or lapse of any insurance with respect to vessels securing the facilities; • breach of certain financial covenants; • failure to observe any other agreement, security instrument, obligation or covenant beyond specified cure periods in certain cases; • default under other indebtedness; • bankruptcy or insolvency events; • failure of any representation or warranty to be materially correct; • a change of control, as defined in the applicable agreement; and • a material adverse effect, as defined in the applicable agreement. We derive a substantial majority of our revenues from a limited number of customers, and the loss of any such customers could result in a significant loss of revenues and cash flow. We have derived, and we believe we will continue to derive, a substantial majority of revenues and cash flow from a limited number of customers. Petrobras Transporte S.A., Statoil ASA, Teekay Corporation, and Talisman Energy Inc accounted for approximately 22%, 22%, 18%, and 12%, and 20%, 26%, 16%, and 12%, respectively, of consolidated revenues from continuing operations during 2011 and 2010, respectively. Statoil ASA, Petrobras Transporte S.A., Teekay Corporation, and Talisman Energy Inc accounted for approximately 19%, 28%, 17%, and 12%, respectively, of consolidated revenues from continuing operations during 2009. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of revenues from continuing operations during any of these periods. If we lose a key customer, we may be unable to obtain replacement long-term charters or contracts of affreightment and may become subject, with respect to any shuttle tankers redeployed on conventional oil tanker trades, to the volatile spot market, which is highly competitive and subject to significant price fluctuations. If a customer exercises its right under some charters to purchase the vessel, we may be unable to acquire an adequate replacement vessel. Any replacement newbuilding would not generate revenues during its construction and we may be unable to charter any replacement vessel on terms as favorable to us as those of the terminated charter. The loss of any of our significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. We depend on Teekay Corporation to assist us in operating our businesses and competing in our markets. We and our operating subsidiaries have entered into various services agreements with certain subsidiaries of Teekay Corporation pursuant to which those subsidiaries will provide to us all of our administrative services and to the operating subsidiaries substantially all of their managerial, operational and administrative services (including vessel maintenance, crewing, crew training, purchasing, shipyard supervision, insurance and financial services) and other technical and advisory services. Our operational success and ability to execute our growth strategy depends significantly upon the satisfactory performance of these services by the Teekay Corporation subsidiaries. Our business will be harmed if such subsidiaries fail to perform these services satisfactorily or if they stop providing these services to us or our operating subsidiaries. Our ability to compete for offshore oil marine transportation, processing and storage projects and to enter into new charters or contracts of affreightment and expand our customer relationships depends largely on our ability to leverage our relationship with Teekay Corporation and its reputation and relationships in the shipping industry. If Teekay Corporation suffers material damage to its reputation or relationships, it may harm the ability of us or other subsidiaries to: • renew existing charters and contracts of affreightment upon their expiration; • obtain new charters and contracts of affreightment; • successfully interact with shipyards during periods of shipyard construction constraints; • obtain financing on commercially acceptable terms; or • maintain satisfactory relationships with suppliers and other third parties. If our ability to do any of the things described above is impaired, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. 12 Our operating subsidiaries may also contract with certain subsidiaries of Teekay Corporation for the Teekay Corporation subsidiaries to have newbuildings constructed or existing vessels converted on behalf of the operating subsidiaries and to incur the construction-related financing. The operating subsidiaries would purchase the vessels on or after delivery based on an agreed-upon price. None of our operating subsidiaries currently has this type of arrangement with Teekay Corporation or any of its affiliates. Our growth depends on continued growth in demand for offshore oil transportation, processing and storage services. Our growth strategy focuses on expansion in the shuttle tanker, FSO and FPSO sectors. Accordingly, our growth depends on continued growth in world and regional demand for these offshore services, which could be negatively affected by a number of factors, such as: • decreases in the actual or projected price of oil, which could lead to a reduction in or termination of production of oil at certain fields we service or a reduction in exploration for or development of new offshore oil fields; • increases in the production of oil in areas linked by pipelines to consuming areas, the extension of existing, or the development of new, pipeline systems in markets we may serve, or the conversion of existing non-oil pipelines to oil pipelines in those markets; • decreases in the consumption of oil due to increases in its price relative to other energy sources, other factors making consumption of oil less attractive or energy conservation measures; • availability of new, alternative energy sources; and • negative global or regional economic or political conditions, particularly in oil consuming regions, which could reduce energy consumption or its growth. Reduced demand for offshore marine transportation, processing or storage services would have a material adverse effect on our future growth and could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Because payments under our contracts of affreightment are based on the volume of oil transported and a portion of the payments under our FPSO units operations contracts are based on the volume of oil produced, utilization of our shuttle tanker fleet, the success of our shuttle tanker business and the revenue from our FPSO units depends upon continued production from existing or new oil fields, which is beyond our control and generally declines naturally over time. A portion of our shuttle tankers operate under contracts of affreightment. Payments under these contracts of affreightment are based upon the volume of oil transported, which depends upon the level of oil production at the fields we service under the contracts. Payments made to us under FPSO operations contracts are partially based on an incentive component, which is determined by the volume of oil produced. Oil production levels are affected by several factors, all of which are beyond our control, including: geologic factors, including general declines in production that occur naturally over time; mechanical failure or operator error; the rate of technical developments in extracting oil and related infrastructure and implementation costs; the availability of necessary drilling and other governmental permits; the availability of qualified personnel and equipment; strikes, employee lockouts or other labor unrest; and regulatory changes. In addition, the volume of oil produced may be adversely affected by extended repairs to oil field installations or suspensions of field operations as a result of oil spills or otherwise. The rate of oil production at fields we service may decline from existing or future levels. If such a reduction occurs, the spot market rates in the conventional oil tanker trades at which we may be able to redeploy the affected shuttle tankers may be lower than the rates previously earned by the vessels under the contracts of affreightment. We may receive a reduced or no incentive payment under the Petrojarl Varg operations contract or Talisman Energy Norge AS (or Talisman Energy) may terminate the Petrojarl Varg operations contract if the Varg field does not yield sufficient revenues. Low spot market rates for the shuttle tankers or any idle time prior to the commencement of a new contract or our inability to redeploy any of our FPSO units at an acceptable rate may have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. The duration of many of our shuttle tanker, FSO and FPSO contracts is the life of the relevant oil field or is subject to extension by the field operator or vessel charterer. If the oil field no longer produces oil or is abandoned or the contract term is not extended, we will no longer generate revenue under the related contract and will need to seek to redeploy affected vessels. Many of our shuttle tanker contracts have a “life-of-field” duration, which means that the contract continues until oil production at the field ceases. If production terminates for any reason, we no longer will generate revenue under the related contract. Other shuttle tanker, FSO and FPSO contracts under which our vessels operate are subject to extensions beyond their initial term. The likelihood of these contracts being extended may be negatively affected by reductions in oil field reserves, low oil prices generally or other factors. If we are unable to promptly redeploy any affected vessels at rates at least equal to those under the contracts, if at all, our operating results will be harmed. Any potential redeployment may not be under long-term contracts, which may affect the stability of our cash flow and our ability to make cash distributions. FPSO units, in particular, are specialized vessels that have very limited alternative uses and high fixed costs. In addition, FPSO units typically require substantial capital investments prior to being redeployed to a new field and production service agreement. Any idle time prior to the commencement of a new contract or our inability to redeploy the vessels at acceptable rates may have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. Future adverse economic conditions, including disruptions in the global credit markets, could adversely affect our results of operations. The global economy recently experienced an economic downturn and crisis in the global financial markets that produced illiquidity in the capital markets, market volatility, heightened exposure to interest rate and credit risks and reduced access to capital markets. If there is economic instability in the future, we may face restricted access to the capital markets or secured debt lenders, such as our revolving credit facilities. The decreased access to such resources could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Future adverse economic conditions may affect our customers’ ability to charter our vessels and pay for our services and may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Future adverse economic conditions may lead to a decline in our customers’ operations or ability to pay for our services, which could result in decreased demand for our vessels and services. Our customer’s inability to pay could also result in their default on our current contracts and charters. The decline in the amount of services requested by our customers or their default on our contracts with them could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The results of our shuttle tanker operations in the North Sea are subject to seasonal fluctuations. Due to harsh winter weather conditions, oil field operators in the North Sea typically schedule oil platform and other infrastructure repairs and maintenance during the summer months. Because the North Sea is one of our primary existing offshore oil markets, this seasonal repair and maintenance activity contributes to quarter-to-quarter volatility in our results of operations, as oil production typically is lower in the second and third quarters in this region compared with production in the first and fourth quarters. Because a portion of our North Sea shuttle tankers operate under contracts of affreightment, under which revenue is based on the volume of oil transported, the results of these shuttle tanker operations in the North Sea under these contracts generally reflect this seasonal production pattern. When we redeploy affected shuttle tankers as conventional oil tankers while platform maintenance and repairs are conducted, the overall financial results for the North Sea shuttle tanker operations may be negatively affected as the rates in the conventional oil tanker markets at times may be lower than contract of affreightment rates. In addition, we seek to coordinate some of the general dry-docking schedule of our fleet with this seasonality, which may result in lower revenues and increased dry-docking expenses during the summer months. Our growth depends on our ability to expand relationships with existing customers and obtain new customers, for which we will face substantial competition. One of our principal objectives is to enter into additional long-term, fixed-rate time charters and contracts of affreightment. The process of obtaining new long-term time charters and contracts of affreightment is highly competitive and generally involves an intensive screening process and competitive bids, and often extends for several months. Shuttle tanker, FSO and FPSO contracts are awarded based upon a variety of factors relating to the vessel operator, including: • industry relationships and reputation for customer service and safety; • experience and quality of ship operations; • quality, experience and technical capability of the crew; • relationships with shipyards and the ability to get suitable berths; • construction management experience, including the ability to obtain on-time delivery of new vessels according to customer specifications; • willingness to accept operational risks pursuant to the charter, such as allowing termination of the charter for force majeure events; and • competitiveness of the bid in terms of overall price. We expect substantial competition for providing services for potential shuttle tanker, FSO and FPSO projects from a number of experienced companies, including state-sponsored entities. Our Aframax conventional tanker business also faces substantial competition from major oil companies, independent owners and operators and other sized tankers. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources than do we, or Teekay Corporation, which also may compete with us. We anticipate that an increasing number of marine transportation companies — including many with strong reputations and extensive resources and experience — will enter the FSO and FPSO sectors. This increased competition may cause greater price competition for charters. As a result of these factors, we may be unable to expand our relationships with existing customers or to obtain new customers on a profitable basis, if at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. Delays in deliveries of newbuilding vessels or of conversions of existing vessels could harm our operating results. The delivery of any newbuildings or vessel conversions we may order could be delayed, which would delay our receipt of revenues under the charters or other contracts related to the vessels. In addition, under some charters we may enter into that are related to a newbuilding or conversion, if our delivery of the newbuilding or converted vessel to our customer is delayed, we may be required to pay liquidated damages during the delay. For prolonged delays, the customer may terminate the charter and, in addition to the resulting loss of revenues, we may be responsible for substantial liquidated damages. The completion and delivery of newbuildings or vessel conversions could be delayed because of: • quality or engineering problems, the risk of which may be increased with FPSO units due to their technical complexity; • changes in governmental regulations or maritime self-regulatory organization standards; • work stoppages or other labor disturbances at the shipyard; • bankruptcy or other financial crisis of the shipbuilder; • a backlog of orders at the shipyard; • political or economic disturbances; 14 • weather interference or catastrophic event, such as a major earthquake or fire; • requests for changes to the original vessel specifications; • shortages of or delays in the receipt of necessary construction materials, such as steel; • inability to finance the construction or conversion of the vessels; or • inability to obtain requisite permits or approvals. If delivery of a vessel is materially delayed, it could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. Charter rates for conventional oil tankers may fluctuate substantially over time and may be lower when we are attempting to recharter conventional oil tankers, which could adversely affect operating results. Any changes in charter rates for shuttle tankers or FSO or FPSO units could also adversely affect redeployment opportunities for those vessels. Our ability to recharter our conventional oil tankers following expiration of existing time-charter contracts and the rates payable upon any renewal or replacement charters will depend upon, among other things, the state of the conventional tanker market. Conventional oil tanker trades are highly competitive and have experienced significant fluctuations in charter rates based on, among other things, oil and vessel demand. For example, an oversupply of conventional oil tankers can significantly reduce their charter rates. There also exists some volatility in charter rates for shuttle tankers and FSO and FPSO units. Over time, the value of our vessels may decline, which could adversely affect our operating results. Vessel values for shuttle tankers, conventional oil tankers, FSO and FPSO units can fluctuate substantially over time due to a number of different factors, including: • prevailing economic conditions in oil and energy markets; • a substantial or extended decline in demand for oil; • increases in the supply of vessel capacity; • the cost of retrofitting or modifying existing vessels, as a result of technological advances in vessel design or equipment, changes in applicable environmental or other regulations or standards, or otherwise; and • a decrease in oil reserves in the fields and other fields in which our FPSO units might otherwise be deployed. Vessel values may decline from existing levels, and vessel values in particular have declined over the past few years. If operation of a vessel is not profitable, or if we cannot re-deploy a vessel at attractive rates upon termination of its contract, rather than continue to incur costs to maintain and finance the vessel, we may seek to dispose of it. Our inability to dispose of the vessel at a reasonable value could result in a loss on its sale and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Further, if we determine at any time that a vessel’s future useful life and earnings require us to impair its value on our financial statements, we may need to recognize a significant charge against our earnings. Climate change and greenhouse gas restrictions may adversely impact our operations and markets. Due to concern over the risk of climate change, a number of countries have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, regulatory frameworks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. These regulatory measures include, among others, adoption of cap and trade regimes, carbon taxes, increased efficiency standards, and incentives or mandates for renewable energy. Compliance with changes in laws, regulations and obligations relating to climate change could increase our costs related to operating and maintaining our vessels and require us to install new emission controls, acquire allowances or pay taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions, or administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program. Revenue generation and strategic growth opportunities may also be adversely affected. Adverse effects upon the oil industry relating to climate change may also adversely affect demand for our services. Although we do not expect that demand for oil will lessen dramatically over the short term, in the long term climate change may reduce the demand for oil or increased regulation of greenhouse gases may create greater incentives for use of alternative energy sources. Any long-term material adverse effect on the oil industry could have a significant financial and operational adverse impact on our business that we cannot predict with certainty at this time. We may be unable to make or realize expected benefits from acquisitions, and implementing our growth strategy through acquisitions may harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Our growth strategy includes selectively acquiring existing shuttle tankers and FSO and FPSO units or businesses that own or operate these types of vessels. Historically, there have been very few purchases of existing vessels and businesses in the FSO and FPSO segments. Factors that may contribute to a limited number of acquisition opportunities for FSO units and FPSO units in the near term include the relatively small number of independent FSO and FPSO fleet owners. In addition, competition from other companies, many of which have significantly greater financial resources than do we or Teekay Corporation, could reduce our acquisition opportunities or cause us to pay higher prices. Any acquisition of a vessel or business may not be profitable at or after the time of acquisition and may not generate cash flow sufficient to justify the investment. In addition, our acquisition growth strategy exposes us to risks that may harm our business, financial condition and operating results, including risks that we may: • fail to realize anticipated benefits, such as new customer relationships, cost-savings or cash flow enhancements; 15 • be unable to hire, train or retain qualified shore and seafaring personnel to manage and operate our growing business and fleet; • decrease our liquidity by using a significant portion of available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions; • significantly increase our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance acquisitions; • incur or assume unanticipated liabilities, losses or costs associated with the business or vessels acquired; or • incur other significant charges, such as impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges. Unlike newbuildings, existing vessels typically do not carry warranties as to their condition. While we generally inspect existing vessels prior to purchase, such an inspection would normally not provide us with as much knowledge of a vessel’s condition as we would possess if it had been built for us and operated by us during its life. Repairs and maintenance costs for existing vessels are difficult to predict and may be substantially higher than for vessels we have operated since they were built. These costs could decrease our cash flow and reduce our liquidity. Our substantial operations outside the United States expose us to political, governmental and economic instability, which could harm our operations. Because our operations are primarily conducted outside of the United States, they may be affected by economic, political and governmental conditions in the countries where we engage in business or where our vessels are registered. Any disruption caused by these factors could harm our business, including by reducing the levels of oil exploration, development and production activities in these areas. We derive some of our revenues from shipping oil from politically unstable regions. Conflicts in these regions have included attacks on ships and other efforts to disrupt shipping. Hostilities or other political instability in regions where we operate or where we may operate could have a material adverse effect on the growth of our business, results of operations and financial condition and ability to make cash distributions. In addition, tariffs, trade embargoes and other economic sanctions by the United States or other countries against countries in Southeast Asia or elsewhere as a result of terrorist attacks, hostilities or otherwise may limit trading activities with those countries, which could also harm our business and ability to make cash distributions. Finally, a government could requisition one or more of our vessels, which is most likely during war or national emergency. Any such requisition would cause a loss of the vessel and could harm our cash flow and financial results. Marine transportation is inherently risky, particularly in the extreme conditions in which many of our vessels operate. An incident involving significant loss of product or environmental contamination by any of our vessels could harm our reputation and business. Vessels and their cargoes and oil production facilities we service are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as: • marine disasters; • bad weather; • mechanical failures; • grounding, capsizing, fire, explosions and collisions; • piracy; • human error; and • war and terrorism. Our shuttle tanker fleet and the Petrojarl Varg FPSO unit operate in the North Sea. Harsh weather conditions in this region and other regions in which our vessels operate may increase the risk of collisions, oil spills, or mechanical failures. An accident involving any of our vessels could result in any of the following: • death or injury to persons, loss of property or damage to the environment and natural resources; • delays in the delivery of cargo; • loss of revenues from charters or contracts of affreightment; • liabilities or costs to recover any spilled oil or other petroleum products and to restore the eco-system affected by the spill; • governmental fines, penalties or restrictions on conducting business; • higher insurance rates; and • damage to our reputation and customer relationships generally. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, any damage to, or environmental contamination involving, oil production facilities serviced could suspend that service and result in loss of revenues. 16 Our insurance may not be sufficient to cover losses that may occur to our property or as a result of our operations. The operation of shuttle tankers, conventional oil tankers and FSO and FPSO units is inherently risky. All risks may not be adequately insured against, and any particular claim may not be paid by insurance. In addition, substantially all of our vessels are not insured against loss of revenues resulting from vessel off-hire time, based on the cost of this insurance compared to our off-hire experience. Any significant off-hire time of our vessels could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Any claims relating to our operations covered by insurance would be subject to deductibles, and since it is possible that a large number of claims may be brought, the aggregate amount of these deductibles could be material. Certain insurance coverage is maintained through mutual protection and indemnity associations, and as a member of such associations we may be required to make additional payments over and above budgeted premiums if member claims exceed association reserves. We may be unable to procure adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates in the future. For example, more stringent environmental regulations have led in the past to increased costs for, and in the future may result in the lack of availability of, insurance against risks of environmental damage or pollution. A catastrophic oil spill or marine disaster could exceed the insurance coverage, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Any uninsured or underinsured loss could harm our business and financial condition. In addition, the insurance may be voidable by the insurers as a result of certain actions, such as vessels failing to maintain certification with applicable maritime self-regulatory organizations. Changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks may also make certain types of insurance more difficult to obtain. In addition, the insurance that may be available may be significantly more expensive than existing coverage. We may experience operational problems with vessels that reduce revenue and increase costs. Shuttle tankers, FSO units and FPSO units are complex and their operation technically challenging. Marine transportation operations are subject to mechanical risks and problems. Operational problems may lead to loss of revenue or higher than anticipated operating expenses or require additional capital expenditures. Any of these results could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Terrorist attacks, piracy, increased hostilities or war could lead to further economic instability, increased costs and disruption of business. Terrorist attacks, piracy and the current conflicts in the Middle East, and other current and future conflicts, may adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition, and ability to raise capital and future growth. Continuing hostilities in the Middle East may lead to additional armed conflicts or to further acts of terrorism and civil disturbance in the United States or elsewhere, which may contribute further to economic instability and disruption of oil production and distribution, which could result in reduced demand for our services. In addition, oil facilities, shipyards, vessels, pipelines, oil fields or other infrastructure could be targets of future terrorist attacks and our vessels could be targets of pirates or hijackers. Any such attacks could lead to, among other things, bodily injury or loss of life, vessel or other property damage, increased vessel operational costs, including insurance costs, and the inability to transport oil to or from certain locations. Terrorist attacks, war, piracy, hijacking or other events beyond our control that adversely affect the distribution, production or transportation of oil to be shipped by us could entitle customers to terminate the charters and impact the use of shuttle tankers under contracts of affreightment, which would harm our cash flow and business. Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels have recently increased in frequency, which could adversely affect our business. Acts of piracy have historically affected ocean-going vessels trading in regions of the world such as the South China Sea and the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. In recent years, the frequency and severity of piracy incidents has significantly increased, particularly in the Gulf of Aden and Indian Ocean. If these piracy attacks result in regions in which our vessels are deployed being named on the Joint War Committee Listed Areas, war risk insurance premiums payable for such coverage can increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. In addition, crew costs, including costs which may be incurred to the extent we employ on-board security guards, could increase in such circumstances. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, detention hijacking as a result of an act of piracy against our vessels, or an increase in cost or unavailability of insurance for our vessels, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may experience operational problems with vessels that reduce revenue and increase costs. The offshore shipping and storage industry is subject to substantial environmental and other regulations, which may significantly limit operations or increase expenses. Our operations are affected by extensive and changing international, national and local environmental protection laws, regulations, treaties and conventions in force in international waters, the jurisdictional waters of the countries in which our vessels operate, as well as the countries of our vessels’ registration, including those governing oil spills, discharges to air and water, and the handling and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes. Many of these requirements are designed to reduce the risk of oil spills and other pollution. In addition, we believe that the heightened environmental, quality and security concerns of insurance underwriters, regulators and charterers will lead to additional regulatory requirements, including enhanced risk assessment and security requirements and greater inspection and safety requirements on vessels. We expect to incur substantial expenses in complying with these laws and regulations, including expenses for vessel modifications and changes in operating procedures. These requirements can affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels, require a reduction in cargo capacity, ship modifications or operational changes or restrictions, lead to decreased availability of insurance coverage for environmental matters or result in the denial of access to certain jurisdictional waters or ports, or detention in, certain ports. Under local, national and foreign laws, as well as international treaties and conventions, we could incur material liabilities, including cleanup obligations, in the event that there is a release of petroleum or hazardous substances from our vessels or otherwise in connection with our operations. We could also become subject to personal injury or property damage claims relating to the release of or exposure to hazardous materials associated with our operations. In addition, failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of our operations, including, in certain instances, seizure or detention of our vessels. Please see Item 4 Information on the Partnership – B. Business Overview – Regulations for important information on these regulations, including potential impacts on us. 17 Exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations results in fluctuations in cash flows and operating results. We currently are paid partly in Norwegian Kroner under some of our time charters and contracts of affreightment. In addition, we and our operating subsidiaries have entered into services agreements with certain subsidiaries of Teekay Corporation pursuant to which those subsidiaries provide to us administrative services and to our operating subsidiaries managerial, operational and administrative services. Under the services agreements, the applicable subsidiaries of Teekay Corporation are paid in U.S. dollars for reasonable direct and indirect expenses incurred in providing the services. A substantial majority of those expenses are in Norwegian Kroner. Fluctuating exchange rates may result in increased payments by us under the services agreements if the strength of the U.S. Dollar declines relative to the Norwegian Kroner. We also incur interest expense on our Norwegian Kroner-denominated bonds. Many seafaring employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements and the failure to renew those agreements or any future labor agreements may disrupt operations and adversely affect our cash flows. A significant portion of Teekay Corporation’s seafarers that crew certain of our vessels and Norwegian-based onshore operational staff that provide services to us are employed under collective bargaining agreements. Teekay Corporation may become subject to additional labor agreements in the future. Teekay Corporation may suffer labor disruptions if relationships deteriorate with the seafarers or the unions that represent them. The collective bargaining agreements may not prevent labor disruptions, particularly when the agreements are being renegotiated. Salaries are typically renegotiated annually or bi-annually for seafarers and annually for onshore operational staff and higher compensation levels will increase our costs of operations. Although these negotiations have not caused labor disruptions in the past, any future labor disruptions could harm our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and ability to make cash distributions. Teekay Corporation may be unable to attract and retain qualified, skilled employees or crew necessary to operate our business, or may have to pay substantially increased costs for its employees and crew. Our success depends in large part on Teekay Corporation’s ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. In crewing our vessels, we require technically skilled employees with specialized training who can perform physically demanding work. Competition to attract and retain qualified crew members is intense, and crew manning costs continue to increase. If we are not able to increase our rates to compensate for any crew cost increases, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Any inability we experience in the future to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could impair our ability to manage, maintain and grow our business. Teekay Corporation and its affiliates may engage in competition with us. Teekay Corporation and its affiliates may engage in competition with us. Pursuant to an omnibus agreement we entered into in connection with our initial public offering, Teekay Corporation, Teekay LNG Partners L.P. (NYSE: TGP) and their respective controlled affiliates (other than us and our subsidiaries) generally have agreed not to engage in, acquire or invest in any business that owns, operates or charters (a) dynamically-positioned shuttle tankers (other than those operating in the conventional oil tanker trade under contracts with a remaining duration of less than three years, excluding extension options), (b) FSO units or (c) FPSO units (collectively offshore vessels) without the consent of our general partner. The omnibus agreement, however, allows Teekay Corporation, Teekay LNG Partners L.P. and any of such controlled affiliates to: • own, operate and charter offshore vessels if the remaining duration of the time charter or contract of affreightment for the vessel, excluding any extension options, is less than three years; • own, operate and charter offshore vessels and related time charters or contracts of affreightment acquired as part of a business or package of assets and operating or chartering those vessels if a majority of the value of the total assets or business acquired is not attributable to the offshore vessels and related contracts, as determined in good faith by Teekay Corporation’s Board of Directors or the conflicts committee of the Board of Directors of Teekay LNG Partners L.P.’s general partner, as applicable; however, if at any time Teekay Corporation or Teekay LNG Partners L.P. completes such an acquisition, it must, within 365 days of the closing of the transaction, offer to sell the offshore vessels and related contracts to us for their fair market value plus any additional tax or other similar costs to Teekay Corporation or Teekay LNG Partners L.P. that would be required to transfer the vessels and contracts to us separately from the acquired business or package of assets; or • own, operate and charter offshore vessels and related time charters and contracts of affreightment that relate to tender, bid or award for a proposed offshore project that Teekay Corporation or any of its subsidiaries has submitted or received hereafter submits or receives; however, at least 365 days after the delivery date of any such offshore vessel, Teekay Corporation must offer to sell the vessel and related time charter or contract of affreightment to us, with the vessel valued (a) for newbuildings originally contracted by Teekay Corporation, at its “fully-built-up cost” (which represents the aggregate expenditures incurred (or to be incurred prior to delivery to us) by Teekay Corporation to acquire, construct and/or convert and bring such offshore vessel to the condition and location necessary for our intended use, plus project development costs for completed projects and projects that were not completed but, if completed, would have been subject to an offer to us) and (b) for any other vessels, Teekay Corporation’s cost to acquire a newbuilding from a third party or the fair market value of an existing vessel, as applicable, plus in each case any subsequent expenditures that would be included in the “fully-built-up cost” of converting the vessel prior to delivery to us. If we decline the offer to purchase the offshore vessels and time charters described above, Teekay Corporation or Teekay LNG Partners L.P., as applicable, may own and operate the offshore vessels, but may not expand that portion of its business. 18 In addition, pursuant to the omnibus agreement, Teekay Corporation, Teekay LNG Partners L.P. and any of their respective controlled affiliates (other than us and our subsidiaries) may: • acquire, operate and charter offshore vessels and related time charters and contracts of affreightment if our general partner has previously advised Teekay Corporation or Teekay LNG Partners L.P. that our general partner’s Board of Directors has elected, with the approval of its conflicts committee, not to cause us or our controlled affiliates to acquire or operate the vessels and related time charters and contracts of affreightment; • acquire up to a 9.9% equity ownership, voting or profit participation interest in any publicly-traded company that engages in, acquires or invests in any business that owns or operates or charters offshore vessels and related time charters and contracts of affreightment; • provide ship management services relating to owning, operating or chartering offshore vessels and related time charters and contracts of affreightment; or • own a limited partner interest in Teekay Offshore Operating L.P. (or OPCO) or own shares of Teekay Petrojarl. If there is a change of control of Teekay Corporation or of the general partner of Teekay LNG Partners L.P., the non-competition provisions of the omnibus agreement may terminate, which termination could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. Our general partner and its other affiliates own a controlling interest in us and have conflicts of interest and limited fiduciary duties, which may permit them to favor their own interests to those of unitholders. As at March 1, 2012, Teekay Corporation indirectly owns the 2.0% general partner interest and a 31.03% limited partner interest in us and controls our general partner, which controls us. Although our general partner has a fiduciary duty to manage us in a manner beneficial to us and our unitholders, the directors and officers of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to Teekay Corporation. Furthermore, certain directors and officers of our general partner are directors or officers of affiliates of our general partner. Conflicts of interest may arise between Teekay Corporation and its affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: • neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires Teekay Corporation or its affiliates (other than our general partner) to pursue a business strategy that favors us or utilizes our assets, and Teekay Corporation’s officers and directors have a fiduciary duty to make decisions in the best interests of the stockholders of Teekay Corporation, which may be contrary to our interests; • the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer and three of the directors of our general partner also serve as executive officers or directors of Teekay Corporation and the general partner of Teekay LNG Partners L.P.; • our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as Teekay Corporation, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duty to our unitholders; • our general partner has limited its liability and reduced its fiduciary duties under the laws of the Marshall Islands, while also restricting the remedies available to our unitholders and unitholders are treated as having agreed to the modified standard of fiduciary duties and to certain actions that may be taken by our general partner, all as set forth in our partnership agreement; • our general partner determines the amount and timing of our asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings, issuances of additional partnership securities and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is available for distribution to our unitholders; • in some instances, our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make incentive distributions (in each case to affiliates of Teekay Corporation); • our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; • our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us on terms that are fair and reasonable or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf; • our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations; • our general partner may exercise its right to call and purchase common units if it and its affiliates own more than 80.0% of our common units; • our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by it and its affiliates; and • our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. The fiduciary duties of the officers and directors of our general partner may conflict with those of the officers and directors of Teekay Corporation and the general partner of Teekay Offshore Partners L.P. Our general partner’s officers and directors have fiduciary duties to manage our business in a manner beneficial to us and our partners. However, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer and all of the non-independent directors of our general partner also serve as executive officers or directors of Teekay Corporation and the general partner of Teekay Offshore Partners L.P. Consequently, these officers and directors may encounter situations in which their fiduciary obligations to Teekay Corporation or Teekay Offshore Partners L.P., on one hand, and us, on the other hand, are in conflict. The resolution of these conflicts may not always be in the best interest of us or our unitholders. 19 Tax Risks In addition to the following risk factors, you should read Item 4E – Taxation of the Partnership and Item 10 – Taxation for a more complete discussion of the expected material U.S. federal and non-U.S. income tax considerations relating to us and the ownership and disposition of our Common Units. U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a “passive foreign investment company,” which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders. A non.-U.S. entity taxed as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes will be treated as a “passive foreign investment company” (or PFIC), for U.S. federal income tax purposes if at least 75.0 percent of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of “passive income,” or at least 50.0 percent of the average value of the entity’s assets produce or are held for the production of those types of “passive income.” For purposes of these tests, “passive income” includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties that are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. By contrast, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute “passive income.” There are legal uncertainties involved in determining whether the income derived from our time-chartering activities constitutes rental income or income derived from the performance of services, including the decision in Tidewater Inc. v. United States, 565 F.3d 299 (5th Cir. 2009), which held that income derived from certain time-chartering activities should be treated as rental income rather than services income for purposes of a foreign sales corporation provision of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (or the Code). However, the Internal Revenue Service (or IRS) stated in an Action on Decision (AOD 2010-01) that it disagrees with, and will not acquiesce to, the way that the rental versus services framework was applied to the facts in the Tidewater decision, and in its discussion stated that the time charters at issue in Tidewater would be treated as producing services income for PFIC purposes. The IRS’s statement with respect to Tidewater cannot be relied upon or otherwise cited as precedent by taxpayers. Consequently, in the absence of any binding legal authority specifically relating to the statutory provisions governing PFICs, there can be no assurance that the IRS or a court would not follow the Tidewater decision in interpreting the PFIC provisions of the Code. Nevertheless, based on our current assets and operations, we intend to take the position that we are not now and have never been a PFIC. No assurance can be given, however, that the IRS, or a court of law, will accept our position or that we would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in our assets, income or operations. If the IRS were to determine that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, U.S. unitholders will face adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, unless those U.S. unitholders make certain elections available under the Code, such unitholders would be liable to pay tax at ordinary income tax rates plus interest upon certain distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our common units, as if such distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the unitholder’s holding period. Please read Item 10 – Additional Information: Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations—United States Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Holders—Consequences of Possible PFIC Classification. The preferential tax rates applicable to qualified dividend income are temporary, and the absence of legislation extending the term would cause our dividends to be taxed at ordinary graduated tax rates. Certain of our distributions may be treated as qualified dividend income eligible for preferential rates of U.S. federal income tax to U.S. individual unitholders (and certain other U.S. unitholders). In the absence of legislation extending the term for these preferential tax rates or providing for some other treatment, all dividends received by such U.S. taxpayers in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2012 will be taxed at ordinary graduated tax rates. Please read Item 10 – Additional Information: Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations—United States Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Holders—Distributions. We may be subject to taxes, which reduces our Cash Available for Distribution to partners. We or our subsidiaries are subject to tax in certain jurisdictions in which we or our subsidiaries are organized, own assets or have operations, which reduces the amount of our cash available for distribution. In computing our tax obligations in these jurisdictions, we are required to take various tax accounting and reporting positions on matters that are not entirely free from doubt and for which we have not received rulings from the governing authorities. We cannot assure you that upon review of these positions, the applicable authorities will agree with our positions. A successful challenge by a tax authority could result in additional tax imposed on us or our subsidiaries, further reducing the cash available for distribution. For example, authorities in Norway recently asserted certain positions that may result in additional tax imposed on our subsidiaries in Norway. We have established reserves in our financial statements that we believe are adequate to cover our liability for any such additional taxes. We cannot assure you, however, that such reserves will be sufficient to cover any additional tax liability that may be imposed on our Norwegian subsidiaries. In addition, changes in our operations or ownership could result in additional tax being imposed on us or on our subsidiaries in jurisdictions in which operations are conducted. For example, Teekay Corporation now indirectly owns less than 50.0% of the value of our outstanding units and therefore we expect that we will not satisfy the requirements of the exemption from U.S. taxation under Section 883 of the Code and our U.S. source income will be subject to taxation under Section 887 of the Code. The amount of such tax will depend upon the amount of income we earn from voyages into or out of the United States, which is not within our complete control. 