Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business and an investment in our securities are subject to a variety of risks. The following risk factors describe the most significant events, facts or circumstances that could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to implement our business plan and the market price for our securities. Many of these events are outside of our control. If any of these risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and investors in our common stock could lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to Our Business Our ability to develop our wind tower business is dependent upon our ability to raise funds in the U.S. capital market which we cannot provide any assurances can be accomplished given our history, the current regulatory environment and market sentiment toward U.S. public holding companies with Chinese operating subsidiaries. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012, we were unable successfully bid on wind tower projects due to our inability to make the deposits required to bid on contracts. We failed to raise sufficient capital in 2011 and 2012 due to the decision by NASDAQ Listing Qualifications to delist the Company’s common stock in 2011. However, on July 11, 2013, the Securities Exchange Commission (“SEC”) reversed the 2011 delisting of the Company’s stock on the NASDAQ Stock Market, LLC. As of the filing date of this 10-K, the Company is attempting to meet the NASDAQ listing standards in order to gain meaningful access to the U.S. capital markets to fund future wind tower manufacturing. While management remains optimistic that with additional funding from the U.S. capital markets, the wind tower business may expand, we can provide no assurances that we will be able to qualify or remain listed on NASDAQ or to attract sufficient capital to develop our wind tower business. 16 Table of Contents We Are Not Currently Profitable And May Not Become Profitable. The Company incurred a net loss of $7.30 million and had $42,996 of cash and equivalents on hand as of December 31, 2012. In addition, we had loans of $3.2 million and a $50,000 promissory note that are past due. We also had a $10 million promissory note due in March 2013 that is also payable on demand of this report date. Further we have been unable to raise funds from the U.S. markets to pay off these obligations due to the decision by NASDAQ Listing Qualifications to delist the Company’s common stock. These conditions raise a substantial doubt as to whether the Company may continue as a going concern. The Company is planning to negotiate with its lenders to extend the maturity dates of its past due loans for another 12 months and to seek additional financing from local banks in the PRC. Our limited operating history may not serve as an adequate basis to judge our future prospects and results of operations, and our limited revenues may affect our future profitability. We and our subsidiaries began operations for the production of fabricated metal specialty components in September 2007 and introduced our bellows expansion joints products and pressure vessels in the first quarter of 2009 and our wind tower products in the first quarter of 2010. Our limited history of designing and manufacturing these fabricated metal specialty components may not provide a meaningful basis on which to evaluate our business. Moreover, we have limited revenues and we cannot assure you we will be able to expand our business and gross revenue with sufficient speed to return to profitability. We will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by companies at an early stage of development, including our potential failure to: · expand our product offerings and maintain the high quality of our products; · manage our expanding operations, including the integration of any future acquisitions; · obtain sufficient working capital to support our expansion and to fill customers’ orders in time; · maintain adequate control of our expenses; · maintain our proprietary technology; · implement our product development, marketing, sales, and acquisition strategies and adapt and modify them as needed; and · anticipate and adapt to changing conditions in the wind power, steel, petrochemical and thermoelectric industries as well as the impact of any changes in government regulation, mergers and acquisitions involving our competitors, technological developments and other significant competitive and market dynamics. Our inability to manage successfully any or all of these risks may materially and adversely affect our business. Our plans for growth rely on an increasing emphasis on the wind power industry; this sector faces many challenges, which may limit our potential for growth in this new market. Our principal plan for growth is to manufacture wind towers for the PRC domestic wind power industry. However, we received no meaningful revenue from sales of our wind towers for the year ended December 31, 2012. Our success depends on receiving a majority of our future revenues and earnings from sales of wind towers for the wind power industry in China. The wind power industry sector in China faces many challenges as it expands, including a reliance on continued PRC government environmental and energy conservation policies and incentive programs, which are one of the industry’s major growth drivers. Wind power currently accounts for a small percentage of the power generated in China, and the existing power grid and transmission system lags behind existing and planned wind power plant construction. Furthermore, the wind power industry is generally not competitive without government incentive programs and initiatives because of the relatively high generation costs for wind power compared to most other energy sources. The current government incentive programs and initiatives include a feed-in tariff paid to wind power producers by grid utility companies, a mandatory obligation for grid utility companies to purchase all the electricity generated by renewable energy projects within its grid coverage, preferential tax treatment and government spending and grants for renewable energy programs. Most of our customers are highly dependent on these government incentives, initiatives and other favorable policies to support their operations. There can be no assurance that PRC government support of the wind power industry will continue at its current level or at all, and any decrease or elimination of government incentives currently available to industry participants may result in increased operating costs incurred by our current customers or discourage our potential customers from purchasing our products. Our ability to market to this industry segment is dependent upon both an increased acceptance of wind power as an energy source in China and the industry’s acceptance of our products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop this business successfully, however, and our failure to develop the business further will have a material adverse effect on our overall financial condition and the results of our operations. Additionally, any uncertainties or adverse changes in government incentives, initiatives or policies relating to the wind power industry will materially and adversely affect the investment plans of our customers and consequently our growth. 17 Table of Contents Contracts for wind power projects in China are awarded through competitive public bids and there is no assurance that we will be asked to bid on new projects or that we will win these bids. Utilities in China award contracts for wind towers on a competitive basis. We generally become aware of upcoming projects by region as disclosed in annual NDRC wind development plans and through our customer relationships. Utilities disclose specific requests for proposals publicly via the Internet when they are prepared to accept bids. As a precursor to bidding, suppliers like us generally must have an existing relationship with the utility and a license to manufacture Class III A2 grade pressure vessels, which is often a specific requirement to bid on wind tower contracts. A substantial deposit based upon contract amount, typically around $125,000, is required for each bid, and is returned to the bidder approximately three months following bid submission. This process is designed to ensure that only companies with sufficient manufacturing capacity and capitalization bid on projects. It is our experience that typically three to six companies bid per contract. Competitive factors on wind tower bids include price, geographical proximity of the manufacturer to the wind power project, prior purchaser experience with the manufacturer and manufacturer reputation for quality and on-time delivery. We may not be successful in future bids and may fail to obtain new projects as a result. We believe we remain competitive in our pricing and delivery schedules for wind towers, but we cannot assure you our competitors will not underbid us. If we are unable to maintain good relationships with the utilities, we may not be allowed to participate in the bidding process on new projects. Our license to manufacture Class III A2 grade pressure vessels expires in January 2013. If we are unable to renew our license, we may not be able to bid on new wind tower contracts. Furthermore, we must maintain sufficient capital for the deposits made in connection with our bids, which may limit our ability to use our working capital. To the extent we are unsuccessful in our bids to provide wind towers to new wind power projects, our future growth may be materially and adversely affected. We derive a substantial part of our revenues from several significant customers. If we lose any of these customers or they reduce the amount of business they do with us, our revenues may be adversely affected. We generate significant revenues from a limited number of customers. Our four largest customers accounted for approximately 75% of net sales for the year ended December 31, 2012 and we did not sell any wind towers in 2012. These customers may not maintain the same volume of business with us in the future. If we lose any of these customers or they reduce the amount of business they do with us, our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected. We do not foresee relying on these same customers for revenue generation as we introduce new product lines and new generations of existing product lines because we expect our customers to change with each large-scale project. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to introduce successfully new products for large-scale projects in the future. Additionally, many customers of our bellows expansion joints and pressure vessels purchase these products as part of their capital budget. As a result, we are dependent upon receiving orders for these products from companies that are either expanding their business, commencing a new business, upgrading their capital equipment or otherwise require capital equipment. Our business for our bellows expansion joint and pressure vessel products is therefore dependent upon both the economic health of our customers’ industries and our ability to offer products that meet regulatory requirements, including environmental requirements, of such industries and are cost justifiable, based on potential regulatory compliance and cost savings in using our equipment in contrast to existing equipment or equipment offered by others. Any economic slowdown can affect all purchasers and manufacturers of capital equipment, and we cannot assure you that our business will not be significantly impaired as a result. If we lose our key personnel, or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified personnel, the quality of our services may decline and our business may be adversely affected. We rely heavily on the expertise, experience and continued service of our senior management, including our Chief Executive Officer, Bei Lv. Loss of her services could adversely affect our ability to achieve our business objectives. Ms. Lv is a key factor in our success at establishing relationships with the major utility and industrial companies using our products because of her industry experience and reputation. The continued development of our business depends upon the continued employment of Ms. Lv. We currently do not have an employment agreement with Ms. Lv, and her standard labor contract does not include provisions for non-competition or confidentiality. Ms. Lv, who owns approximately 37.5% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2012, has entered into a lockup agreement with us prohibiting her sale to the general public of all shares of our common stock held currently or acquired in the future until December 15, 2013, except in the event of a change of control or sale of our company. 18 Table of Contents We believe our future success will depend upon our ability to retain key employees and our ability to attract and retain other skilled personnel. The rapid growth of the economy in China has caused intense competition for qualified personnel. We cannot guarantee that any employee will remain employed by us for any period of time or that we will be able to attract, train or retain qualified personnel in the future. Such loss of personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and company. Furthermore, we need to employ additional personnel to expand our business. Qualified employees are in great demand and may be unavailable in the time frame required to satisfy our customers’ requirements. There is no assurance we will be able to attract and retain sufficient numbers of highly skilled employees in the future. The loss of personnel or our inability to hire or retain sufficient personnel at competitive rates could impair the growth of our business. We may not be able to keep pace with competition in our industry. Our business is subject to risks associated with competition from new or existing industry participants who may have more resources and better access to capital. Many of our competitors and potential competitors may have substantially greater financial and government support, technical and marketing resources, larger customer bases, longer operating histories, greater name recognition and more established relationships in the industry than we do. Among other things, these industry participants compete with us based upon price, quality, location and available capacity. We cannot be sure we will have the resources or expertise to compete successfully in the future. Some of our competitors may also be able to provide customers with additional benefits at lower overall costs to increase market share. We cannot be sure that we will be able to match cost reductions by our competitors or that we will be able to succeed in the face of current or future competition. In addition, some of our customers are also performing more manufacturing services themselves. We may face competition from our customers as they seek to become more vertically integrated. We currently are the only wind tower manufacturer in Tieling, Liaoning Province. Our competitive advantage in the region based on location would be harmed if a competitor established wind tower manufacturing facilities in or around Tieling. We will face different market dynamics and competition as we develop new products to expand our target markets. In some markets, our future competitors would have greater brand recognition and broader distribution than we currently enjoy. We may not be as successful as our competitors in generating revenues in those markets due to the lack of recognition of our brand, lack of customer acceptance, lack of product quality history and other factors. As a result, any new expansion efforts could be more costly and less profitable than our efforts in our existing markets. If we are not as successful as our competitors are in our target markets, our sales could decline, our margins could be impacted negatively and we could lose market share, any of which could materially harm our business. Our products may contain defects, which could adversely affect our reputation and cause us to incur significant costs. Despite testing by us, defects may be found in existing or new products. Any such defects could cause us to incur significant return, exchange and re-engineering costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from product development efforts, and cause significant customer relations and business reputation problems. Any such defects could force us to undertake a product recall program, which could cause us to incur significant expenses and could harm our reputation and that of our products. If we deliver defective products, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our products could be harmed. The nature of our products creates the possibility of significant product liability and warranty claims, which could harm our business. Material failure of any of our wind towers, bellows expansion joints or pressure vessels would have a material adverse effect on our business. Customers use some of our products in potentially hazardous applications that can cause injury or loss of life and damage to property, equipment or the environment. In addition, some of our products are integral to the production process for some end-users and any failure of our products could result in a suspension of operations. Although we perform testing on our products prior to delivery, we cannot be certain our products will be free from defects. Our wind towers are designed to exceed the entire expected life of their wind turbine installation, typically 20 years, but we cannot assure you of the operational life of our wind towers or their medium to long-term performance and operational reliability. We do not have any product liability insurance and may not have adequate resources to satisfy a judgment in the event of a successful claim against us. While we have not yet experienced any product liability claims against us, as a result of our limited operating history, we cannot predict whether product liability claims will be brought against us in the future or the impact of any resulting negative publicity on our business. The successful assertion of product liability claims against us could result in potentially significant monetary damages and require us to make significant payments. 19 Table of Contents We do not accrue any warranty reserve on our bellows expansion joints or pressure vessels products. Moreover, we have no historical basis on which to establish a reserve because of our limited operating history and lack of warranty expense since we began production. We offer a warranty on our products to each of our customers to repair or replace any defective product during the warranty term, which is a negotiated term of up to 12 months from the customer acceptance date, but currently we record no reserve for warranty claims on our bellows expansion joints or pressure vessels products, only for our wind tower products. Warranty expense accrual is a company estimate of future warranty claims based primarily on testing and quality control procedures with consideration also given to the history of prior warranty claims and our abbreviated operating history. We maintain a warranty reserve of 0.5% of net sales of our wind tower products. Although we have not and do not currently intend to accrue warranty expense for our bellows expansion joints and pressure vessels products, if we incur warranty claims in the future, we would be required to make a reserve for warranty expense. Certain raw materials used to manufacture our products make up a significant portion of the cost of those products, and price changes for these commodities may adversely affect our profitability. Our largest raw material purchases consist of stainless steel and carbon steel. As such, fluctuations in the price of steel in the PRC domestic market will have an impact on our operating costs and related profits. International and PRC domestic steel prices have steadily increased since 2009 along with the general economic recovery in China. The iron ore import price in China has also steadily increased since 2009, which will impact the price and volume of steel produced by the PRC domestic steel industry. Our profitability depends in part upon the margin between the cost to us of raw materials and our fabrication costs associated with converting such raw materials into assembled products, as compared to the selling price of our products. We do not engage in hedging transactions to protect against raw material price fluctuations. It is our intention to base the selling prices of our products in part upon the associated raw material costs to us. However, we may not be able to pass through to our customers all increases in raw material costs and ancillary acquisition costs associated with taking possession of the raw materials. Although we are currently able to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials, it is impossible to predict future availability or pricing. Our inability to offset price increases of raw materials with sufficient product price increases, or our inability to obtain raw materials, would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business is seasonal and will become more seasonal as the wind power industry becomes a larger part of our business. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations in sales volumes because we sell products that are installed outdoors and, consequently, weather conditions may affect demand for our products. Sales of our wind towers to the wind power industry in the northern provinces of China are affected by seasonal variations in both weather and customer operations. Customers generally request delivery during the second, third and fourth calendar quarters when the weather conditions in the northern provinces of China, where our manufacturing facilities and our customers’ wind farms are located, are more favorable for the installation of wind towers by the customer. Utilities typically place requests for proposals for new wind tower contracts in the fourth and first calendar quarters according to their internal operational schedules and annual budget requirements. In order to satisfy delivery schedules under these contracts, we manufacture most of our wind towers during the second and third calendar quarters for delivery in the second, third and fourth calendar quarters. As we expect the majority of our future revenues and earnings will be from the sale of wind towers to the wind power industry in China, our business will become more affected by the industry’s seasonal variations. We shall need additional capital to execute our business plan and fund operations and may not be able to obtain such capital on acceptable terms or at all. In order to expand and continue to develop our business, we expect to incur significant capital and operational expenses. However, if available funds are not sufficient to meet our plans for expansion, current operating expenses and loan obligations as they come due, our plans include considering pursuing alternative financing arrangements. Our ability to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms, or at all, is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: · investors’ perceptions of, and demand for, companies in our industry; · investors’ perceptions of, and demand for, companies operating in China; · conditions in the United States and other capital markets in which we may seek to raise funds; · our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows; · governmental regulation of foreign investment in companies in particular countries; · economic, political and other conditions in the United States, China and other countries; and · governmental policies relating to foreign currency borrowings. 20 Table of Contents We may be required to pursue sources of additional capital through various means, including joint venture projects and debt or equity financings. There is no assurance we will be successful in locating a suitable financing transaction in a timely fashion or at all. In addition, there is no assurance we will obtain the capital we require by any other means. Future financings through equity investments are likely to be dilutive to our existing shareholders. Also, the terms of securities we may issue in future capital transactions may be more favorable for our new investors. Newly issued securities may include preferences or superior voting rights, be combined with the issuance of warrants or other derivative securities, or be the issuances of incentive awards under equity employee incentive plans, which may have additional dilutive effects. Furthermore, we may incur substantial costs in pursuing future capital and financing, including investment banking fees, legal fees, accounting fees, printing and distribution expenses and other costs. We may also be required to recognize non-cash expenses in connection with certain securities we may issue, such as convertible notes and warrants, which will adversely impact our financial condition. If we cannot raise additional funds on favorable terms or at all, we may not be able to carry out all or part of our strategy to grow and to fund our operations. If the amount of capital we are able to raise from financing activities, together with our revenues from operations, is not sufficient to satisfy our capital needs, we may be required to reduce or cease operations. Our accounts receivable remain outstanding for a significant period of time, which has a negative impact on our cash flow and liquidity. Our agreements with customers of our wind towers generally provide that 10% of the purchase price is due upon our deposit of restricted cash into a bank account as a contract guarantee, 20% upon our purchase of raw material for the order, 10% upon delivery of the base ring component of the wind towers, 30% upon delivery of the wind tower tube sections and 20% upon customer inspection and acceptance of the product. We account for payments received from customers prior to customer acceptance of the product as unearned revenue. Customer acceptance occurs after the customer puts the product through a quality inspection, which our customers normally complete within one to two weeks from their receipt of the product. As a common practice in the manufacturing business in China, payment of the final 10% of the purchase price is due no later than the termination date of our warranty period, which is a negotiated term of up to 12 months from the customer acceptance date. Payment terms for our bellows expansion joints and pressure vessels are negotiated on a case-by-case basis and these payment percentages and terms may differ for each customer. We may experience payment delays from time to time of up to six months from the due date, as payment delays are very common in the manufacturing industry in China. Any customer delays in payment may have a negative impact on our cash flow and liquidity. We are required to maintain various licenses and permits related to our business, and the loss of or failure to renew any or all of these licenses and permits may require the temporary or permanent suspension of some or all of our operations. In accordance with the laws and regulations of the PRC, we are required to maintain various licenses and permits in order to operate our manufacturing business. We must maintain a business license, organization code certificate and a Certificate of Approval for the Establishment for Enterprises with Foreign Investment in the PRC for each of our PRC operating subsidiaries, Creative Bellows and Creative Wind Power. The business license permits us to operate our manufacturing business and to sell our products in China. Our operating subsidiaries in China each maintain a current business license, organization code and Certificate of Approval for Establishment for Enterprises with Foreign Investment. Furthermore, we are required to acquire a manufacturing license for specialized equipment from the State General Administration of the PRC for Quality Supervision and Inspection and Quarantine in order to manufacture pressure vessels of the Class III A2 grade. Many utilities and large-scale industrial companies in China require manufacturers like us to have this Class III A2 grade pressure vessel manufacturing license before allowing for the submission of bids on contracts for fabricated metal specialty components such as wind towers. Our radiological testing of products includes the use of x-rays for defect detection and we are required to maintain our defect detection room in compliance with PRC Ministry of Health standards for radiological protection standards for industrial x-rays. Failure to maintain these standards, or the loss of or failure to renew such licenses and production permits, could result in the temporary or permanent suspension of some or all of our manufacturing or distribution operations and could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. We may experience material disruptions to our manufacturing operations. While we seek to operate our facilities in compliance with applicable rules and regulations and take measures to minimize the risks of disruption at our facilities, a material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and negatively impact our financial results. Any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including: prolonged power failures; equipment failures; disruptions in the transportation infrastructure including roads, bridges, railroad tracks; and fires, floods, earthquakes, acts of war, or other catastrophes. 21 Table of Contents We cannot be certain that we will be successful in developing and marketing new products and improving our existing products. We believe our past performance has been based on, and our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to continue to improve our existing products through product innovation and to develop, market and produce new products. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in introducing, marketing and producing any new products or product innovations, or that we will develop and introduce in a timely manner innovations in our existing products that satisfy customer needs or achieve market acceptance. Our failure to develop new products and introduce them successfully and in a timely manner could harm our ability to grow our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The technology used in our products may not satisfy the changing needs of our customers. We believe that our future success depends in part on our ability to enhance our existing products and develop new products in order to continue to meet customer demands. We cannot assure you we will be able to keep pace with technological developments and market demands in our target industries and markets. Although certain technologies in the industries we occupy are well established, with any technology, including the technology of our current and proposed products, there are risks that the technology may not address successfully all of our customers’ needs. Moreover, our customers’ needs may change or vary. This may affect the ability of our present or proposed products to address all of our customers’ ultimate technology needs in an economically feasible manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We face risks associated with managing operations in China. All of our operations are conducted in China. There are a number of risks inherent in doing business in China, including the following: · unfavorable political or economical factors; · fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; · potentially adverse tax consequences; · unexpected legal or regulatory changes; · lack of sufficient protection for intellectual property rights; · difficulties in recruiting and retaining personnel, and managing international operations; and · less developed infrastructure. Our inability to manage successfully these risks could adversely affect our business. Furthermore, we can provide no assurances that any new market expansion will be successful because of the risks associated with conducting such operations, including the risks listed above. We may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals for our products. The PRC and local provincial governments regulate the manufacture and sale of our products in China. Although our licenses and regulatory filings are up to date, the uncertain legal environment in China and our industry may be vulnerable to local government agencies or other parties who wish to renegotiate the terms and conditions or terminate their agreements or other understandings with us. Failure to obtain or maintain, or any delay in obtaining, any of these licenses and regulatory filings may subject us to fines, penalties or business interruption, and therefore could have a material and adverse effect on our business and prospects. Our insurance coverage may be inadequate to protect us from potential losses. We do not maintain business interruption insurance. The insurance industry in China is in its early stage of development and the business interruption insurance and the product liability insurance available currently in China offers limited coverage compared to that offered in many other countries, especially in the United States. Any business disruption or natural disaster could result in substantial costs and a diversion of resources, which would have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business operations, particularly our production facilities, involve risks and hazards that could result in damage to, or destruction of, property and machinery, personal injury, business interruption and possible legal liability. In addition, we do not have product liability insurance covering bodily injuries and property damage caused by the products we sell. Therefore, we are exposed to risks associated with product liability claims and may need to bear the litigation cost if the use of our products results in bodily injury or property damage. We do not carry key-man life insurance, and if we lose the services of any senior management and key personnel, we may not be able to locate suitable or qualified replacements, and may incur additional expenses to recruit and train new personnel, which could severely disrupt our business and prospects. Furthermore, we do not have property insurance, and we are exposed to risks associated with losses in values of our equipment, facilities and inventory due to fire, earthquake, flood and a wide range of natural disasters. We do not have personal injury insurance and accidental medical care insurance. Although we require that the third-party transportation companies we engage maintain insurance policies with respect to inland transit risks for our products, the coverage may be inadequate to protect us from potential claims against us and the losses that may result. The occurrence of a significant event for which we are not fully insured or indemnified, or the failure of a party to meet its underwriting or indemnification obligations, could materially and adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable. 22 Table of Contents Our bank accounts are not insured or protected against loss. We maintain our cash with various national banks located in China. Our cash accounts are not insured or otherwise protected against loss. Should any bank holding our cash deposits become insolvent, or if we are otherwise unable to withdraw funds, we would lose the cash on deposit with that particular bank. We may not be able to protect our technology and other proprietary rights adequately. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and protect our products, methods, processes and other technologies, to preserve our trade secrets, and to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties, both domestically and abroad. Despite our efforts, any of the following may reduce the value of our owned and used intellectual property: · issued patents and trademarks that we own or have the right to use may not provide us with any competitive advantages; · our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights may not be effective in preventing misappropriation of our technology or that of those from whom we license our rights to use; · our efforts may not prevent the development and design by others of products or technologies similar to or competitive with, or superior to those we use or develop; or · another party may obtain a blocking patent and we or our licensors would need to either obtain a license or design around the patent in order to continue to offer the contested feature or service in our products. Effective protection of intellectual property rights may be unavailable or limited in China or certain other countries. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights adequately, it would have a negative impact on our operations. We, or the owners of the intellectual property rights licensed to us, may be subject to claims that we or such licensors have infringed the proprietary rights of others, which could require us and our licensors to obtain a license or change designs. Although we do not believe any of our products infringe upon the proprietary rights of others, there is no assurance that infringement or invalidity claims (or claims for indemnification resulting from infringement claims) will not be asserted or prosecuted against us or those from whom we have licenses or that any such assertions or prosecutions will not have a material adverse effect on our business. Regardless of whether any such claims are valid or can be asserted successfully, defending against such claims could cause us to incur significant costs and could divert resources away from our other activities. In addition, assertion of infringement claims could result in injunctions that prevent us from distributing our products. If any claims or actions are asserted against us or those from whom we have licenses, we may seek to obtain a license to the intellectual property rights that are in dispute. Such a license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all, which could force us to change our designs. Our business could be subject to environmental liabilities. As is the case with manufacturers of similar products, we use certain hazardous substances in our operations. Currently, our business is subject to the Environmental Protection Law of the PRC as well as national and local laws regarding pollutant discharge, air, water and noise pollution. Although we believe we are in compliance in all material respects with the environmental laws and regulations of the municipal and provincial authorities of Liaoning Province and China, if it is determined that we are in violation of these regulations, we could be subject to financial penalties as well as the loss of our business license. Furthermore, if the national or local government adopts more stringent environmental regulations, we may incur significant costs in complying with such regulations. If we fail to comply with present or future environmental regulations, we may be required to pay substantial fines, suspend production or cease operations and may be subject to adverse publicity. We currently do not incur any material costs in connection with our compliance with environmental laws as our manufacturing processes generate minimal discharge. However, the risk of environmental liability and charges associated with maintaining compliance with PRC environmental laws is inherent in the nature of our business, and there is no assurance that material environmental liabilities and compliance charges will not arise in the future. We incur significant costs as a result of our operating as a public company and our management is required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. While we are a public company, our compliance costs prior to the acquisition of Creative Bellows were not substantial in light of our limited operations. Creative Bellows never operated as a public company prior to our acquisition of it. As a public company with substantial operations, we incur increased legal, accounting and other expenses. The costs of preparing and filing annual and quarterly reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC and furnishing audited financial statements to shareholders is time-consuming and costly. 23 Table of Contents It will also be time-consuming, difficult and costly for us to implement the internal controls and reporting procedures required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Certain members of our management have limited or no experience operating a company whose securities are publicly traded or with the rules and reporting practices required by the federal securities laws and applicable to a publicly traded company. We will need to recruit, hire, train and retain additional financial reporting, internal control and other personnel in order to implement appropriate internal controls and reporting procedures. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately. Any inability to report and file our financial results accurately and timely could harm our business and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. We are required to establish and maintain internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures and to comply with other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the rules promulgated by the SEC. At present, we have instituted internal controls, but it may take time to implement them fully as a newly public company. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, cannot guarantee that our internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures will prevent all possible errors. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no system of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the possibility that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and subject to simple error or mistake. Furthermore, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be detected. Our inability or failure to report and file our financial results accurately and timely could harm our business and the trading price of our common stock. Our accounting personnel who are primarily responsible for the preparation and supervision of the preparation of our financial statements under generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S., or U.S. GAAP, have limited relevant education and training in U.S. GAAP and SEC rules and regulations pertaining to financial reporting, which could impact our ability to prepare our financial statements and convert our books and records to U.S. GAAP. Our manufacturing operations are in China and we have historically maintained our books and records in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the PRC, or PRC GAAP. Our accounting personnel in the PRC who have the primary responsibilities of preparing and supervising the preparation of financial statements under U.S. GAAP have limited relevant education and training in U.S. GAAP and related SEC rules and regulations. As such, they may be unable to identify potential accounting and disclosure issues that may arise upon the conversion of our books and records from PRC GAAP to U.S. GAAP, which could affect our ability to prepare our financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We have taken steps to ensure that our financial statements are in accordance with U.S. GAAP, including our hiring of a U.S. accounting firm to work with our PRC accounting personnel and management to convert our books and records to U.S. GAAP and prepare our financial statements. In addition, our annual financial statements are audited by an independent auditor for compliance with U.S. GAAP and to ensure that all necessary and appropriate adjustments from PRC GAAP to U.S. GAAP have been made. However, the measures we have taken may not be sufficient to mitigate the foregoing risks associated with the limited education and training of our accounting personnel in U.S. GAAP and related SEC rules and regulations. We are a holding company that depends on cash flow from our wholly owned subsidiaries to meet our obligations. After our acquisition of Creative Bellows, we became a holding company with no material assets other than the ownership interests of our two wholly owned subsidiaries in China, Creative Bellows and Creative Wind Power, itself a wholly owned subsidiary of Creative Bellows. Accordingly, Creative Bellows and Creative Wind Power conduct all of our operations. We rely on dividends paid by our subsidiaries for our cash needs, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, to service any debt we may incur and to pay our operating expenses. China has currency and capital transfer regulations that require us to comply with complex regulations for the movement of capital. Regulations in China currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in China. We also are required to set aside at least 10% of our net income after taxes based on China’s accounting standards each year to statutory surplus reserves until the cumulative amount of such reserves reaches 50% of registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. Our subsidiaries also may allocate a portion of their after-tax profits to their staff welfare and bonus funds, which may not be distributed to equity owners except in the event of liquidation. In addition, if our subsidiaries incur debt, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Accordingly, if our subsidiaries are unable to pay us dividends and make other payments to us when needed because of regulatory restrictions or otherwise, we may be materially and adversely limited in our ability to make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends or otherwise fund and conduct our business. 24 Table of Contents All of Creative Bellows’ liabilities survived its acquisition by us, and there may be undisclosed liabilities that could have a negative impact on our financial condition. Before our acquisition of Creative Bellows, certain due diligence activities on our company and Creative Bellows were performed by us, our auditors and our attorneys. The due diligence process may not have revealed all liabilities (actual or contingent) of our company and Creative Bellows that existed or which may arise in the future relating to activities before the consummation of our acquisition of Creative Bellows. Notwithstanding that all of our pre-closing liabilities were transferred to the seller pursuant to the terms of the Share Exchange Agreement, it is possible that claims for such liabilities may still be made against us, which we will be required to defend or otherwise resolve. The transfer of pre-closing liabilities pursuant to the Share Exchange Agreement may not be sufficient to protect us from claims and liabilities, and any breaches of related representations and warranties. Any liabilities remaining from pre-closing activities could harm our financial condition and results of operations. We pledged one of our manufacturing plants as collateral for its construction cost, and if we do not make payments under its construction agreement, we can be removed from the plant, causing significant disruption to our business. One of our manufacturing plants in Tieling, Liaoning Province, China was built pursuant to a construction agreement entered into with the local government authority, the Administration Committee for Liaoning Special Vehicle Production Base, or , on September 21, 2009. Under the terms of the construction agreement, LSVPB was responsible for the construction of the plant and we pledged the plant as collateral for our payment to LSVPB of $1,944,151 (RMB 12,249,900) in plant construction costs over five equal annual installment payments. We started using the completed plant in August 2010. LSVPB has the right to foreclose on the plant in the event that our payments are in arrears for more than two years. In the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company received a subsidy from LSVPB of $1.11 million (RMB 7,000,000) against the outstanding payment. In the first quarter of 2012, the Company repaid $382,886 (RMB 2,410,000). The repayments were to reduce the current portion of this payable. In the event that we fail to make the annual installment payments in a timely manner and LSVPB forecloses on the plant, and we are unable to relocate immediately to comparable facilities, our manufacturing process will be significantly disrupted, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Risks Related to Business in China Inflation in China could negatively affect our profitability and growth. The rapid growth of China’s economy has been uneven among economic sectors and geographic regions of the country and has been fueled over the last three years by a large amount of debt issuances. China’s economy grew at an annual rate of 9.2% in 2011, as measured by the year-over-year change in Gross Domestic Product, or GDP, according to the National Bureau of Statistics of China, or the NBS. Rapid economic growth and less restrictive monetary policies can lead to growth in the money supply and rising inflation. According to the NBS, the annual inflation rate in China, as measured by the year-over-year change in consumer price index, was 4.2% in 2011, according to the NBS. If prices for our products fail to rise at a rate sufficient to compensate for the increased costs of supplies, such as raw materials, due to inflation, it may have an adverse effect on our profitability. In order to control inflation in the past, the PRC government has imposed controls on bank credits, limits on loans for fixed assets, restrictions on state bank lending and raised reserve requirements for banks. In addition, the People’s Bank of China, or the PBOC, which is the central bank of the PRC, has effected several increases in interest rates in response to inflationary concerns in China’s economy. The implementation of such policies may further impede future economic growth. If the PBOC continues to raise interest rates, economic activity in China could further slow and, in turn, materially increase our costs and reduce demand for our products and services. China’s economic policies could affect our business. All of our assets are located in China and all of our revenue is derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our results of operations and prospects are subject to the economic, political and legal developments in China. While China’s economy has experienced significant growth in the past 20 years, such growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures may have a negative effect on us. For example, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected by the government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations. In recent years, the PRC government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform and the reduction of state ownership of productive assets, and the establishment of corporate governance in business enterprises; however, a substantial portion of productive assets in China are still owned by the PRC government. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. It also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, the control of payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, the setting of monetary policy and the provision of preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth and the level of clean energy investments and expenditures in China, which in turn could lead to reduced demand for our products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business. 25 Table of Contents We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in China. Historically, China has not adopted an international style of management or financial reporting concepts and practices, nor modern banking, computer and other control systems. We may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to work in China. As a result of these factors, we may experience difficulty in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet international standards. If relations between the United States and China worsen, investors may be unwilling to hold or buy our stock and our stock price may decrease. At various times during recent years, the United States and China have had significant disagreements over political and economic issues. Controversies may arise in the future between these two countries. Any political or trade controversies between the United States and China, whether or not directly related to our business, could reduce the price of our common stock. China could change its policies toward private enterprises or nationalize or expropriate private enterprises. Our business is subject to significant political and economic uncertainties and may be affected by political, economic and social developments in China. Over the past several years, the PRC government has pursued economic reform policies including the encouragement of private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. The PRC government may not continue to pursue these policies or may significantly alter them to our detriment from time to time with little, if any, prior notice. Changes in policies, laws and regulations or in their interpretation or the imposition of confiscatory taxation, restrictions on currency conversion, restrictions or prohibitions on dividend payments to shareholders, or devaluations of currency could cause a decline in the price of our common stock, should a market for our common stock ever develop. Nationalization or expropriation could result in the total loss of your investment. The nature and application of many laws of China create an uncertain environment for business operations and they could have a negative effect on us. The legal system in China is a civil law system. Unlike the common law system, the civil law system is based on written statutes in which decided legal cases have little value as precedents. In 1979, China began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and has since introduced many laws and regulations to provide general guidance on economic and business practices in China and to regulate foreign investment. Progress has been made in the promulgation of laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. The promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws and the abrogation of local regulations by national laws could cause a decline in the price of our common stock. In addition, as these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent, their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainty. Furthermore, the political, governmental and judicial systems in China are sometimes impacted by corruption. There is no assurance we will be able to obtain recourse in any legal disputes with suppliers, customers or other parties with whom we conduct business, if desired, through China’s developing and sometimes corrupt judicial systems. It will be extremely difficult to acquire jurisdiction and enforce liabilities against our officers, directors and assets based in China. As our executive officers and several of our directors, including the Chairman of our Board of Directors, are citizens of the PRC, it may be difficult, if not impossible, to acquire jurisdiction over these persons in the event a lawsuit is initiated against us or our executive officers and directors by a shareholder or group of shareholders in the U.S. Also, because our operating subsidiaries and assets are located in China, it may be extremely difficult or impossible for individuals to access those assets to enforce judgments rendered against us or our directors or executive officers by U.S. courts. In addition, the courts in China may not permit the enforcement of judgments arising out of U.S. federal and state corporate, securities or similar laws. Accordingly, U.S. investors may not be able to enforce judgments against us for violation of U.S. securities laws. 26 Table of Contents Fluctuation of the Renminbi may affect our financial condition and the value of our securities. Although we use the U.S. dollar, or USD, for financial reporting purposes, most of the transactions effected by our operating subsidiaries are denominated in Chinese yuan renminbi, or RMB, the national currency of the PRC. The value of the RMB fluctuates and is subject to changes in China’s political and economic conditions. Since June 2008, the RMB has been pegged to the USD. Because the PBOC regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate, the RMB may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the USD in the medium to long term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future the PRC authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the RMB exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign exchange market. In June 2010, the PBOC announced that it will manage the RMB exchange rate more flexibly, following nearly two years in which the RMB has been pegged to the USD. Future movements in the exchange rate of the RMB could adversely affect our financial condition as we may suffer financial losses when transferring money raised outside of China into the country or paying vendors for services performed outside of China. Moreover, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the USD and RMB will affect our financial results reported in USD terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business, financial condition or results of operations. The value of our common stock likewise will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between the USD and RMB, and between those currencies and other currencies in which our sales may be denominated. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we may issue in the future that will be exchanged into USD and earnings from, and the value of, any USD-denominated investments we make in the future. For example, if we need to convert USD into RMB for our operational needs and the RMB appreciates against the USD at that time, our financial position, our business and the price of our common stock may be harmed. Conversely, if we decide to convert our RMB into USD for the purpose of declaring dividends on our common stock or for other business purposes and the USD appreciates against the RMB, the USD equivalent of our earnings from our subsidiaries in China would be reduced. PRC regulations relating to mergers, off-shore companies and PRC resident shareholders, if applied to us, may limit our ability to operate our business. PRC regulations govern the process by which we may participate in an acquisition of assets or equity interests. Depending on the structure of the transaction, these regulations require involved parties to make a series of applications and supplemental applications to various government agencies. In some instances, the application process may require the presentation of economic data concerning a transaction, including appraisals of the target business and evaluations of the acquirer, which are designed to allow the government to assess the transaction. Government approvals will have expiration dates by which a transaction must be completed and reported to the government agencies. Compliance with the new regulations is likely to be more time consuming and expensive than in the past and the government can now exert more control over the combination of two businesses. Accordingly, due to PRC regulations, our ability to engage in business combination transactions in China through our subsidiaries in China has become significantly more complicated, time consuming and expensive, and we may not be able to negotiate transactions acceptable to us or sufficiently protective of our interests. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. The RMB is currently convertible under the “current account,” which includes dividends, trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account,” which includes foreign direct investment and loans. Currently, our subsidiaries in China may purchase foreign currencies for settlement of current account transactions, including payments of dividends to us, without the approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE. However, the relevant PRC government authorities may limit or eliminate their ability to purchase foreign currencies in the future. Since a significant amount of our revenues are denominated in RMB, any existing and future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize revenues generated in RMB to fund our business activities outside China that are denominated in foreign currencies. On August 29, 2008, the SAFE promulgated the Notice on Perfecting Practices Concerning Foreign Exchange Settlement Regarding the Capital Contribution by Foreign-invested Enterprises, or Circular 142, to regulate the conversion by foreign-invested enterprises of foreign currency into RMB by restricting how the converted RMB may be used. Circular 142 requires that RMB converted from the foreign currency-dominated capital of a foreign-invested enterprise may only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by the applicable government authority and may not be used for equity investments within the PRC unless specifically provided for otherwise. In addition, the SAFE strengthened its oversight over the flow and use of RMB funds converted from the foreign currency-dominated capital of a foreign-invested enterprise. The use of such RMB may not be changed without approval from the SAFE, and may not be used to repay RMB loans if the proceeds of such loans have not yet been used. If we finance our subsidiaries by means of additional capital contributions, these capital contributions must be approved by certain government authorities, including the NDRC, the Ministry of Commerce, or MOFCOM, or their respective local counterparts. These limitations could affect the ability of our subsidiaries in China to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing. 27 Table of Contents PRC regulations relating to the registration requirements for PRC resident shareholders owning shares in off-shore companies as well as registration requirements of employee stock ownership plans or share option plans may subject our PRC resident shareholders to personal liability and limit our ability to acquire companies in China or to inject capital into our operating subsidiaries in China, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business. SAFE issued a public notice in October 2005, which we refer to as Circular 75, requiring PRC residents, including both legal persons and natural persons, to register with the competent local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China, referred to as an “off-shore special purpose company,” for the purpose of acquiring any assets of or equity interest in PRC companies and raising funds from overseas. In addition, any PRC resident who is the shareholder of an off-shore special purpose company is required to amend his or her SAFE registration with the local SAFE branch, with respect to that off-shore special purpose company in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, merger, division, equity investment or creation of any security interest over any assets located in China. If any PRC resident who is the shareholder of an off-shore special purpose company fails to comply with the SAFE registration requirements, the PRC subsidiaries of the off-shore special purpose company may be prohibited from distributing their profits and proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to their off-shore parent company and the off-shore parent company may be restricted in its ability to contribute additional capital into its PRC subsidiaries. Moreover, failure to comply with the SAFE registration requirements could result in liabilities under PRC laws for evasion of foreign exchange restrictions. We cannot predict fully how Circular 75 will affect our business operations or future strategies because of ongoing uncertainty over how Circular 75 is interpreted and implemented, and how or whether SAFE will apply it to us. We have requested our PRC resident beneficial owners, including our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, to make the necessary applications, filings and amendments as required under SAFE regulations in connection with their equity interests in us. We attempt to ensure that our subsidiaries in China comply, and that our PRC resident beneficial owners subject to these rules comply, with the relevant SAFE regulations. We cannot provide any assurance that all of our present or prospective direct or indirect PRC resident beneficial owners have complied or will comply fully with all applicable registrations or required approvals. The failure or inability of our PRC resident beneficial owners to comply with the applicable SAFE registration requirements may subject these beneficial owners or us to fines, legal sanctions and restrictions described above. On March 28, 2007, SAFE released detailed registration procedures for employee stock ownership plans or share option plans to be established by overseas listed companies and for individual plan participants. Any failure to comply with the relevant registration procedures may affect the effectiveness of employee stock ownership plans or share option plans and subject the plan participants, the companies offering the plans or the relevant intermediaries, as the case may be, to penalties under the PRC foreign exchange regime. To date, all of our grants of options have been solely to U.S. citizens. We currently have no employee stock ownership plan or share option plan in effect. If we establish an employee stock ownership plan or share option plan and fail to comply with the relevant registration procedures, we may be subject to fines and legal sanctions or be prevented from making distributions or paying dividends, as a result of which our results of operations and ability to distribute profits could be materially and adversely affected. The waiver and release agreements between us and certain shareholders may be challenged by PRC tax authorities and be subject to transfer pricing adjustments. On October 27, 2010, certain shareholders waived any right to receive further payment for their ownership interests in us resulting from the Share Exchange Agreement in exchange for a mutual release of claims pursuant to waiver and release agreements, or the Waiver and Release Agreements. Under applicable PRC tax rules, any transaction between related parties must be priced on an arm’s length basis. The PRC tax authority has the right to investigate any related party transaction and to make adjustment if it finds that the price does not reflect an arm’s length transaction. The PRC tax authority would make adjustments by applying a deemed arm’s length price to the transaction. Given that the parties to the respective Waiver and Release agreements were related parties, there is a possibility that these transfers may be challenged and investigated by the PRC tax authority and deemed to have been made without consideration. If the deemed appropriate arm’s length price determined by the PRC tax authority during such investigation is higher than that already paid to those shareholders, such excess amount could be subject to a 20% PRC income tax. Although we believe that the respective individual shareholders would be responsible for any possible PRC income tax, we understand that it is common practice for PRC tax authorities to enforce the tax collection against the entity at issue, which in this case would be us. If the PRC tax authorities do hold us responsible for these taxes, we may be required to pay the possible PRC tax on behalf of certain shareholders for these transactions. 28 Table of Contents If we fail to satisfy our required additional contribution of registered capital to Creative Bellows, CleanTech may be required to pay a penalty and it may not be able to distribute dividends to us, which could adversely affect our business. We were required to contribute $8.45 million as additional capital to Creative Bellows by July 2012 which was not made at that time. We may be subject to a penalty related to the unsatisfied portion of registered capital. We can pay the penalty and request that our registered capital be reduced to the amount already paid or to another amount that can be satisfied within a specific period of time. We may also apply for a grace period to receive up to an additional nine months to make the payment, or we may apply to reduce its registered capital prior to the payment becoming due. We plan to apply for, and expect to be approved for, permission to decrease capital contribution to our current contribution of RMB 122.6 million (US$19.35 million) in 2013. In May 2013, the Company was approved to reduce it's capital contribution to RMB 122.6 million (US$19.35 million). Under PRC laws, shareholders of a foreign-invested enterprise are required to contribute capital to satisfy the registered capital requirement of the foreign-invested enterprise within a period of not more than two years from the date when the foreign-invested enterprise’s license to conduct business is initially granted. The relevant PRC government agencies may extend the contribution period for an additional six months without penalty, and, upon application by the foreign-invested enterprise, grant a further three-month grace period without penalty. If the capital contribution remains incomplete after the grace periods have been exhausted or denied, the foreign invested enterprise may be required to pay a negotiated penalty related to the unsatisfied contribution of registered capital remaining outstanding. If the shareholders remain unable to complete the registered capital contribution within a six-month period following payment of the penalty, the foreign-invested enterprise may reduce its increased registered capital to the amount contributed with the amount remaining outstanding waived by the relevant PRC government agencies. Until such contribution of capital is satisfied or the registered capital requirement is reduced to the amount already contributed, however, the foreign-invested enterprise is not allowed to repatriate profits to its shareholders, unless otherwise approved by SAFE. If we fail to satisfy our additional capital contribution to Creative Bellows, Creative Bellows may be required to pay a penalty and it may not be able to repatriate profits or dividends to us, which could adversely affect our business and the value of our common stock. PRC labor laws may adversely affect our results of operations. On June 29, 2007, the PRC government promulgated a new labor law, namely, the Labor Contract Law of the PRC, or the Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. The Labor Contract Law imposes greater liabilities on employers and significantly affects the cost of an employer’s decision to reduce its workforce. Further, it requires that certain terminations be based upon seniority and not merit. In the event we decide to significantly change or decrease our workforce in China, the Labor Contract Law could adversely affect our ability to effect such changes in a manner that is most advantageous to our business or in a timely and cost-effective manner, thus materially and adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. We operate in the PRC through our wholly owned operating entities, and the local office of the MOFCOM has initially approved Creative Bellows’ WFOE status. However, we cannot assure you that such approval procedures have been completely satisfied. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, including MOFCOM and the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, promulgated the Rules on Acquisition of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Regulations, which govern the acquisition of PRC domestic enterprises by foreign investors as well as the listing of certain non-PRC entities on exchanges outside of China. The M&A Regulations took effect on September 8, 2006. Under the M&A Regulations, the approval of MOFCOM’s central office is required for any acquisition of a PRC domestic enterprise by a foreign investor established or controlled by a PRC person associated with the PRC domestic enterprise. The M&A Regulations further prohibit the use of equity of a foreign investor whose shares are traded on an over-the-counter market as consideration in the acquisition of a PRC domestic enterprise. We believe that our issuance of equity to the shareholders of Creative Bellows and their designees, which was at the time of such issuance a PRC domestic enterprise, did not require the approval of MOFCOM because it was not in consideration for the acquisition of a PRC domestic enterprise. We further believe that our acquisition of approximately 87% of Creative Bellows in August 2010, by which time Creative Bellows had been transformed into a Sino-foreign joint venture company, and our acquisition of the remaining minority interest in Creative Bellows in October 2010, was not governed by the M&A Regulations but rather by the 1997 Provisions on Changes in Equity Interest of Foreign Investment Enterprises, which do not require the approval of MOFCOM’s central office in connection with the acquisition of interests in a foreign-invested entity by a foreign investor owned in part by shareholders of the foreign-invested entity. Furthermore, in October 2010, we received approval to acquire the remaining minority interest in Creative Bellows from its shareholders for cash consideration. On October 27, 2010, pursuant to the Waiver and Release Agreements, the shareholders of Creative Bellows waived any right to receive any part of this cash consideration for their ownership interests in Creative Bellows in exchange for a mutual release of claims. Because the PRC regulatory approval of our acquisition of the remaining minority interest in Creative Bellows was based on the payment of cash as consideration for those ownership interests, it is unclear whether we must submit Creative Bellows’ WFOE application for reapproval by MOFCOM and SAFE, or at least notify MOFCOM of the change in consideration used. 29 Table of Contents The meaning of many of the provisions of the M&A Regulations is still unclear, and regulators have wide latitude in the enforcement of these and other relevant regulations. If MOFCOM subsequently determines that we should have obtained the approval of MOFCOM’s central office for any or all of the transactions described above, we may be subject to fines and penalties on our operations in China, have our operating privileges limited, have the payment or remittance of dividends paid by Creative Bellows delayed or restricted, or be subject to other regulatory or administrative actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our shares. The approval of the CSRC may be required under the M&A Regulations in connection with our acquisition of Creative Bellows and, if required, we cannot predict whether we will be able to obtain such approval. The M&A Regulations require that if an overseas company established or controlled by PRC domestic companies or citizens intends to acquire equity interests or assets of any other PRC domestic company affiliated with the PRC domestic companies or citizens, such acquisition must be submitted to MOFCOM for approval. In addition, this regulation requires that an overseas company controlled directly or indirectly by PRC companies or citizens and holding equity interests of PRC domestic companies needs to obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to listing its securities on an overseas stock exchange. On September 21, 2006, the CSRC published a notice on its official website specifying the documents and materials required to be submitted by overseas special purpose companies seeking the CSRC’s approval of their overseas listings. The application of the M&A Regulations remains unclear. We believe that we are not required to obtain the approval of the CSRC for the listing of our common stock in the U.S. equity markets because we are not an off-shore special purpose company, as defined in the M&A Regulations. If the CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency subsequently determines that approvals from MOFCOM or the CSRC were required for our acquisition of Creative Bellows, we may need to apply for a remedial approval from the CSRC and may be subject to certain administrative punishments or other sanctions from PRC regulatory agencies. The PRC regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, delay or restrict the repatriation of our foreign currency in our offshore bank accounts into the PRC, or take other actions that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our common stock. If MOFCOM or the CSRC later requires that we obtain its approval, we may be unable to obtain a waiver of such approval requirements, if and when procedures are established to obtain such a waiver. Any uncertainties or negative publicity regarding these approval requirements could materially and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Failure to register with the PRC foreign exchange authorities the cash payment for some of the equity of Creative Bellows that we acquired could have an adverse impact on our ability to transfer funds in or out of China. PRC law requires the registration with SAFE of any payments made by a foreign investor in exchange for the equity of a PRC domestic enterprise or foreign-invested enterprise. Because Bei Lv, Dianfu Lv, Wenge Chen and Wonderful Limited waived their right to receive any cash payments in connection with the transfer to us of their equity in Creative Bellows, no registration of a cash payment was possible or was made. We cannot assure you that SAFE will not view this as a failure to comply with PRC laws relating to foreign exchange and take actions that could delay or restrict our ability to transfer funds in or out of China in the future, or subject us to fines or penalties. Tax laws and regulations in China are subject to substantial revision, some of which may adversely affect our profitability. The PRC corporate tax regime continues to undergo substantial revision. Tax benefits that we presently enjoy may not be available to us in the wake of these changes, and we could incur tax obligations to the PRC government that are significantly higher than currently anticipated. These increased tax obligations could negatively affect our financial condition and our revenues, gross margins, profitability and results of operations may be adversely affected as a result. Certain tax treatment for which we are eligible in China is scheduled to expire over the next several years. As of October 2010, Creative Bellows has been classified as a “high technology enterprise” eligible for certain tax benefits, including a preferential 15% enterprise income tax rate instead of the standard 25% enterprise income tax rate. These tax benefits are retroactive for 2010 and any income tax we paid in 2010 under the higher standard rate either will be refunded to us or offset in future periods and recorded as income tax benefit. Our eligibility for the tax benefits lasts until December 31, 2012. When the tax benefits expire, and if our favorable tax treatment is not continued, our income tax expenses will increase, which will reduce our net income. 30 Table of Contents Under the Enterprise Income Tax Law, we are likely to be classified as a “resident enterprise” of China. Such classification will likely result in unfavorable tax consequences to us. China passed a new Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, and its implementing rules, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008. Under the EIT Law, an enterprise established outside of China with “de facto management bodies” within China is considered a “resident enterprise,” meaning that it must be treated as a PRC domestic enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes. The implementing rules of the EIT Law define de facto management as “substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise. On April 22, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation, or the SAT, issued the Notice Concerning Relevant Issues Regarding Cognizance of Chinese Investment Controlled Enterprises Incorporated Off-shore as Resident Enterprises pursuant to Criteria of de facto Management Bodies, or the Notice, further interpreting the application of the EIT Law and its implementation regarding non-PRC enterprise or group controlled off-shore entities. Pursuant to the Notice, an enterprise incorporated in an off-shore jurisdiction and controlled by a PRC enterprise or group will be classified as a “non-domestically incorporated resident enterprise” if: (i) its senior management in charge of daily operations reside or perform their duties mainly in China; (ii) its financial or personnel decisions are made or approved by bodies or persons in China; (iii) its substantial assets and properties, accounting books, corporate chops, board and shareholder minutes are kept in China; and (iv) at least half of its directors with voting rights or senior management often reside in China. A “resident enterprise” would be subject to an enterprise income tax rate of 25% on its worldwide income and must pay a withholding tax at a rate of 10% when paying dividends to its non-PRC shareholders. However, detailed measures on imposition of tax from non-domestically incorporated resident enterprises are not yet available. Therefore, it is unclear how tax authorities will determine tax residency based on the facts of each case. We may be deemed to be a “resident enterprise” by PRC tax authorities. If the PRC tax authorities determine that we are a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we may be subject to the enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. In our case, this would mean that income such as interest on financing proceeds and non-China source income would be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at a rate of 25%. Second, although under the EIT Law and its implementing rules dividends paid to us from our PRC subsidiaries would qualify as “tax-exempt income,” we cannot guarantee that such dividends will not be subject to a 10% withholding tax, as the PRC foreign exchange control authorities, which enforce the withholding tax, have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as “resident enterprises” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. Finally, it is possible that future guidance issued with respect to the new “resident enterprise” classification could result in a situation in which a 10% withholding tax is imposed on dividends we pay to our non-PRC shareholders and with respect to gains derived by our non-PRC shareholders from transferring our shares. If we were treated as a “resident enterprise” by PRC tax authorities, we would be subject to taxation in both the U.S. and China, and our PRC tax may not be creditable against our U.S. tax. Dividends distributed by us to our non-PRC resident shareholders may be subject to PRC withholding taxes. Before the EIT came into effect on January 1, 2008, dividends paid to foreign investors by foreign-invested enterprises, such as dividends paid to us by our subsidiaries in China, were exempt from PRC withholding tax. We are a Nevada holding company and substantially all of our income is derived from dividends we receive from our subsidiaries in China. Pursuant to the EIT, dividends generated after January 1, 2008, and distributed to us by our subsidiaries are subject to withholding tax at a rate of 5%, provided that we are determined by the relevant PRC tax authorities to be a “non-resident enterprise” under the EIT and hold at least 25% of the equity interest of our subsidiaries. If we are determined to be a “resident enterprise,” we cannot guarantee that such dividends will not be subject to a 10% withholding tax, as the PRC foreign exchange control authorities, which enforce the withholding tax, have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as “resident enterprises” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. In addition, it is possible that future guidance issued with respect to the new “resident enterprise” classification could result in a situation in which a 10% withholding tax is imposed on dividends we pay to our non-PRC shareholders and with respect to gains derived by our non-PRC shareholders from transferring our shares. 31 Table of Contents On October 27, 2009, the SAT promulgated “Notice on How to Understand and Determine the Beneficial Owners in Tax Agreement,” or SAT Circular 601, which provides guidance for determining whether a resident of a contracting state is the “beneficial owner” of an item of income under China’s tax treaties and tax arrangements. According to SAT Circular 601, a beneficial owner generally must be engaged in substantive business activities. An agent or conduit company will not be regarded as a beneficial owner and, therefore, will not qualify for treaty benefits. The agent or conduit company normally refers to a company that is registered in a jurisdiction other than China and merely meets the minimum legal requirements on organizational form and is not engaged in substantive operational activities for manufacturing, distribution or management. It is still unclear how SAT Circular 601 is implemented by SAT or its local counterparts in practice and whether we could be recognized as a “beneficial owner.” If we are deemed a non-resident enterprise but not qualified as a beneficial owner, we will not be entitled to a reduced 5% withholding tax and the 10% withholding tax would be imposed on our dividend income received from our subsidiaries. As a result, our net income would be reduced and our operating results would be adversely affected. Our compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, may put us at a competitive disadvantage, while our failure to comply with the FCPA may result in substantial penalties. We are required to comply with the FCPA, which prohibits U.S. companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Although we inform our personnel that such practices are illegal, we cannot assure you that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties. Non-U.S. companies, including some of our competitors, are not subject to the provisions of the FCPA. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time to time in mainland China. If our competitors engage in these practices, they may receive preferential treatment from personnel of some companies, giving our competitors an advantage in securing business or from government officials who might give them priority in obtaining new licenses, which would put us at a disadvantage. Risks Related to Our Securities The market price for our common stock may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include, but not limited to, our quarterly operating results or the operating results of other companies in our industry, announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, new products, product improvements, commercial relationships, intellectual property, legal, regulatory or other business developments and changes in financial estimates or recommendations by stock market analysts regarding us or our competitors. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for companies based in China in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated or disproportionate to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may materially affect our stock price, regardless of our operating results. Furthermore, the market for our common stock historically has been limited and we cannot assure you that a larger market will ever be developed or maintained. The price at which investors purchase shares of our common stock may not be indicative of the price that will prevail in the trading market. Market fluctuations and volatility, as well as general economic, market and political conditions, could reduce our market price. As a result, these factors may make it more difficult or impossible for you to sell our common stock for a positive return on your investment. Shares of our common stock lack a significant trading market. Shares of our common stock are not eligible for trading on any national securities exchange. Our common stock is qualified for quotation on the OTCQB and trades in the over-the-counter markets, or in what are commonly referred to as “pink sheets.” However, there is no active market for our common stock at this time. These over-the-counter markets are highly illiquid. There is no assurance that an active trading market in our common stock will develop, or if such a market develops, that it will be sustained. In addition, there is a greater chance for market volatility for securities quoted on the OTCQB or pink sheets as opposed to securities traded on a national securities exchange. This volatility may be caused by a variety of factors, including the lack of readily available quotations, the absence of consistent administrative supervision of “bid” and “ask” quotations and generally lower trading volume. As a result, an investor may find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of, our common stock, or to obtain coverage for significant news events concerning us, and the common stock could become substantially less attractive for margin loans, for investment by financial institutions, as consideration in future capital raising transactions or for other purposes. 32 Table of Contents Future sales of shares of our common stock by our shareholders could cause our stock price to decline. Future sales of shares of our common stock could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our stock. If our significant shareholders sell a large number of shares, or if we issue a large number of shares, the market price of our stock could decline. Moreover, the perception in the public market that shareholders might sell shares of our stock could depress the market for our shares. Our directors and executive officers and certain of our other shareholders who received shares of our common stock issued pursuant to the Share Exchange Agreement are subject to lockup agreements that prohibit their sale of all shares of our common stock held currently or acquired by them in the future to the general public until December 15, 2013, except in the event of a change of control or sale of our company. Upon the termination of these lockup agreements, if such shareholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, such sales could create a circumstance commonly referred to as an “overhang,” in anticipation of which the market price of our common stock could fall. The existence of an overhang, whether or not sales have occurred or are occurring, also could make it more difficult for us to raise additional financing through the sale of equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price we deem reasonable or appropriate. We may issue additional shares of our capital stock to raise capital or complete acquisitions, which would reduce the equity interest of our shareholders. Our Articles of Incorporation authorize the issuance of 100,000,000 shares of common stock and 100,000,000 shares of preferred stock. As of December 31, 2012, there were 72,215,868 authorized and unissued shares of our common stock available for future issuance, based on 24,982,822 shares of our common stock outstanding and our reservation of 2,801,310 shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding warrants and options, and 100,000,000 authorized and unissued shares of our preferred stock available for future issuance. Although we have no commitments as of the date of this report to issue our securities, we may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock to complete a business combination or to raise capital. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock may significantly reduce the equity interest of our existing shareholders and adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. The application of the “penny stock” rules could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and increase your transaction costs to sell those shares. Our common stock may be subject to the “penny stock” rules adopted under Section 15(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act. The penny stock rules apply to issuers whose common stock does not trade on a national securities exchange and trades at less than $5.00 per share, or that have a tangible net worth of less than $5,000,000 ($2,000,000 if the company has been operating for three or more years). The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from those rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document prepared by the SEC that contains the following information: · a description of the nature and level of risk in the market for penny stocks in both public offerings and secondary trading; · a description of the broker’s or dealer’s duties to the customer and of the rights and remedies available to the customer with respect to violation to such duties or other requirements of securities laws; · a brief, clear, narrative description of a dealer market, including “bid” and “ask” prices for penny stocks and the significance of the spread between the “bid” and “ask” prices; · a toll free telephone number for inquiries on disciplinary actions; · definitions of any significant terms in the disclosure document or in the conduct of trading in penny stocks; and · such other information and is in such form (including language, type, size and format), as the SEC shall require by rule or regulation. Prior to effecting any transaction in a penny stock, the broker-dealer also must provide the customer with the following information: · bid and offer quotations for the penny stock; · compensation of the broker-dealer and our salesperson in the transaction; · number of shares to which such bid and ask prices apply, or other comparable information relating to the depth and liquidity of the market for such stock; and · monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. The penny stock rules further require that, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from those rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written acknowledgment of the receipt of a risk disclosure statement, a written agreement to transactions involving penny stocks and a signed and dated copy of a written suitability statement. 33 Table of Contents Due to the requirements of the penny stock rules, many broker-dealers have decided not to trade penny stocks. As a result, the number of broker-dealers willing to act as market makers in such securities is limited. If we remain subject to the penny stock rules for any significant period, it could have an adverse effect on the market, if any, for our securities. Moreover, if our securities are subject to the penny stock rules, investors will find it more difficult to dispose of our securities. We have not paid dividends in the past and do not expect to pay dividends in the future. Any return on investment may be limited to the value of our common stock. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends on our common stock will depend on earnings, financial condition and other business and economic factors affecting it at such time as the Board of Directors may consider relevant. Furthermore, China has currency and capital transfer regulations that require us to comply with complex regulations for the movement of capital and restrict the amount of capital available for distribution as dividends. See “Risks Related to Our Business – We are a holding company that depends on cash flow from our wholly owned subsidiaries to meet our obligations.” Although our management believes that we are in compliance with these regulations, should these regulations or their interpretation by PRC courts or regulatory agencies change, we may not be able to pay dividends to our shareholders outside of China. Our management intends to follow a policy of retaining all of our earnings to finance the development and execution of our strategy and the expansion of our business. If we do not pay dividends, our common stock may be less valuable because a return on your investment will occur only if our stock price appreciates. Our principal shareholder has the ability to exert significant control in matters requiring a shareholder vote and could delay, deter or prevent a change of control in our company. As of December 31, 2012, Bei Lv, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and our largest shareholder, owned approximately 37.5% of our outstanding common stock. Ms. Lv exerts significant influence over us, giving her the ability, among other things, to exercise significant control over the election of all or a majority of the Board of Directors and to approve significant corporate transactions. Such stock ownership and control may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a future change in control, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. Without the consent of Ms. Lv, we could be prevented from entering into potentially beneficial transactions if they conflict with our principal shareholder’s interests. The interests of Ms. Lv may differ from the interests of our other shareholders. Provisions in our Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws could make it very difficult for you to bring any legal actions against our directors or officers for violations of their fiduciary duties or could require us to pay any amounts incurred by our directors or officers in any such actions. Pursuant to our Articles of Incorporation, members of our Board of Directors and our officers will have no liability for breaches of their fiduciary duty of care as a director or officer, except in limited circumstances. Accordingly, you may be unable to prevail in a legal action against our directors or officers even if they have breached their fiduciary duty of care. In addition, our Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws allow us to indemnify our directors and officers from and against any and all costs, charges and expenses resulting from their acting in such capacities with us. This means if you were able to enforce an action against our directors or officers, in all likelihood, we would be required to pay any expenses they incurred in defending the lawsuit and any judgment or settlement they otherwise would be required to pay. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 