ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS Any investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Potential investors should carefully consider the material risks described below and all of the information contained in this Form 10-K before deciding whether to purchase any of our securities. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by these risks if any of them actually occur. Some of these factors have affected our financial condition and operating results in the past or are currently affecting our company. This filing also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced described below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Risks Related To Our Operations Jewelry purchases are discretionary, may be particularly affected by adverse trends in the general economy, and an economic decline will make it more difficult to generate revenue. The success of our operations depends to a significant extent upon a number of factors relating to discretionary consumer spending in China. These factors include economic conditions and perceptions of such conditions by consumers, employment rates, the level of consumers’ disposable income, business conditions, interest rates, consumer debt levels, availability of credit and levels of taxation in regional and local markets in China where we manufacture and sell our products. There can be no assurance that consumer spending on jewelry will not be adversely affected by changes in general economic conditions in China and globally. While the Chinese economy has experienced rapid growth in recent years, such growth has been uneven among various sectors of the economy and in different geographical areas of the country. Also, many observers believe that this rapid growth cannot continue at its current pace and that an economic correction may be imminent. Rapid economic growth can also lead to growth in the money supply and rising inflation. During the past two decades, the rate of inflation in China has been as high as approximately 20% and China has experienced deflation as low as minus 2%. If prices for our products rise at a rate that is insufficient to compensate for the rise in the costs of supplies such as raw materials, it may have an adverse effect on our profitability. In order to control inflation in the past, the PRC government has imposed controls on bank credits, limits on loans for fixed assets and restrictions on state bank lending. The implementation of such policies may impede economic growth. In October 2004, the People’s Bank of China, the PRC’s central bank, raised interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade and indicated in a statement that the measure was prompted by inflationary concerns in the Chinese economy. During 2007, the interest rate was increased from 5.67% to 7.83%. Repeated rises in interest rates by the central bank could slow economic activity in China which could, in turn, materially increase our costs and also reduce demand for our products. Most of our sales are of products that include gold, platinum, precious metals and other commodities, and fluctuations in the availability and pricing of commodities would adversely impact our ability to obtain and produce products at favorable prices. The jewelry industry generally is affected by fluctuations in the price and supply of diamonds, gold, platinum and, to a lesser extent, other precious and semi-precious metals and stones. In the past, we have not hedged our requirement for gold, platinum or other raw materials through the use of options, forward contracts or outright commodity purchasing, but we commenced to engage in such hedging in the fourth quarter of 2007. A significant disruption in our supply of gold, platinum, or other commodities could decrease our production and shipping levels, materially increase our operating costs and materially adversely affect our profit margins. Shortages of gold, platinum, or other commodities, or interruptions in transportation systems, labor strikes, work stoppages, war, acts of terrorism, or other interruptions to or difficulties in the employment of labor or transportation in the markets in which we purchase our raw materials, may adversely affect our ability to maintain production of our products and sustain profitability. Although we generally attempt to pass increased commodity prices to our customers, there may be circumstances in which we are not able to do so. In addition, if we were to experience a significant or prolonged shortage of gold, platinum, or other commodities, we would be unable to meet our production schedules and to ship products to our customers in timely fashion, which would adversely affect our sales, margins and customer relations. Furthermore, the value of our inventory may be affected by commodity prices. We record the value of our inventory at the lower of cost (using the first-in, first-out method) or market. As a result, decreases in the market value of precious metals such as gold and platinum would result in a lower stated value of our inventory, which may require us to take a charge for the decrease in the value of our inventory. Due to the geographic concentration of our sales in the northeast region of China, our results of operations and financial condition are subject to fluctuations in regional economic conditions. A significant percentage of our total sales are made in the northeast region of China, particularly in the provinces of Liaoning, Jilin and Heilongjiang, and the city of Beijing. For the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, approximately 51.1% and 44.9% of revenues, respectively, was generated from this area. Our concentration of sales in this area heightens our exposure to adverse developments related to competition, as well as economic and demographic changes in this region. Our geographic concentration might result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations in the future. 8 Our retail expansion strategy depends on our ability to open and operate a certain number of new counters and stores each year, which could strain our resources and cause the performance of our existing operations to suffer. We have historically been engaged only in the manufacture and wholesale distribution of jewelry products and have only recently begun retail operations. Our retail expansion strategy will largely depend on our ability to find sites for, open and operate new retail locations successfully. Our ability to open and operate new retail locations successfully depends on several factors, including, among others, our ability to: · identify suitable counter and store locations, the availability of which is outside our control; · purchase and negotiate acceptable lease terms; · prepare counters and stores for opening within budget; · source sufficient levels of inventory at acceptable costs to meet the needs of new counters and stores; · hire, train and retain personnel; · secure required governmental permits and approvals; · successfully integrate new counters and stores into our existing operations; · contain payroll costs; and · generate sufficient operating cash flows or secure adequate capital on commercially reasonable terms to fund our expansion plans. Any failure to successfully open and operate new retail counters and stores could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, our retail expansion program will place increased demands on our operational, managerial and administrative resources. These increased demands could cause us to operate our business less effectively, which, in turn, could cause deterioration in the financial performance of our overall business. It is not our intention to open new retail counters and stores that materially cannibalize the sales of our existing distributors. However, as with most growing retail operations, there can be no assurance that sales cannibalization will not inadvertently occur or become more significant in the future as we gradually increase our presence in existing markets over time to maximize our competitive position and financial performance in each market. Competition in the jewelry industry could cause us to lose market share, thereby materially adversely affecting our business, results of operations and financial condition. The jewelry industry in China is highly fragmented and very competitive. We believe that the market may become even more competitive as the industry grows and/or consolidates. We compete with local jewelry manufacturers and large foreign multinational companies that offer products that are similar to ours. Some of these competitors have larger local or regional customer bases, more locations, more brand equity, and substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. As a result of this increasing competition, we could lose market share, thereby materially adversely affecting our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may need to raise additional funds in the future. These funds may not be available on acceptable terms or at all, and, without additional funds, we may not be able to maintain or expand our business. We believe that we will have sufficient capital to fund our projected operations for at least the next 12 months. We expect to expend significant resources to commence our retail distribution of our manufactured jewelry in China. We will require substantial funds in order to finance our retail distribution, fund operating expenses, to develop manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities and to cover public company costs. In addition to the funds required to open retail locations, additional working capital will be needed to operate retail locations due to longer sales and collection cycles and higher inventory levels required to support retail stores. We also expect to require substantial funds to change our product mix to include more platinum products. Without these funds, we may not be able to meet these goals. Also, we expect our general and administrative costs to substantially increase due to higher salaries to be paid to our executive officers. See “Executive Compensation — Compensation Discussion and Analysis.” 9 We may seek additional funding through public or private financing or through collaborative arrangements with strategic partners. You should also be aware that in the future: · We cannot be certain that additional capital will be available on favorable terms, if at all; · Any available additional financing may not be adequate to meet our goals; and · Any equity financing would result in dilution to stockholders. If we cannot raise additional funds when needed, or on acceptable terms, we may not be able to effectively execute our growth strategy (including expanding our business to the retail market), take advantage of future opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements. In addition, we may be required to scale back or discontinue our production and development program, or obtain funds through strategic alliances that may require us to relinquish certain rights. Our ability to maintain or increase our revenue could be harmed if we are unable to strengthen and maintain our brand image. We believe that primary factors in determining customer buying decisions in China’s jewelry sector include price, confidence in the merchandise sold, and the level and quality of customer service. The ability to differentiate our products from competitors by our brand-based marketing strategies is a key factor in attracting consumers, and if our strategies and efforts to promote our brand, such as television and magazine advertising and beauty contest sponsorships, fail to garner brand recognition, our ability to generate revenue may suffer. If we are unable to differentiate our products, our ability to sell our products wholesale and our sale of products retail will be adversely affected. If we fail to anticipate, identify or react appropriately or in a timely manner to customer buying decisions, we could experience reduced consumer acceptance of our products, a diminished brand image, higher markdowns, and costs to recast overstocked jewelry. These factors could result in lower selling prices and sales volumes for our products, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. This risk is particularly acute because we rely on a limited demographic customer base for a large percentage of our sales. There is only one source in China for us to obtain the precious metals used in our jewelry products; accordingly, any interruptions of our arrangement with this source would disrupt our ability to fill customer orders and substantially affect our ability to continue our business operations. Under PRC law, supply of precious metals such as platinum, gold, and silver are highly regulated by certain government agencies. Shanghai Gold Exchange is the only authorized source of supply in China for precious metals used in our jewelry products. We are required to obtain several membership and approval certificates from government agencies in order to do business involving precious metals. We may be required to renew such memberships and to obtain approval certificates periodically. The loss of or inability to renew our membership relationship with the Shanghai Gold Exchange, or its inability to furnish precious metals to us as anticipated in terms of cost, quality, and timeliness, would adversely affect our ability to fill customer orders in accordance with our required delivery, quality, and performance requirements. If this were to occur, we would not have any alternative suppliers in China to obtain our raw materials from, which would result in a decline in revenue and revenue potential and risk the continuation of our business operations. If we are not able to adapt to changing jewelry trends in China, our inventory may be overstocked and we may be forced to reduce the price of our overstocked jewelry or incur the cost to recast it into new jewelry. We depend on consumer fashions, preferences for jewelry and the demand for particular products in China. Jewelry design trends in China can change rapidly, as evidenced by the recent increase in the consumption of platinum jewelry in the Chinese market. The ability to predict accurately future changes in taste, respond to changes in consumer preferences, carry the inventory demanded by customers, deliver the appropriate quality, price products correctly and implement effective purchasing procedures, all have an important influence on determining sales performance and achieved gross margin. If we fail to anticipate, identify or react appropriately to changes in styles and trends, we could experience excess inventories, higher than normal markdowns or an inability to sell our products. If such a situation exists, we may need to incur additional costs to recast our products to fit the demand, recovering only the value of raw material and all labor invested in the product would be lost. 10 Our failure to manage growth effectively could have an adverse effect on our employee efficiency, product quality, working capital levels, and results of operations. We intend to conduct a growth strategy into retail distribution of our products that we believe will result in rapid growth, which will place significant demands on our managerial, operational and financial resources. Any significant growth in the market for our current wholesale business and our planned retail distribution would require us to expand our employee base for managerial, operational, financial, and other purposes. During any growth, we may face problems related to our operational and financial systems and controls, including quality control and delivery and service capabilities. We would also need to continue to expand, train and manage our employee base. We currently have approximately 540 employees, which include approximately 350 company-trained workers and 60 production trainees, and, at that size, a rapid increase in the number of our employees would be difficult to manage. Continued future growth will impose significant added responsibilities upon the members of management to identify, recruit, maintain, integrate, and motivate new employees. If we are able to expand our retail business, we would need to train or hire additional employees with retail experience. Aside from increased difficulties in the management of human resources, we may also encounter working capital issues, as we will need increased liquidity to finance the purchases of raw materials and supplies, development of new products, establishment of new retail stores, and the hiring of additional employees. Our failure to manage growth effectively may lead to operational and financial inefficiencies that will have a negative effect on our profitability. We cannot assure you that we will be able to timely and effectively meet that demand and maintain the quality standards required by our existing and potential customers. We rely on our distribution network for a significant portion of our revenues. Failure to maintain good distributor relations could materially disrupt our distribution business and harm our net revenues. Our business has become increasingly dependent on the performance of our distributors. During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005, 16%, 13%, and 10%, respectively, of our net revenues were generated through our distributors. We currently have 103 distributors. Our largest distributor accounted for approximately 7% and 4% of our gross revenues in 2007 and 2006. We do not maintain long-term contracts with our distributors. Maintaining relationships with existing distributors and replacing any distributor may be difficult or time consuming. Our failure to maintain good relationships with our distributors could materially disrupt our distribution business and harm our net revenues. We must maintain a relatively large inventory of our raw materials and jewelry products to support customer delivery requirements, and if this inventory is lost due to theft, our results of operations would be negatively impacted. We purchase large volumes of precious metals approximately five times per month and store significant quantities of raw materials and jewelry products at our warehouse and show room in Shenzhen, China. Although we have an inventory security system in place, in the past we have experienced minor inventory theft at, or in transit to or from, certain of these facilities. We may be subject to future significant inventory losses due to third-party or employee theft from our warehouses or other forms of theft. The implementation of security measures beyond those that we already utilize, which include metal detectors for employees, security cameras, and alarm systems in our warehouse, would increase our operating costs. Also, any such losses of inventory could exceed the limits of, or be subject to an exclusion from, coverage under our insurance policies. Claims filed by us under our insurance policies could lead to increases in the insurance premiums payable by us or the termination of coverage under the relevant policy. Substantial defaults by our customers on accounts receivable could have a material adverse affect on our liquidity and results of operations. A substantial portion of our working capital consists of accounts receivable from customers. If customers responsible for a significant amount of accounts receivable were to become insolvent or otherwise unable to pay for our products, or unable to make payments in a timely manner, our liquidity and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. An economic or industry downturn could materially adversely affect the servicing of these accounts receivable, which could result in longer payment cycles, increased collections costs and defaults in excess of management’s expectations. In addition, as we increase our presence in the retail market, we expect the aging of our accounts receivable generated from sales through retail counters to increase as department stores typically defer payments to us of cash receipts collected by them on our behalf. A significant deterioration in our ability to collect on accounts receivable could affect our cash flow and working capital position and could also impact the cost or availability of financing available to us. 11 We are dependent on certain key personnel and loss of these key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success is, to a certain extent, attributable to the management, sales and marketing, and operational and technical expertise of certain key personnel. Each of our named executive officers, including our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Yu Kwai Chong, performs key functions in the operation of our business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain these officers or that such personnel may not receive and/or accept competing offers of employment. The loss of a significant number of these employees could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We do not maintain key-man life insurance for any of our senior management. We have significant outstanding short-term borrowings, and we may not be able to obtain extensions when they mature. Our notes payable to banks for short-term borrowings as of December 31, 2007, December 31, 2006 were $17.1 million and $14.1 million, respectively, and bore weighted average interest rates of 6.68% and 6.14%, respectively. Generally, these short-term bank loans mature in one year or less and contain no specific renewal terms. However, in China it is customary practice for banks and borrowers to negotiate roll-overs or renewals of short-term borrowings on an on-going basis shortly before they mature. Although we have renewed our short-term borrowings in the past, we cannot assure you that we will be able to renew these loans in the future as they mature. In particular, a substantial portion of our short-term borrowings are arranged or guaranteed by Mr. Yu Kwai Chong, our controlling stockholder, or one of his affiliated companies. Since Mr. Chong ceased to be our sole stockholder in November 2006, he may be less inclined to guarantee our bank borrowings. If we are unable to obtain renewals of these loans or sufficient alternative funding on reasonable terms from banks or other parties, we will have to repay these borrowings with the cash on our balance sheet or cash generated by our future operations, if any. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to repay these borrowings. Our quarterly results may fluctuate because of many factors and, as a result, investors should not rely on quarterly operating results as indicative of future results. Fluctuations in operating results or the failure of operating results to meet the expectations of public market analysts and investors may negatively impact the value of our securities. Quarterly operating results may fluctuate in the future due to a variety of factors that could affect revenues or expenses in any particular quarter. Fluctuations in quarterly operating results could cause the value of our securities to decline. Investors should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of results of operations as an indication of future performance. As a result of the factors listed below, it is possible that in future periods results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. This could cause the market price of our securities to decline. Factors that may affect our quarterly results include: · vulnerability of our business to a general economic downturn in China; · fluctuation and unpredictability of costs related to the gold, platinum and precious metals and other commodities used to manufacture our products; · seasonality of our business; · changes in the laws of the PRC that affect our operations; · our recent entry into the retail jewelry market; · competition from our competitors; · our ability to obtain all necessary government certifications and/or licenses to conduct our business; and · development of a public trading market for our securities. Risks Related To Doing Business In China All of our assets are located in China and all of our revenues are derived from our operations in China, and changes in the political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a significant impact upon what business we may be able to conduct in the PRC and accordingly on the results of our operations and financial condition. Our business operations may be adversely affected by the current and future political environment in the PRC. The Chinese government exerts substantial influence and control over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. Our ability to operate in China may be adversely affected by changes in Chinese laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, raw materials, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. Under the current government leadership, the government of the PRC has been pursuing economic reform policies that encourage private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. There is no assurance, however, that the government of the PRC will continue to pursue these policies, or that it will not significantly alter these policies from time to time without notice. 12 Our operations are subject to PRC laws and regulations that are sometimes vague and uncertain. Any changes in such PRC laws and regulations, or the interpretations thereof, may have a material and adverse effect on our business. The PRC’s legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike the common law system prevalent in the United States, decided legal cases have little value as precedent in China. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including but not limited to the laws and regulations governing our business, or the enforcement and performance of our arrangements with customers in the event of the imposition of statutory liens, death, bankruptcy or criminal proceedings. The Chinese government has been developing a comprehensive system of commercial laws, and considerable progress has been made in introducing laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published cases and judicial interpretation and their lack of force as precedents, interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve significant uncertainties. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. Our principal operating subsidiary, Fuqi China, is considered a foreign invested enterprise under PRC laws, and as a result is required to comply with PRC laws and regulations, including laws and regulations specifically governing the activities and conduct of foreign invested enterprises. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations may have on our businesses. If the relevant authorities find us in violation of PRC laws or regulations, they would have broad discretion in dealing with such a violation, including, without limitation: · levying fines; · revoking our business license, other licenses or authorities; · requiring that we restructure our ownership or operations; and · requiring that we discontinue some or all of our business. A recent increase in the rate of inflation in the PRC could negatively affect our profitability and growth. While the PRC economy has experienced rapid growth, such growth has been uneven among various sectors of the economy and in different geographical areas of the country. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the money supply and rising inflation. According to the National Bureau of Statistics of China, the inflation rate in China reached a high point of 4.8% in 2007 as compared to the past several years. The inflation rate in China was 1.8% in 2005 and 1.5% in 2006. The inflation rate is expected to continue to increase in 2008. Many of our operating expenses were increased and are also expected to increase with inflation. If prices for our products rise at a rate that is insufficient to compensate for the rise in the costs of supplies, it may have an adverse effect on profitability. In order to control inflation in the past, the PRC government has imposed controls on bank credits, limits on loans for fixed assets and restrictions on state bank lending. The implementation of such policies may impede economic growth. The scope of our business license in China is limited, and we may not expand or continue our business without government approval and renewal, respectively. Our principal operating subsidiary, Fuqi China, is a wholly foreign-owned enterprise organized under PRC law, commonly known as a WFOE. A WFOE can only conduct business within its approved business scope, which ultimately appears on its business license. Our license permits us to design, manufacture, sell and market jewelry products to department stores throughout the PRC and to engage in the retail distribution of our products. Any amendment to the scope of our business requires further application and government approval. In order for us to expand our business beyond the scope of our license, we will be required to enter into a negotiation with the authorities for the approval to expand the scope of our business. We cannot assure you that Fuqi China will be able to obtain the necessary government approval for any change or expansion of our business scope. We will not be able to complete an acquisition of prospective acquisition targets in the PRC unless their financial statements are able to be reconciled to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles in a timely manner. Companies based in the PRC may not have properly kept financial books and records that may be reconciled with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. If we attempt to acquire a significant PRC target company and/or its assets, we would be required to obtain or prepare financial statements of the target that are prepared in accordance with and reconciled to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Federal securities laws require that a business combination meeting certain financial significance tests require the public acquirer to prepare and file historical and/or pro forma financial statement disclosure with the SEC. These financial statements must be prepared in accordance with, or be reconciled to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and the historical financial statements must be audited in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or PCAOB. If a proposed acquisition target does not have financial statements that have been prepared in accordance with, or that can be reconciled to, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and audited in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB, we will not be able to acquire that proposed acquisition target. These financial statement requirements may limit the pool of potential acquisition targets with which we may acquire and hinder our ability to expand our retail operations. Furthermore, if we consummate an acquisition and are unable to timely file audited financial statements and/or pro forma financial information required by the Exchange Act, such as Item 9.01 of Form 8-K, we will be ineligible to use the SEC’s short-form registration statement on Form S-3 to raise capital, if we are otherwise eligible to use a Form S-3. If we are ineligible to use a Form S-3, the process of raising capital may be more expensive and time consuming and the terms of any offering transaction may not be as favorable as they would have been if we were eligible to use Form S-3. 13 Recent PRC regulations relating to acquisitions of PRC companies by foreign entities may create regulatory uncertainties that could restrict or limit our ability to operate. Our failure to obtain the prior approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, for the listing and trading of our common stock could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, reputation and trading price of our common stock, and may also create uncertainties in the future. The PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or “SAFE,” issued a public notice in November 2005, known as Circular 75, concerning the use of offshore holding companies in mergers and acquisitions in China. The public notice provides that if an offshore company controlled by PRC residents intends to acquire a PRC company, such acquisition will be subject to registration with the relevant foreign exchange authorities. The public notice also suggests that registration with the relevant foreign exchange authorities is required for any sale or transfer by the PRC residents of shares in an offshore holding company that owns an onshore company. The PRC residents must each submit a registration form to the local SAFE branch with respect to their ownership interests in the offshore company, and must also file an amendment to such registration if the offshore company experiences material events, such as changes in the share capital, share transfer, mergers and acquisitions, spin-off transactions or use of assets in China to guarantee offshore obligations. On August 8, 2006, the PRC Ministry of Commerce (“MOFCOM”), joined by the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council, the State Administration of Taxation, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, the China Securities Regulatory Commission and SAFE, released a substantially amended version of the Provisions for Foreign Investors to Merge with or Acquire Domestic Enterprises (the “Revised M&A Regulations”), which took effect September 8, 2006. These new rules significantly revised China’s regulatory framework governing onshore-to-offshore restructurings and foreign acquisitions of domestic enterprises. These new rules signify greater PRC government attention to cross-border merger, acquisition and other investment activities, by confirming MOFCOM as a key regulator for issues related to mergers and acquisitions in China and requiring MOFCOM approval of a broad range of merger, acquisition and investment transactions. Further, the new rules establish reporting requirements for acquisition of control by foreigners of companies in key industries, and reinforce the ability of the Chinese government to monitor and prohibit foreign control transactions in key industries. Among other things, the revised M&A Regulations include new provisions that purport to require that an offshore special purpose vehicle, or SPV, formed for listing purposes and controlled directly or indirectly by PRC companies or individuals must obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to the listing and trading of such SPV’s securities on an overseas stock exchange. On September 21, 2006, the CSRC published on its official website procedures specifying documents and materials required to be submitted to it by SPVs seeking CSRC approval of their overseas listings. However, the application of this PRC regulation remains unclear with no consensus currently existing among the leading PRC law firms regarding the scope and applicability of the CSRC approval requirement. Our PRC counsel, Shujin Law Firm, has advised us that because we completed our onshore-to-offshore restructuring before September 8, 2006, the effective date of the new regulation, it is not necessary for us to submit the application to the CSRC for its approval, and the listing and trading of our common stock does not require CSRC approval. If the CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency subsequently determines that CSRC approval was required for our restructuring, we may face regulatory actions or other sanctions from the CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies. These regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our Common Stock. Also, if later the CSRC requires that we obtain its approval, we may be unable to obtain a waiver of the CSRC approval requirements, if and when procedures are established to obtain such a waiver. Any uncertainties and/or negative publicity regarding this CSRC approval requirement could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. Furthermore, published news reports in China recently indicated that the CSRC may have curtailed or suspended overseas listings for Chinese private companies. It is uncertain how our business operations or future strategy will be affected by the interpretations and implementation of Circular 75 and the Revised M&A Regulations. It is anticipated that application of the new rules will be subject to significant administrative interpretation, and we will need to closely monitor how MOFCOM and other ministries apply the rules to ensure that our domestic and offshore activities continue to comply with PRC law. Given the uncertainties regarding interpretation and application of the new rules, we may need to expend significant time and resources to maintain compliance. 14 Failure to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. As our ultimate holding company is a Delaware corporation, we are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with our company, are not subject to these prohibitions. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices may occur from time-to-time in the PRC. We can make no assurance, however, that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because our funds are held in banks which do not provide insurance, the failure of any bank in which we deposit our funds could affect our ability to continue in business. Banks and other financial institutions in the PRC do not provide insurance for funds held on deposit. A significant portion of our assets are in the form of cash deposited with banks in the PRC, and in the event of a bank failure, we may not have access to our funds on deposit. Depending upon the amount of money we maintain in a bank that fails, our inability to have access to our cash could impair our operations, and, if we are not able to access funds to pay our suppliers, employees and other creditors, we may be unable to continue in business. We had enjoyed certain preferential tax concessions and the loss of these preferential tax concessions may cause our tax liabilities to increase and our profitability to decline. Our subsidiary, Fuqi China, is subject to a reduced enterprise income tax rate of 15%, which is granted to all enterprises operating in the Shenzhen Special Economic Zone. In 2004 and 2005, Fuqi China enjoyed a preferential income tax rate of 7.5% due to its status as a new business. That status expired effective January 1, 2006. The expiration of the preferential tax treatment has increased our tax liabilities and reduced our profitability. Additionally, on March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress of China enacted a new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, under which foreign invested enterprises and domestic companies will be subject to enterprise income tax at a uniform rate of 25%. The new law will become effective on January 1, 2008. During the transition period for enterprises established before March 16, the tax rate will be gradually increased starting in 2008 and be equal to the new tax rate in 2012. We believe that our profitability will be negatively affected in the near future as a result of the new EIT Law. Any future increase in the enterprise income tax rate applicable to us or other adverse tax treatments could increase our tax liabilities and reduce our net income. If we make equity compensation grants to persons who are PRC citizens, they may be required to register with the State Administration of Foreign Exchange of the PRC, or SAFE. We may also face regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our ability to adopt additional equity compensation plans for our directors and employees and other parties under PRC law. On April 6, 2007, SAFE issued the “Operating Procedures for Administration of Domestic Individuals Participating in the Employee Stock Ownership Plan or Stock Option Plan of An Overseas Listed Company, also know as “Circular 78.” It is not clear whether Circular 78 covers all forms of equity compensation plans or only those which provide for the granting of stock options. For any plans which are so covered and are adopted by a non-PRC listed company, such as our company, after April 6, 2007, Circular 78 requires all participants who are PRC citizens to register with and obtain approvals from SAFE prior to their participation in the plan. In addition, Circular 78 also requires PRC citizens to register with SAFE and make the necessary applications and filings if they participated in an overseas listed company’s covered equity compensation plan prior to April 6, 2007. We believe that the registration and approval requirements contemplated in Circular 78 will be burdensome and time consuming. We intend to make numerous stock option grants under our equity incentive plan to our officers and directors, some of whom are PRC citizens and may be required to register with SAFE. In addition to our officers and directors that received option grants, future participants of our equity incentive plan or any other equity compensation plan we may adopt who are PRC citizens may be required to register with SAFE. If it is determined that any of our equity compensation plans are subject to Circular 78, failure to comply with such provisions may subject us and participants of our equity incentive plan who are PRC citizens to fines and legal sanctions and prevent us from being able to grant equity compensation to our PRC employees. In that case, our business operations may be adversely affected. Any recurrence of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, the Avian Flu, or another widespread public health problem in the PRC could adversely affect our operations. A renewed outbreak of SARS, the Avian Flu or another widespread public health problem in China, where all of our manufacturing facilities are located and where all of our sales occur, could have a negative effect on our operations. Our business is dependent upon our ability to continue to manufacture our products. Such an outbreak could have an impact on our operations as a result of: · quarantines or closures of our manufacturing facilities or the retail outlets, which would severely disrupt our operations, · the sickness or death of our key officers and employees, and · a general slowdown in the Chinese economy. Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could adversely affect our operations. 15 Because our business is located in the PRC, we may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls, which we are required to do in order to comply with U.S. securities laws. PRC companies have historically not adopted a Western style of management and financial reporting concepts and practices, which includes strong corporate governance, internal controls and, computer, financial and other control systems. Most of our middle and top management staff are not educated and trained in the Western system, and we may have difficulty hiring new employees in the PRC with such training. In addition, we may need to rely on a new and developing communication infrastructure to efficiently transfer our information from retail nodes to our headquarters. As a result of these factors, we may experience difficulty in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet Western standards. Therefore, we may, in turn, experience difficulties in implementing and maintaining adequate internal controls as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. This may result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls, which could impact the reliability of our financial statements and prevent us from complying with SEC rules and regulations and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any such deficiencies, weaknesses or lack of compliance could have a materially adverse effect on our business. You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based upon U.S. laws, including the federal securities laws, or other foreign laws against us or our management. All of our current operations, including the manufacturing and distribution of jewelry, are conducted in China. Moreover, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of China. All or substantially all of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States and in the PRC. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon these persons. In addition, uncertainty exists as to whether the courts of China would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or such officers and/or directors predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof, or be competent to hear original actions brought in China against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof. Risks Related To Our Capital Structure We are controlled by one stockholder, whose interests may differ from those of other stockholders. As a result, we could be prevented from entering into potentially beneficial transactions if they conflict with our major stockholder’s interests. As of December 31, 2007, Mr. Yu Kwai Chong, our Chief Executive Officer and our largest stockholder, beneficially owns or control approximately 53.4% of our outstanding shares. Mr. Chong possesses significant influence over us, giving him the ability, among other things, to elect all or a majority of the Board of Directors and to approve significant corporate transactions. Such stock ownership and control may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a future change in control, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. Without the consent of Mr. Chong, we could be prevented from entering into potentially beneficial transactions if they conflict with our major stockholder’s interests. The interests of this stockholder may differ from the interests of our other stockholders. Our stock price is volatile and you might not be able to resell your securities at or above the price you have paid. Since our initial public offering and listing of our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market on October 23, 2007, the price at which our common stock had traded has been volatile, with a high and low sales price of $11.75 and $6.02, respectively, as through March 20, 2008. You might not be able to sell the shares of our common stock at or above the price you have paid. The stock market has experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the performance of its listed companies. Moreover, only a limited number of our shares are traded each day, which could increase the volatility of the price of our stock. These market fluctuations might cause our stock price to fall regardless of our performance. The market price of our common stock might fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including the following: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our annual and quarterly results of operations; · changes in securities analysts’ expectations; · variations in our operating results, which could cause us to fail to meet analysts’ or investors’ expectations; · announcements by our competitors or us of significant new products, contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · conditions and trends in our industry; · general market, economic, industry and political conditions; · changes in market values of comparable companies; 16 · additions or departures of key personnel; · stock market price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels; and · future sales of equity or debt securities, including sales which dilute existing investors. The sale or availability for sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect its market price. The market price of our Common Stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. As of March 15, 2008, we had 20,924,843 shares of Common Stock outstanding, and approximately 9,740,000 were freely tradable without further restriction under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, by persons other than our affiliates (within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act). In addition, our certificate of incorporation permits the issuance of up to approximately 79,075,157 additional shares of common stock. Thus, we have the ability to issue substantial amounts of common stock in the future, which would dilute the percentage ownership held by the existing investors. In connection with the public offering that we conducted on October 23, 2007, in which we issued 7,033,816 shares of freely tradable common stock, we, each of our directors and senior officers, and each holder of 5% or more of our common stock agreed, with limited exceptions, that we and they will not, without the prior written consent of the offering’s underwriter, through April 20, 2008, among other things, directly or indirectly, offer to sell, sell or otherwise dispose of any of shares of our common stock or file a registration statement with the SEC. After the lock-up agreements, up to 11,184,066 of the shares that had been locked up will be eligible for future sale in the public market at prescribed times pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act, or otherwise, sales of a significant number of these shares of common stock in the public market could reduce the market price of the common stock. Further, effective February 15, 2008, the SEC revised Rule 144, which provides a safe harbor for the resale of restricted securities, shortening applicable holding periods and easing other restrictions and requirements for resales by our non-affiliates, thereby enabling an increased number of our outstanding restricted securities to be resold sooner in the public market. Sales of substantial amounts of our stock at any one time or from time to time by the investors to whom we have issued them, or even the availability of these shares for sale, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, the price of our common stock may be adversely affected. We are required to establish and maintain appropriate internal controls over financial reporting. Failure to establish those controls, or any failure of those controls once established, could adversely impact our public disclosures regarding our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any failure of these controls could also prevent us from maintaining accurate accounting records and discovering accounting errors and financial frauds. Rules adopted by the SEC pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 require annual assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, and attestation of this assessment by our company’s independent registered public accountants. The SEC extended the compliance dates for non-accelerated filers, as defined by the SEC. Accordingly, we believe that the annual assessment of our internal controls requirement will first apply to our annual report for the 2007 fiscal year and the attestation requirement of management’s assessment by our independent registered public accountants will first apply to our annual report for the 2008 fiscal year. The standards that must be met for management to assess the internal control over financial reporting as effective are new and complex, and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards. We may encounter problems or delays in completing activities necessary to make an assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the attestation process by our independent registered public accountants will be new to us and we may encounter problems or delays in completing the implementation of any requested improvements and receiving an attestation of our assessment by our independent registered public accountants. If we cannot assess our internal control over financial reporting as effective, or our independent registered public accountants are unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on such assessment, investor confidence and share value may be negatively impacted. In addition, management’s assessment of internal controls over financial reporting may identify weaknesses and conditions that need to be addressed in our internal controls over financial reporting or other matters that may raise concerns for investors. Any actual or perceived weaknesses and conditions that need to be addressed in our internal control over financial reporting, disclosure of management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting, or disclosure of our public accounting firm’s attestation to or report on management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting may have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. Our public accountants, Stonefield Josephson, Inc., identified that our accounting for certain significant transactions were incorrectly calculated or incorrectly recorded. Our public accountants informed us that these adjustments reflected significant deficiencies in our internal controls over accounting and financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2007. We are in the process of improving our internal controls in an effort to improve our control processes and procedures; however, there can be no guarantee that we will be successful in our attempts to correct our significant deficiencies. 17 Restrictions on the convertibility of RMB into foreign currency may limit our ability to make dividends or other payments in U.S. dollars or fund possible business activities outside China. All of our net revenues are currently generated in RMB. Any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use net revenues generated in RMB to make dividends or other payments in U.S. dollars or fund possible business activities outside China. Although the PRC government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of RMB for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign-invested enterprises may only buy, sell and/or remit foreign currencies at those banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange business after providing valid commercial documents. In addition, remittance of foreign currencies abroad and conversion of RMB for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to government approval in China, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot assure you the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of RMB, especially with respect to foreign exchange transactions. Because our revenues are generated in RMB and our results are reported in U.S. dollars, devaluation of the RMB could negatively impact our results of operations. The value of RMB is subject to changes in China’s governmental policies and to international economic and political developments. In January, 1994, the PRC government implemented a unitary managed floating rate system. Under this system, the People’s Bank of China, or PBOC, began publishing a daily base exchange rate with reference primarily to the supply and demand of RMB against the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies in the market during the previous day. Authorized banks and financial institutions are allowed to quote buy and sell rates for RMB within a specified band around the central bank’s daily exchange rate. On July 21, 2005, PBOC announced an adjustment of the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar to RMB from 1:8.27 to 1:8.11 and modified the system by which the exchange rates are determined. This modification has resulted in an approximate 9.93% appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar from July 21, 2005 to December 31, 2007. While the international reaction to the RMB revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in further fluctuations of the exchange rate of RMB against the U.S. dollar, including possible devaluations. As all of our net revenues are recorded in RMB, any future devaluation of RMB against the U.S. dollar could negatively impact our results of operations. We do not foresee paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future and, as a result, our investors sole source of gain, if any, will depend on capital appreciation, if any. We do not plan to declare or pay any further cash dividends on our shares of common stock in the foreseeable future and we currently intend to retain any future earnings for funding growth. Prior to the reverse merger we effected with VT Marketing Services, the predecessor of Fuqi International, Inc. (the “Reverse Merger”) in November 2006, we were wholly-owned by our founder and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Yu Kwai Chong. During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005, we paid cash dividends of $0, $2.7 million, and $5.4 million, respectively, to Mr. Chong as our sole stockholder prior to the Reverse Merger. We currently have no intention to declare further dividends in the foreseeable future. Payment of dividends is further restricted under the provisions of our existing loan agreements, which prohibit Fuqi China from paying any dividends or making any other distributions to Fuqi BVI without the consent of the lenders. As a result, you should not rely on an investment in our securities if you require the investment to produce dividend income. Capital appreciation, if any, of our shares may be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. Moreover, you may not be able to resell your shares in our company at or above the price you paid for them. 18 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 