ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” before making a decision to purchase or sell shares of our common stock. We cannot assure you that any of the events discussed in the risk factors below will not occur. These risks could have a material and adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects. If that were to happen, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations or financial condition. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our business is dependent on the success of a single drug candidate, emricasan, which will require significant additional clinical testing before we can seek regulatory approval and potentially launch commercial sales. Our future success depends on our ability to obtain regulatory approval for, and then successfully commercialize our only drug candidate, emricasan. We have not completed the development of any drug candidates, we currently generate no revenues from sales of any drugs, and we may never be able to develop a marketable drug. Emricasan will require additional clinical and non-clinical development, regulatory review and approval in multiple jurisdictions, substantial investment, access to sufficient commercial manufacturing capacity and significant marketing efforts before we can generate any revenues from product sales. We are not permitted to market or promote emricasan before we receive regulatory approval from the United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, or comparable foreign regulatory authorities, and we may never receive such regulatory approvals. Our clinical development plan for emricasan includes a Phase 2b clinical trial in patients with acute-on-chronic liver failure, or ACLF, a Phase 2 clinical trial in patients with chronic liver failure, or CLF, a Phase 2b clinical trial in patients who have developed liver fibrosis post-orthotopic liver transplant, or POLT, due to hepatitis C virus, or HCV, infection and have subsequently achieved sustained viral response, or SVR, following anti-HCV therapy, or POLT-HCV-SVR, and a Phase 2 clinical trial in patients with non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, or NASH. The POLT-HCV-SVR trial alone will not be sufficient to support the filing of a new drug application, or NDA, in the United States; therefore at least one additional clinical trial will be required to support the filing of an NDA. We recently initiated the Phase 2b ACLF clinical trial and the Phase 2 non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, or NAFLD, and NASH clinical trial, and we expect to initiate the Phase 2 CLF clinical trial and the exploratory or pilot Phase 2b POLT-HCV-SVR clinical trial in the second half of 2014. There is no guarantee that these clinical trials will commence or be completed on time or at all, and the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may disagree with the design or implementation of our clinical trials. Even if such regulatory authorities agree with the design and implementation of our clinical trials, we cannot guarantee you that such regulatory authorities will not change their requirements in the future. In addition, even if the clinical trials are successfully completed, we cannot guarantee that the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities will interpret the results as we do, and more trials could be required before we submit emricasan for approval. To the extent that the results of the clinical trials are not satisfactory to the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities for support of a marketing application, approval of emricasan may be significantly delayed, or we may be required to expend significant additional resources, which may not be available to us, to conduct additional trials in support of potential approval of emricasan. We cannot anticipate when or if we will seek regulatory review of emricasan for any indication. We have not previously submitted an NDA to the FDA, or similar drug approval filings to comparable foreign authorities. An NDA must include extensive preclinical and clinical data and supporting information to establish the drug candidate’s safety and effectiveness for each desired indication. The NDA must also include significant information regarding the chemistry, manufacturing and controls for the product. Obtaining approval of an NDA 34 Table of Contents is a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process and may not be obtained. We have not received marketing approval for any drug candidate, and we cannot be certain that emricasan will be successful in clinical trials or receive regulatory approval for any indication. If we do not receive regulatory approvals for and successfully commercialize emricasan on a timely basis or at all, we may not be able to continue our operations. Even if we successfully obtain regulatory approvals to market emricasan, our revenues will be dependent, in part, on our ability to commercialize emricasan as well as the size of the markets in the territories for which we gain regulatory approval and have commercial rights. If the markets for the treatment of ACLF, CLF, POLT-HCV-SVR or NASH are not as significant as we estimate, our business and prospects will be harmed. Emricasan was the subject of a clinical hold imposed by the FDA while under development by Pfizer Inc. due to a preclinical observation. Although the clinical hold has been lifted, any adverse side effects or other safety risks associated with emricasan could delay or preclude approval of the drug candidate, cause us to suspend or discontinue our clinical trials or limit the commercial profile of emricasan. When we acquired emricasan from Pfizer in 2010, emricasan was on clinical hold in the United States due to an observation of inflammatory infiltrates in mice that Pfizer saw in a preclinical study and reported to the FDA in 2007. Pfizer performed additional preclinical studies attempting to characterize the nature of the inflammatory infiltrates, but did not carry out a formal carcinogenicity study to evaluate whether or not the infiltrates progressed to cancer. These infiltrates observed in mice were not observed in any other species. In 2008, Pfizer stopped work on the program. After acquiring emricasan, we conducted a thorough internal review of these studies, commissioned several independent experts to review the data and, based on guidance from the FDA, conducted a 6-month carcinogenicity study in the Tg.rasH2 transgenic mouse model, which is known to be predisposed toward tumor development. This study was completed in 2012. There was no evidence of drug-related tumorgenicity in our carcinogenicity study, and after further discussions with the FDA, we were cleared in January 2013 to proceed with our previously planned HCV-POLT clinical trial, formally lifting emricasan from clinical hold in the United States. Emricasan was never placed on clinical hold outside the United States. We cannot assure you that emricasan will not be placed on clinical hold in the future for similar or unrelated reasons. In addition, undesirable side effects caused by emricasan could result in the delay, suspension or termination of our clinical trials by us, the FDA or other regulatory authorities or institutional review boards, or IRBs, for a number of reasons. To date, over 500 subjects have received emricasan in Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials. The most commonly reported treatment-related adverse events in emricasan-treated subjects were upper abdominal pain, dizziness, headache, fatigue, nausea and diarrhea. Although most of the adverse events reported in relation to emricasan in these trials were mild to moderate, results of our anticipated future trials could reveal a high and unacceptable severity and prevalence of these or other side effects, including, potentially, more severe side effects. In such an event, our trials could be suspended or terminated and the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities could order us to cease further development of or deny approval of emricasan for any or all targeted indications. In addition, the drug-related side effects could affect patient recruitment or the ability of enrolled patients to complete the clinical trial or result in potential product liability claims. Even if regulatory authorities granted approval of emricasan, if adverse events caused regulatory authorities to impose a restrictive label or if physicians’ perceptions of emricasan’s safety caused them to limit their use of the drug, our ability to generate sufficient sales of emricasan could be limited. Any of these occurrences may harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations significantly. Clinical drug development involves uncertain outcomes, and results of earlier studies and trials may not be predictive of future trial results. Clinical testing is expensive and can take many years to complete, and its outcome is inherently uncertain. Failure can occur at any time during the clinical trial process. For example, in late 2011 we ceased clinical development of a drug candidate, CTS-1027, for which we had incurred approximately $31.3 million in research and development expenses prior to such time. The results of preclinical studies and early clinical trials of 35 Table of Contents emricasan may not be predictive of the results of later-stage clinical trials. Drug candidates in later stages of clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy traits despite having progressed through preclinical studies and initial clinical trials. A number of companies in the biopharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials due to lack of efficacy or safety profiles, notwithstanding promising results in earlier trials. Emricasan has been the subject of six Phase 1 and four Phase 2 clinical trials. Although we believe emricasan has demonstrated evidence of a beneficial effect in patients with chronic liver disease independent of the cause of disease, we are now seeking to evaluate emricasan in targeted indications within liver disease, including certain indications for which the safety and efficacy of emricasan have not been previously evaluated. Specifically, we recently initiated a Phase 2b ACLF clinical trial and a Phase 2 NAFLD/NASH clinical trial and expect to initiate a Phase 2b POLT-HCV-SVR clinical trial and a Phase 2 CLF clinical trial in the second half of 2014. The development program for emricasan to date has focused primarily on the treatment of HCV patients and the evaluation of the drug candidate in liver disease generally. We cannot be certain that any of our planned clinical trials will be successful, and failure in one indication may have negative consequences for the development of emricasan for other indications. For example, any safety concerns observed in our ACLF clinical trials could limit the prospects for regulatory approval for another indication such as POLT-HCV-SVR, CLF or NASH. Any such failure may harm our business, prospects and financial condition. The FDA regulatory approval process is lengthy and time-consuming, and if we experience significant delays in the clinical development and regulatory approval of emricasan, our business will be substantially harmed. We may experience delays in commencing and completing clinical trials of emricasan. For example, based on recent data regarding a new HCV antiviral being developed by Gilead Sciences, we chose to delay and change our previously planned Phase 2b/3 HCV-POLT clinical trial to a Phase 2b POLT-HCV-SVR clinical trial. We may also experience delays in commencing and completing other clinical trials of emricasan. We do not know whether planned clinical trials will begin on time, need to be redesigned, enroll patients on time or be completed on schedule, if at all. Although we recently initiated a Phase 2b ACLF clinical trial and a Phase 2 NAFLD/NASH clinical trial and are targeting the initiation of a Phase 2b POLT-HCV-SVR clinical trial and a Phase 2 CLF clinical trial in second half of 2014, any of our planned clinical trials may be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays related to: • the availability of financial resources for us to commence and complete our planned clinical trials; • reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations, or CROs, and clinical trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and clinical trial sites; • obtaining IRB approval at each clinical trial site; • obtaining regulatory approval for clinical trials in each country; • recruiting suitable patients to participate in a clinical trial; • having patients complete a clinical trial or return for post-treatment follow-up; • clinical trial sites deviating from trial protocol or dropping out of a trial; • adding new clinical trial sites; • developing one or more new formulations or routes of administration; or • manufacturing sufficient quantities of our drug candidate for use in clinical trials. Patient enrollment, a significant factor in the timing of clinical trials, is affected by many factors including the size and nature of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for 36 Table of Contents the clinical trial, the design of the clinical trial, competing clinical trials and clinicians’ and patients’ perceptions as to the potential advantages of the drug candidate being studied in relation to other available therapies, including any new drugs that may be approved for the indications we are investigating. In addition, significant numbers of patients who enroll in our clinical trials may drop out during the clinical trials as a result of being offered a liver transplant in the case of ACLF or CLF patients, a potential curative therapy or other reasons. For example, recent data regarding a new HCV antiviral being developed by Gilead Sciences suggesting the potential availability of a curative therapy for HCV infection in HCV-POLT patients has caused us to delay and change our previously planned Phase 2b/3 HCV-POLT clinical trial to a Phase 2b POLT-HCV-SVR clinical trial based on the analysis of the impact of such data on our ability to recruit and maintain patient compliance during the proposed two years of dosing with emricasan. We believe we have appropriately accounted for such increased risk of dropout rates in our trials when determining expected clinical trial timelines in our initiated Phase 2b ACLF clinical trial and Phase 2 NAFLD/NASH clinical trial and planned Phase 2 CLF clinical trial and Phase 2b POLT-HCV-SVR clinical trial, but we cannot assure you that our assumptions are correct, or that we will not experience higher numbers of dropouts than anticipated, which would result in the delay of completion of such trials beyond our expected timelines. We could encounter delays if physicians encounter unresolved ethical issues associated with enrolling patients in clinical trials of emricasan in lieu of prescribing existing treatments that have established safety and efficacy profiles. Further, a clinical trial may be suspended or terminated by us, the IRBs in the institutions in which such trials are being conducted, the Data Monitoring Committee for such trial, or by the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols, inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial site by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold, unforeseen safety issues or adverse side effects, failure to demonstrate a benefit from using a drug candidate, changes in governmental regulations or administrative actions or lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial. If we experience termination of, or delays in the completion of, any clinical trial of emricasan, the commercial prospects for emricasan will be harmed, and our ability to generate product revenues will be delayed. In addition, any delays in completing our clinical trials will increase our costs, slow down our product development and approval process and jeopardize our ability to commence product sales and generate revenues. Any of these occurrences may harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations significantly. Furthermore, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of emricasan. The clinical trials for emricasan involve a high degree of uncertainty and risk of failure, and some of our development activities involve indications with little or no previous drug candidate development activities as well as patient populations with critical illnesses and potential challenges for enrollment and participation in clinical trials. Our business involves the development of new drugs, which is a highly risky undertaking and involves a lengthy process and high degree of uncertainty. Some of our clinical trials for emricasan may involve indications and patient populations that have had little or no previous development activities by us or others in our industry. For example, to our knowledge the Phase 2b clinical trial in ACLF is the first clinical trial evaluating the effect of a small molecule in this patient population. In connection with clinical trials, we face risks that: • IRBs may delay approval of, or fail to approve, a clinical trial at a prospective site; • there may be a limited number of, and significant competition for, suitable patients for enrollment in the clinical trials, particularly in orphan populations such as ACLF; • there may be slower than expected rates of patient recruitment and enrollment; • patients may fail to complete the clinical trials; 37 Table of Contents • there may be an inability or unwillingness of patients or medical investigators to follow our clinical trial protocols; • there may be an inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment; • there may be termination of the clinical trials by one or more clinical trial sites; • unforeseen ethical or safety issues may arise; • conditions of patients may deteriorate rapidly or unexpectedly, which may cause the patients to become ineligible for a clinical trial or may prevent emricasan from demonstrating efficacy or safety; • patients may die or suffer other adverse effects for reasons that may or may not be related to emricasan being tested; • we may not be able to sufficiently standardize certain of the tests and procedures that are part of our clinical trials because such tests and procedures are highly specialized and involve a high degree of expertise; • emricasan may not prove to be efficacious in all or some patient populations; • the results of the clinical trials may not confirm the results of earlier trials; • the results of the clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the FDA or other regulatory agencies; and • emricasan may not have a favorable risk/benefit assessment in the disease areas studied. We cannot assure you that our ongoing clinical trials or any future clinical trial for emricasan will be started or completed on schedule, or at all. Any failure or significant delay in completing clinical trials for emricasan would harm the commercial prospects for emricasan and adversely affect our financial results. Difficulties and failures can occur at any stage of clinical development, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully complete the development and commercialization of emricasan in any indication. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval of emricasan, we will not be able to commercialize this drug candidate and our business will be adversely impacted. We have not obtained regulatory approval for any drug candidate. If we fail to obtain regulatory approval to market emricasan, our only drug candidate, we will be unable to sell emricasan, which will significantly impair our ability to generate any revenues. To receive approval, we must, among other things, demonstrate with substantial evidence from clinical trials that the drug candidate is both safe and effective for each indication for which approval is sought, and failure can occur in any stage of development. Satisfaction of the approval requirements typically takes several years and the time and money needed to satisfy them may vary substantially, based on the type, complexity and novelty of the pharmaceutical product. We have not commenced any Phase 3 clinical trials of emricasan to date, and we cannot predict if or when our planned clinical trials will generate the data necessary to support an NDA and if, or when, we might receive regulatory approvals for emricasan. Emricasan could fail to receive regulatory approval for many reasons, including the following: • the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may disagree with the design or implementation of our clinical trials; • we may be unable to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities that emricasan is safe and effective for any of its proposed indications; • the results of clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities for approval; • we may be unable to demonstrate that emricasan’s clinical and other benefits outweigh its safety risks; 38 Table of Contents • the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may disagree with our interpretation of data from preclinical studies or clinical trials; • the data collected from clinical trials of emricasan may not be sufficient to the satisfaction of the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities to support the submission of an NDA or other comparable submission in foreign jurisdictions or to obtain regulatory approval in the United States or elsewhere; • the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may fail to approve the manufacturing processes or facilities of third-party manufacturers with which we contract for clinical and commercial supplies; and • the approval policies or regulations of the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may significantly change in a manner rendering our clinical data insufficient for approval. This lengthy approval process as well as the unpredictability of future clinical trial results may result in our failure to obtain regulatory approval to market emricasan, which would significantly harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, even if we were to obtain approval, regulatory authorities may grant approval contingent on the performance of costly post-marketing clinical trials or the imposition of a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, or REMS, requiring substantial additional post-approval safety measures. Moreover, any approvals that we obtain may not cover all of the clinical indications for which we are seeking approval, or could contain significant limitations in the form of narrow indications, warnings, precautions or contra-indications with respect to conditions of use. In such event, our ability to generate revenues would be greatly reduced and our business would be harmed. Even if we obtain and maintain regulatory approval for emricasan in one jurisdiction, we may never obtain regulatory approval for emricasan in any other jurisdiction, which would limit our market opportunities and adversely affect our business. Obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval for emricasan in one jurisdiction does not guarantee that we will be able to obtain or maintain regulatory approval in any other jurisdiction. For example, even if the FDA grants marketing approval for a drug candidate, comparable regulatory authorities in foreign countries must also approve the manufacturing, marketing and promotion of the drug candidate in those countries. Approval procedures vary among jurisdictions and can involve requirements and administrative review periods different from, and greater than, those in the United States, including additional preclinical studies or clinical trials. In many countries outside the United States, a drug candidate must be approved for reimbursement before it can be approved for sale in that country. In some cases, the price that we intend to charge for our products is also subject to approval. We expect to submit a marketing authorization application, or MAA, to the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, for approval of emricasan in the EU. As with the FDA, obtaining approval of an MAA from the EMA is a similarly lengthy and expensive process and the EMA has its own procedures for approval of drug candidates. Even if a product is approved, the FDA or the EMA, as the case may be, may limit the indications for which the product may be marketed, require extensive warnings on the product labeling, require a REMS or require expensive and time-consuming clinical trials or reporting as conditions of approval. Regulatory authorities in countries outside of the United States and the EU also have requirements for approval of drug candidates with which we must comply prior to marketing in those countries. Obtaining foreign regulatory approvals and compliance with foreign regulatory requirements could result in significant delays, difficulties and costs for us and could delay or prevent the introduction of our products in certain countries. Further, clinical trials conducted in one country may not be accepted by regulatory authorities in other countries and regulatory approval in one country does not ensure approval in any other country, while a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory approval process in others. Also, regulatory approval for any drug candidate may be withdrawn. If we fail to comply with the regulatory requirements in international markets and/or receive applicable marketing approvals, our target market will be reduced and our ability to realize the full market potential of emricasan will be harmed, which would adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 39 Table of Contents Even if we receive regulatory approval for emricasan, we will be subject to ongoing regulatory obligations and continued regulatory review, which may result in significant additional expense. Additionally, emricasan, if approved, could be subject to labeling and other restrictions and market withdrawal and we may be subject to penalties if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements or experience unanticipated problems with emricasan. Any regulatory approvals that we receive for emricasan may be subject to limitations on the approved indicated uses for which emricasan may be marketed or to the conditions of approval, or contain requirements for potentially costly post-marketing testing, including Phase 4 clinical trials, and surveillance to monitor the safety and efficacy of the drug candidate. The FDA may also require a REMS in order to approve emricasan, which could entail requirements for a medication guide, physician communication plans or additional elements to ensure safe use, such as restricted distribution methods, patient registries and other risk minimization tools. In addition, if the FDA or a comparable foreign regulatory authority approves emricasan, the manufacturing processes, labeling, packaging, distribution, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion, import, export and recordkeeping for emricasan will be subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements. These requirements include submissions of safety and other post-marketing information and reports, registration, as well as continued compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMPs, and current good clinical practices, or cGCPs, for any clinical trials that we conduct post-approval. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with emricasan, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or with our third-party manufacturers or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in, among other things: • restrictions on the marketing or manufacturing of emricasan, withdrawal of the product from the market, or voluntary or mandatory product recalls; • fines, warning letters or holds on clinical trials; • refusal by the FDA to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us or suspension or revocation of license approvals; • product seizure or detention, or refusal to permit the import or export of emricasan; and • injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. The FDA’s and other regulatory authorities’ policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent, limit or delay regulatory approval of emricasan. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If we are slow or unable to adapt to changes in existing requirements or the adoption of new requirements or policies, or if we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we may lose any marketing approval that we may have obtained and we may not achieve or sustain profitability, which would adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for emricasan, the product may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, tertiary care centers, transplant centers and others in the medical community. If emricasan is approved for commercialization, its acceptance will depend on a number of factors, including: • the clinical indications for which emricasan is approved; • physicians, major operators of tertiary care centers and transplant centers and patients considering emricasan as a safe and effective treatment; • the potential and perceived advantages of emricasan over alternative treatments; • the prevalence and severity of any side effects; • product labeling or product insert requirements of the FDA or other regulatory authorities; 40 Table of Contents • the timing of market introduction of emricasan as well as competitive products; • the cost of treatment in relation to alternative treatments; • the availability of adequate reimbursement and pricing by third-party payors and government authorities; • relative convenience and ease of administration; and • the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts. If emricasan is approved but fails to achieve market acceptance among physicians, patients or others in the medical community, we will not be able to generate significant revenues, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Coverage and reimbursement may be limited or unavailable in certain market segments for emricasan, which could make it difficult for us to sell emricasan profitably. Government authorities and third-party payors, such as private health insurers and health maintenance organizations, decide which drugs they will cover and the amount of reimbursement. Reimbursement by a third-party payor may depend upon a number of factors, including the third-party payor’s determination that use of a product is: • a covered benefit under its health plan; • safe, effective and medically necessary; • appropriate for the specific patient; • cost-effective; and • neither experimental nor investigational. Obtaining coverage and reimbursement approval for a product from a government or other third-party payor is a time-consuming and costly process that could require us to provide to the payor supporting scientific, clinical and cost-effectiveness data for the use of our products. We may not be able to provide data sufficient to gain acceptance with respect to coverage and reimbursement. If reimbursement of our future products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, we may be unable to achieve or sustain profitability. We intend to seek approval to market emricasan in both the United States and in selected foreign jurisdictions. If we obtain approval in one or more foreign jurisdictions for emricasan, we will be subject to rules and regulations in those jurisdictions. In some foreign countries, particularly those in the EU, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals and biologics is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after obtaining marketing approval for a drug candidate. In addition, market acceptance and sales of emricasan will depend significantly on the availability of adequate coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors for emricasan and may be affected by existing and future health care reform measures. In both the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes to the health care system that could impact our ability to sell our products profitably. In particular, the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003 revised the payment methodology for many products under Medicare in the United States. This has resulted in lower rates of reimbursement. In 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, collectively, the Healthcare Reform Act, was enacted. The Healthcare Reform Act, among other things, increases the minimum Medicaid rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program and extends the rebate program to individuals enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations, establishes annual fees on 41 Table of Contents manufacturers of certain branded prescription drugs, requires manufacturers to participate in a discount program for certain outpatient drugs under Medicare Part D and promotes programs that increase the federal government’s comparative effectiveness research, which will impact existing government healthcare programs and will result in the development of new programs. An expansion in the government’s role in the United States healthcare industry may further lower rates of reimbursement for pharmaceutical products. Other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted in the United States since the Healthcare Reform Act was enacted. On August 2, 2011, the Budget Control Act of 2011, among other things, created measures for spending reductions by Congress. A Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, tasked with recommending a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, was unable to reach required goals, thereby triggering the legislation’s automatic reduction to several government programs. This includes aggregate reductions of Medicare payments to providers up to 2% per fiscal year. On January 2, 2013, President Obama signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, or the ATRA, which delayed for another two months the budget cuts mandated by these sequestration provisions of the Budget Control Act of 2011. On March 1, 2013, the President signed an executive order implementing sequestration, and on April 1, 2013, the 2% Medicare payment reductions went into effect. The ATRA also, among other things, reduced Medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. There have been, and likely will continue to be, legislative and regulatory proposals at the federal and state levels directed at broadening the availability of healthcare and containing or lowering the cost of healthcare. We cannot predict the initiatives that may be adopted in the future. The continuing efforts of the government, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of healthcare services to contain or reduce costs of healthcare and/or impose price controls may adversely affect: • the demand for emricasan, if we obtain regulatory approval; • our ability to set a price that we believe is fair for our products; • our ability to generate revenues and achieve or maintain profitability; • the level of taxes that we are required to pay; and • the availability of capital. Any reduction in reimbursement from Medicare or other government programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors, which may adversely affect our future profitability. We currently have no marketing and sales organization and have no experience in marketing products. If we are unable to establish marketing and sales capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to market and sell emricasan, we may not be able to generate product revenues. We currently do not have a commercial organization for the marketing, sales and distribution of pharmaceutical products. In order to commercialize emricasan, we must build our marketing, sales, distribution, managerial and other non-technical capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services. We expect that the majority of all ACLF, CLF and POLT-HCV-SVR patients will be treated at tertiary care centers and transplant centers and therefore can be addressed with a targeted sales force. We intend to build our own commercial infrastructure in North America and the EU to target these centers, but will evaluate opportunities to partner with pharmaceutical companies that have established sales and marketing capabilities to commercialize emricasan in ACLF, CLF and POLT-HCV-SVR outside of North America and Europe. We may also partner with a pharmaceutical company that has global capabilities to evaluate emricasan in non-orphan indications for which we believe it may also be effective. The establishment and development of our own sales force or the establishment of a contract sales force to market emricasan will be expensive and time-consuming and could delay any commercial launch. Moreover, we 42 Table of Contents cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully develop this capability. We will have to compete with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to recruit, hire, train and retain marketing and sales personnel. We also face competition in our search for third parties to assist us with the sales and marketing efforts of emricasan. To the extent we rely on third parties to commercialize emricasan, if approved, we may have little or no control over the marketing and sales efforts of such third parties and our revenues from product sales may be lower than if we had commercialized emricasan ourselves. In the event we are unable to develop our own marketing and sales force or collaborate with a third-party marketing and sales organization, we would not be able to commercialize emricasan. A variety of risks associated with marketing emricasan internationally could materially adversely affect our business. We plan to seek regulatory approval for emricasan outside of the United States and, accordingly, we expect that we will be subject to additional risks related to operating in foreign countries if we obtain the necessary approvals, including: • differing regulatory requirements in foreign countries; • the potential for so-called parallel importing, which is what happens when a local seller, faced with high or higher local prices, opts to import goods from a foreign market (with low or lower prices) rather than buying them locally; • unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers, price and exchange controls and other regulatory requirements; • economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets; • compliance with tax, employment, immigration and labor laws for employees living or traveling abroad; • foreign taxes, including withholding of payroll taxes; • foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses and reduced revenues, and other obligations incident to doing business in another country; • difficulties staffing and managing foreign operations; • workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the United States; • potential liability under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 or comparable foreign regulations; • challenges enforcing our contractual and intellectual property rights, especially in those foreign countries that do not respect and protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the United States; • production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; and • business interruptions resulting from geo-political actions, including war and terrorism. These and other risks associated with our international operations may materially adversely affect our ability to attain or maintain profitable operations. If we fail to develop and commercialize any other drug candidates, we may be unable to grow our business. Although we currently have no plans to do so, we may seek to develop and commercialize drug candidates in addition to emricasan, which is currently our only drug candidate. If we decide to pursue the development and 43 Table of Contents commercialization of any additional drug candidates, we may be required to invest significant resources to acquire or in-license the rights to such drug candidates or to conduct drug discovery activities. In addition, any other drug candidates will require additional, time-consuming development efforts prior to commercial sale, including preclinical studies, extensive clinical trials and approval by the FDA and applicable foreign regulatory authorities. All drug candidates are prone to the risks of failure that are inherent in pharmaceutical product development, including the possibility that the drug candidate will not be shown to be sufficiently safe and/or effective for approval by regulatory authorities. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to acquire, discover or develop any additional drug candidates, or that any additional drug candidates we may develop will be approved, manufactured or produced economically, successfully commercialized or widely accepted in the marketplace or be more effective than other commercially available alternatives. Research programs to identify new drug candidates require substantial technical, financial and human resources whether or not we ultimately identify any candidates. If we are unable to develop or commercialize emricasan or any other drug candidates, our business and prospects will suffer. We cannot be certain that emricasan or any other drug candidates that we develop will produce commercially viable drugs that safely and effectively treat liver or other diseases. Even if we are successful in completing preclinical and clinical development and receiving regulatory approval for one commercially viable drug for the treatment of one disease, we cannot be certain that we will also be able to develop and receive regulatory approval for other drug candidates for the treatment of other forms of that disease or other diseases. If we fail to develop a pipeline of potential drug candidates other than emricasan, we will not have any prospects for commercially viable drugs should our efforts to develop and commercialize emricasan be unsuccessful, and our business prospects would be harmed significantly. We face significant competition from other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies and our operating results will suffer if we fail to compete effectively. The biopharmaceutical industry is characterized by intense competition and rapid innovation. Although we believe that we hold a leading position in our understanding of caspase inhibition related to liver disease, our competitors may be able to develop other compounds or drugs that are able to achieve similar or better results. Our potential competitors include major multinational pharmaceutical companies, established biotechnology companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies and universities and other research institutions. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and other resources, such as larger research and development staff and experienced marketing and manufacturing organizations and well-established sales forces. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large, established companies. Mergers and acquisitions in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries may result in even more resources being concentrated in our competitors. Competition may increase further as a result of advances in the commercial applicability of technologies and greater availability of capital for investment in these industries. Our competitors may succeed in developing, acquiring or licensing on an exclusive basis drug products that are more effective or less costly than emricasan. We believe the key competitive factors that will affect the development and commercial success of our drug candidates are efficacy, safety and tolerability profile, reliability, convenience of dosing, price and reimbursement. There are currently no therapeutic products approved for the treatment of ACLF, CLF, POLT-HCV-SVR or NASH. There are a number of marketed therapeutics used in each of these diseases to try to remove the underlying cause of the disease and prevent further liver injury. For example, if the liver damage is a result of hepatitis B virus or HCV infection, marketed antiviral medications may be used to treat the virus that led to liver damage. If the liver damage is a result of alcoholic hepatitis, marketed alcohol addiction drugs may be used. If the liver damage is a result of obesity, diet and exercise may be prescribed along with marketed therapeutics. If the liver damage is a result of NASH, marketed drugs such as insulin sensitizers (e.g., metformin), antihyperlipidemic agents (e.g., gemfibrozil), pentoxifylline and ursodiol may be used, although none of these are approved for NASH. In addition to the marketed drugs for those indications, there are drugs in development for each of these indications. Although these marketed therapies and those in development may be efficacious, all 44 Table of Contents of them take time to show an effect and as long as the underlying conditions persist there will continue to be damage to the liver. In NASH for example, drugs in development have differing mechanisms of action and it is currently unknown whether any single drug candidate will eliminate liver inflammation and halts liver disease progression into advanced fibrosis. For each of these indications, emricasan is the only therapeutic we are aware of that is being developed specifically to reduce the level of apoptosis in the liver and as a result it may be used with these other therapies. Our estimates of disease prevalence consider the presence of these other treatments. In addition, the HCV landscape is expected to continue to evolve dramatically over the next five to ten years with the introduction of new interferon-free regimens and next generation interferon-free regimens, which may reach the market by as early as 2014, with greater efficacy and tolerability over the current antiviral therapies. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for emricasan, the availability and price of our competitors’ products could limit the demand, and the price we are able to charge, for emricasan. We will not achieve our business plan if the acceptance of emricasan is inhibited by price competition or the reluctance of physicians to switch from existing methods of treatment to emricasan, or if physicians switch to other new drug products or choose to reserve emricasan for use in limited circumstances. Our inability to compete with existing or subsequently introduced drug products would have a material adverse impact on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Established pharmaceutical companies may invest heavily to accelerate discovery and development of novel compounds or to in-license novel compounds that could make emricasan less competitive. In addition, any new product that competes with an approved product must demonstrate compelling advantages in efficacy, convenience, tolerability and safety in order to overcome price competition and to be commercially successful. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining patent protection, receiving FDA approval or discovering, developing and commercializing medicines before we do, which would have a material adverse impact on our business. We may not be able to obtain orphan drug exclusivity for emricasan for any indication. In the United States, under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan designation to a drug or biological product intended to treat a rare disease or condition. Such diseases and conditions are those that affect fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States, or if they affect more than 200,000 individuals in the United States, there is no reasonable expectation that the cost of developing and making a drug product available in the United States for these types of diseases or conditions will be recovered from sales of the product. Orphan product designation must be requested before submitting an NDA. If the FDA grants orphan product designation, the identity of the therapeutic agent and its potential orphan use are disclosed publicly by that agency. Orphan product designation does not convey any advantage in or shorten the duration of the regulatory review and approval process, but it can lead to financial incentives, such as opportunities for grant funding toward clinical trial costs, tax advantages and user-fee waivers. If a product that has orphan designation subsequently receives the first FDA approval for the disease or condition for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan drug marketing exclusivity for a period of seven years. Orphan drug marketing exclusivity generally prevents the FDA from approving another application, including a full NDA, to market the same drug or biological product for the same indication for seven years, except in limited circumstances, including if the FDA concludes that the later drug is safer, more effective or makes a major contribution to patient care. For purposes of small molecule drugs, the FDA defines “same drug” as a drug that contains the same active chemical entity and is intended for the same use as the drug in question. A designated orphan drug may not receive orphan drug marketing exclusivity if it is approved for a use that is broader than the indication for which it received orphan designation. Orphan drug marketing exclusivity rights in the United States may be lost if the FDA later determines that the request for designation was materially defective or if the manufacturer is unable to assure sufficient quantity of the drug to meet the needs of patients with the rare disease or condition. 45 Table of Contents The criteria for designating an orphan medicinal product in the EU are similar in principle to those in the United States. Under Article 3 of Regulation (EC) 141/2000, a medicinal product may be designated as orphan if (1) it is intended for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of a life-threatening or chronically debilitating condition; (2) either (a) such condition affects no more than five in 10,000 persons in the EU when the application is made, or (b) the product, without the benefits derived from orphan status, would not generate sufficient return in the EU to justify investment; and (3) there exists no satisfactory method of diagnosis, prevention or treatment of such condition authorized for marketing in the EU, or if such a method exists, the product will be of significant benefit to those affected by the condition, as defined in Regulation (EC) 847/2000. Orphan medicinal products are eligible for financial incentives such as reduction of fees or fee waivers and are, upon grant of a marketing authorization, entitled to ten years of market exclusivity for the approved therapeutic indication. The application for orphan designation must be submitted before the application for marketing authorization. The applicant will receive a fee reduction for the marketing authorization application if the orphan designation has been granted, but not if the designation is still pending at the time the marketing authorization is submitted. Orphan designation does not convey any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory review and approval process. The ten-year market exclusivity in the EU may be reduced to six years if, at the end of the fifth year, it is established that the product no longer meets the criteria for orphan designation, for example, if the product is sufficiently profitable not to justify maintenance of market exclusivity. Additionally, marketing authorization may be granted to a similar product for the same indication at any time if: • the second applicant can establish that its product, although similar, is safer, more effective or otherwise clinically superior; • the applicant consents to a second orphan medicinal product application; or • the applicant cannot supply enough orphan medicinal product. We originally applied for orphan drug designation for emricasan for the treatment of fibrosis in HCV-POLT patients in the United States and the EU. The FDA granted an orphan drug designation for emricasan for the treatment of POLT patients with reestablished fibrosis to delay the progression to cirrhosis and end-stage liver disease. In the EU, we withdrew the application based on feedback from the applicable regulatory body that emricasan may have efficacy in fibrosis outside of the HCV-POLT patient population. We plan to submit applications for orphan drug designations for ACLF in the United States and the EU in the second half of 2014. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain orphan drug exclusivity for emricasan in any jurisdiction for the target indications in a timely manner or at all, or that a competitor will not obtain orphan drug exclusivity that could block the regulatory approval of emricasan for several years. If we are unable to obtain orphan drug designation in the United States or the EU, we will not receive market exclusivity which might affect our ability to generate sufficient revenues. If a competitor is able to obtain orphan exclusivity that would block emricasan’s regulatory approval, our ability to generate revenues would be significantly reduced which would harm our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to maintain or effectively utilize orphan drug exclusivity for emricasan for any indication. We received orphan drug designation from the FDA for emricasan for the treatment of POLT patients with reestablished fibrosis to delay the progression to cirrhosis and end-stage liver disease. We may be unable to obtain FDA approval for emricasan for this orphan population or any other orphan population, or we may be unable to successfully commercialize emricasan for such orphan populations due to risks that include: • the orphan patient populations may change in the size; • there may be changes in the treatments options for patients that may provide alternative treatments to emricasan; • the development costs may be greater than projected revenue of drug sales for the orphan indications; 46 Table of Contents • the FDA may disagree with the design or implementation of our clinical trials; • there may be difficulties in enrolling patients for clinical trials; • emricasan may not prove to be efficacious in the orphan patient populations; • clinical trial results may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the FDA; and • emricasan may not have a favorable risk/benefit assessment in the orphan indication. If we are unable to obtain FDA approval for emricasan for any orphan population or are unable to successfully commercialize emricasan for such orphan population, it could harm our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We may form or seek strategic alliances in the future, and we may not realize the benefits of such alliances. We may form or seek strategic alliances, create joint ventures or collaborations or enter into licensing arrangements with third parties that we believe will complement or augment our development and commercialization efforts with respect to emricasan and any future drug candidates that we may develop. Any of these relationships may require us to incur non-recurring and other charges, increase our near- and long-term expenditures, issue securities that dilute our existing stockholders or disrupt our management and business. In addition, we face significant competition in seeking appropriate strategic partners and the negotiation process is time-consuming and complex. Moreover, we may not be successful in our efforts to establish a strategic partnership or other alternative arrangements for emricasan because it may be deemed to be at too early of a stage of development for collaborative effort and third parties may not view emricasan as having the requisite potential to demonstrate safety and efficacy. If we license products or businesses, we may not be able to realize the benefit of such transactions if we are unable to successfully integrate them with our existing operations and company culture. We cannot be certain that, following a strategic transaction or license, we will achieve the revenues or specific net income that justifies such transaction. Any delays in entering into new strategic partnership agreements related to emricasan could delay the development and commercialization of emricasan in certain geographies for certain indications, which would harm our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We are highly dependent on our key personnel, and if we are not successful in attracting and retaining highly qualified personnel, we may not be able to successfully implement our business strategy. Our ability to compete in the highly competitive biotechnology and pharmaceuticals industries depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified managerial, scientific and medical personnel. We are highly dependent on our management, scientific and medical personnel, including our President and Chief Executive Officer, Steven J. Mento, Ph.D., our Senior Vice President, R&D, and Chief Scientific Officer, Alfred P. Spada, Ph.D., and our Senior Vice President, Clinical Research, and Chief Medical Officer, Gary C. Burgess, M.B., Ch.B. M.Med. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees and our inability to find suitable replacements could potentially harm our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations. Our scientific team has expertise in many different aspects of drug discovery and development. We conduct our operations at our leased facility in San Diego, California. This region is headquarters to many other biopharmaceutical companies and many academic and research institutions. Competition for skilled personnel in our market is very intense and may limit our ability to hire and retain highly qualified personnel on acceptable terms. In order to induce valuable employees to remain with our company, in addition to salary and cash incentives, we have provided stock options that vest over time. The value to employees of stock options that vest over time may be significantly affected by movements in our stock price that are beyond our control and may at any time be insufficient to counteract more lucrative offers from other companies. 47 Table of Contents Despite our efforts to retain valuable employees, members of our management, scientific and development teams may terminate their employment with us on short notice. Although we have employment agreements with our key employees, these employment agreements provide for at-will employment, which means that any of our employees could leave our employment at any time, with or without notice. We do not maintain “key man” insurance policies on the lives of these individuals or the lives of any of our other employees. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled junior, mid-level and senior managers as well as junior, mid-level, and senior scientific and medical personnel. Many of the other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies that we compete against for qualified personnel have greater financial and other resources, different risk profiles and a longer history in the industry than we do. They may also provide more diverse opportunities and better chances for career advancement. Some of these characteristics may be more appealing to high quality candidates than what we can offer. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain high quality personnel, our ability to advance the development of emricasan and obtain regulatory approval and potentially commercialize this drug candidate will be limited. We will need to grow the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing this growth. As of March 26, 2014, we had 24 employees, 22 of whom are full-time. As our development and commercialization plans and strategies develop, and as we transition into operating as a public company, we expect to need additional managerial, operational, sales, marketing, financial and other personnel. Future growth would impose significant added responsibilities on members of management, including: • identifying, recruiting, integrating, maintaining and motivating additional employees; • managing our internal development efforts effectively, including the clinical and FDA review process for emricasan, while complying with our contractual obligations to contractors and other third parties; and • improving our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. Our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize emricasan will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively manage any future growth, and our management may also have to divert a disproportionate amount of its attention away from day-to-day activities in order to devote a substantial amount of time to managing these growth activities. To date, we have used the services of outside vendors to perform tasks including clinical trial management, statistics and analysis, regulatory affairs, formulation development and other drug development functions. Our growth strategy may also entail expanding our group of contractors or consultants to implement these tasks going forward. Because we rely on numerous consultants, effectively outsourcing many key functions of our business, we will need to be able to effectively manage these consultants to ensure that they successfully carry out their contractual obligations and meet expected deadlines. However, if we are unable to effectively manage our outsourced activities or if the quality or accuracy of the services provided by consultants is compromised for any reason, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for emricasan or otherwise advance our business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our existing consultants or find other competent outside contractors and consultants on economically reasonable terms, or at all. If we are not able to effectively expand our organization by hiring new employees and expanding our groups of consultants and contractors, we may not be able to successfully implement the tasks necessary to further develop and commercialize emricasan. Accordingly, we may not achieve our research, development and commercialization goals for emricasan. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems and those of our current and future CROs and other contractors and consultants are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, 48 Table of Contents unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. While we have not experienced any such material system failure, accident or security breach to date, if such an event were to occur and cause interruptions in our operations, it could result in a material disruption of our development programs and our business operations. For example, the loss of clinical trial data from completed or future clinical trials could result in delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data. Likewise, we rely on third parties to manufacture emricasan and conduct clinical trials, and similar events relating to their computer systems could also have a material adverse effect on our business. To the extent that any disruption or security breach were to result in a loss of, or damage to, our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur liability and the further development and commercialization of emricasan could be delayed. Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenues and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our operations could be subject to earthquakes, power shortages, telecommunications failures, water shortages, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics and other natural or manmade disasters or business interruptions, for which we are predominantly self-insured. The occurrence of any of these business disruptions could seriously harm our operations and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. We rely on third-party manufacturers to produce emricasan. Our ability to obtain clinical supplies of emricasan could be disrupted if the operations of these suppliers are affected by a man-made or natural disaster or other business interruption. Our corporate headquarters is located in California near major earthquake faults and fire zones. The ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near major earthquake faults and fire zones and being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown, but our operations and financial condition could suffer in the event of a major earthquake, fire or other natural disaster. Our employees may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, including noncompliance with regulatory standards and requirements. We are exposed to the risk of employee fraud or other misconduct. Misconduct by employees could include intentional failures to comply with FDA regulations, to provide accurate information to the FDA, to comply with manufacturing standards we have established, to comply with federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations, to report financial information or data accurately or to disclose unauthorized activities to us. In particular, sales, marketing and business arrangements in the healthcare industry are subject to extensive laws and regulations intended to prevent fraud, kickbacks, self-dealing and other abusive practices. These laws and regulations may restrict or prohibit a wide range of pricing, discounting, marketing and promotion, sales commission, customer incentive programs and other business arrangements. Employee misconduct could also involve the improper use of information obtained in the course of clinical trials, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious harm to our reputation. We have adopted a code of business conduct and ethics, but it is not always possible to identify and deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses or in protecting us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to be in compliance with such laws or regulations. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business, including the imposition of significant fines or other sanctions. If emricasan is approved, we may be subject to healthcare laws, regulation and enforcement. Our failure to comply with those laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial conditions. Although we currently do not have any products on the market, if emricasan is approved, once we begin commercializing emricasan, we may be subject to additional healthcare regulation and enforcement by the 49 Table of Contents federal government and by authorities in the states and foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. Such laws include, without limitation, state and federal anti-kickback, false claims, privacy and security and physician sunshine laws and regulations. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of such laws or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, the exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs and imprisonment, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. If product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of emricasan. We face an inherent risk of product liability as a result of the clinical testing of emricasan and will face an even greater risk if we commercialize any products. For example, we may be sued if emricasan allegedly causes injury or is found to be otherwise unsuitable during clinical testing, manufacturing, marketing or sale. Any such product liability claims may include allegations of defects in manufacturing, defects in design, a failure to warn of dangers inherent in the product, negligence, strict liability and a breach of warranties. Claims could also be asserted under state consumer protection acts. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of emricasan. Even successful defense would require significant financial and management resources. Regardless of the merits or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for emricasan; • injury to our reputation; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • initiation of investigations by regulators; • costs to defend the related litigation; • a diversion of management’s time and our resources; • substantial monetary awards to trial participants or patients; • product recalls, withdrawals or labeling, marketing or promotional restrictions; • loss of revenue; • exhaustion of any available insurance and our capital resources; • the inability to commercialize emricasan; and • a decline in our share price. Our inability to obtain and retain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of products we develop. We currently carry $5.0 million of product liability insurance covering our clinical trials. Although we maintain such insurance, any claim that may be brought against us could result in a court judgment or settlement in an amount that is not covered, in whole or in part, by our insurance or that is in excess of the limits of our insurance coverage. If we determine that it is prudent to increase our product liability coverage due to the commercial launch of any approved product, we may be unable to obtain such increased coverage on acceptable terms, or at all. Our insurance policies also have various exclusions, and we may be subject to a product liability claim for which we have no coverage. We will have to pay any amounts awarded by a court or negotiated in a settlement that exceed our coverage limitations or that are not covered by our insurance, and we may not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient capital to pay such amounts. 50 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Reliance On Third Parties We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize emricasan and our business could be substantially harmed. We have and anticipate that we will continue to engage one or more third-party CROs in connection with our initiated and planned Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical trials for emricasan. We rely heavily on these parties for execution of our clinical trials, and we control only certain aspects of their activities. Nevertheless, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our studies is conducted in accordance with applicable protocol, legal, regulatory and scientific standards, and our reliance on our CROs does not relieve us of our regulatory responsibilities. We and our CROs are required to comply with cGCPs, which are regulations and guidelines enforced by the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities for drug candidates in clinical development. Regulatory authorities enforce these cGCPs through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, principal investigators and trial sites. If we or any of these CROs fail to comply with applicable cGCP regulations, the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing applications. We cannot assure you that, upon inspection, such regulatory authorities will determine that any of our clinical trials comply with the cGCP regulations. In addition, our clinical trials must be conducted with drug product produced under cGMP regulations and will require a large number of test subjects. Our failure or any failure by our CROs to comply with these regulations or to recruit a sufficient number of patients may require us to repeat clinical trials, which would delay the regulatory approval process. Moreover, our business may be implicated if any of our CROs violates federal or state fraud and abuse or false claims laws and regulations or healthcare privacy and security laws. Our CROs are not our employees and, except for remedies available to us under our agreements with such CROs, we cannot control whether or not they devote sufficient time and resources to our ongoing preclinical, clinical and nonclinical programs. These CROs may also have relationships with other commercial entities, including our competitors, for whom they may also be conducting clinical trials or other drug development activities, which could affect their performance on our behalf. If CROs do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines, if they need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated and we may not be able to complete development of, obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize emricasan. As a result, our financial results and the commercial prospects for emricasan would be harmed, our costs could increase and our ability to generate revenues could be delayed. Switching or adding CROs involves substantial cost and requires extensive management time and focus. In addition, there is a natural transition period when a new CRO commences work. As a result, delays occur, which can materially impact our ability to meet our desired clinical development timelines. Although we carefully manage our relationships with our CROs, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter challenges or delays in the future or that these delays or challenges will not have a material adverse impact on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We rely completely on third parties to manufacture our preclinical and clinical drug supplies and we intend to rely on third parties to produce commercial supplies of emricasan, if approved. The development and commercialization of emricasan could be stopped, delayed or made less profitable if those third parties fail to obtain and maintain regulatory approval of their facilities, fail to provide us with sufficient quantities of drug product or fail to do so at acceptable quality levels or prices. We do not currently have nor do we plan to acquire the infrastructure or capability internally to manufacture our clinical drug supplies for use in the conduct of our clinical trials, and we lack the resources and the capability to manufacture emricasan on a clinical or commercial scale. Instead, we rely on contract manufacturers for such production. 51 Table of Contents We do not currently have any agreement with a manufacturer to produce the active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, in emricasan. We acquired quantities of the API from Pfizer as part of our acquisition of the rights to the drug candidate. We believe the quantities we acquired from Pfizer are sufficient to support our initiated Phase 2b ACLF clinical trial and Phase 2 NAFLD/NASH clinical trial and planned Phase 2b POLT-HCV-SVR clinical trial and Phase 2 CLF clinical trial. However, we will need to identify and qualify a new third-party manufacturer of API prior to commercialization of emricasan and, if our estimates regarding our supply are incorrect, prior to the completion of our planned clinical trials. Any delay in identifying and qualifying a new manufacturer of API could delay the potential commercialization of emricasan, and, in the event that we do not have sufficient API to complete our planned clinical trials, it could delay such trials. In addition, we do not currently have a long-term commitment for the production of finished emricasan drug product. Metrics, Inc., a contract manufacturer, has performed formulation and finished goods manufacturing for us based on purchase orders. We expect to continue to purchase finished drug product from Metrics, but currently have no long-term supply commitment with Metrics. If Metrics is unable to produce the amount of finished drug product we need, we may need to identify and qualify other third-party manufacturers of finished drug product in order to complete the clinical development and commercialization of emricasan. Metrics’ inability to produce the amount of finished drug product we need, or any delay in identifying and qualifying another manufacturer of finished drug product could delay our clinical trials and the potential commercialization of emricasan. The facilities used by our contract manufacturers to manufacture emricasan must be approved by the applicable regulatory authorities, including the FDA, pursuant to inspections that will be conducted after an NDA or comparable foreign regulatory marketing application is submitted. We do not control the manufacturing process of emricasan and are completely dependent on our contract manufacturing partners for compliance with the FDA’s requirements for manufacture of both the active drug substances and finished drug product. If our contract manufacturers cannot successfully manufacture material that conforms to our specifications and the FDA’s strict regulatory requirements, they will not be able to secure or maintain FDA approval for the manufacturing facilities. In addition, we have no control over the ability of our contract manufacturers to maintain adequate quality control, quality assurance and qualified personnel. If the FDA or any other applicable regulatory authorities does not approve these facilities for the manufacture of emricasan or if it withdraws any such approval in the future, or if our suppliers or contract manufacturers decide they no longer want to supply or manufacture for us, we may need to find alternative manufacturing facilities, in which case we might not be able to identify manufacturers for clinical or commercial supply on acceptable terms, or at all, which would significantly impact our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval for or market emricasan. In addition, the manufacture of pharmaceutical products is complex and requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, particularly in scaling up and validating initial production and absence of contamination. These problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control, including stability of the product, quality assurance testing, operator error, shortages of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations. Furthermore, if contaminants are discovered in our supply of emricasan or in the manufacturing facilities in which emricasan is made, such manufacturing facilities may need to be closed for an extended period of time to investigate and remedy the contamination. We cannot assure you that any stability or other issues relating to the manufacture of emricasan will not occur in the future. Additionally, our manufacturers may experience manufacturing difficulties due to resource constraints or as a result of labor disputes or unstable political environments. If our manufacturers were to encounter any of these difficulties, or otherwise fail to comply with their contractual obligations, our ability to provide our drug candidate to patients in clinical trials would be jeopardized. Any delay or interruption in the supply of clinical trial supplies could delay the completion of clinical trials, increase the costs associated with maintaining clinical trial programs and, depending upon the period of delay, require us to commence new clinical trials at additional expense or terminate clinical trials completely. 52 Table of Contents If our third-party manufacturers use hazardous and biological materials in a manner that causes injury or violates applicable law, we may be liable for damages. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of potentially hazardous substances, including chemical and biological materials by our third-party manufacturers. Our manufacturers are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations in the United States governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of medical, radioactive and hazardous materials. Although we believe that our manufacturers’ procedures for using, handling, storing and disposing of these materials comply with legally prescribed standards, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from medical, radioactive or hazardous materials. As a result of any such contamination or injury we may incur liability or local, city, state or federal authorities may curtail the use of these materials and interrupt our business operations. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines, and the liability could exceed our resources. We do not have any insurance for liabilities arising from medical radioactive or hazardous materials. Compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations is expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development and production efforts, which could harm our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to Our Financial Position and Capital Requirements We have a limited operating history, have incurred significant operating losses since our inception and anticipate that we will continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. Our operations began in 2005 and we have only a limited operating history upon which you can evaluate our business and prospects. Our operations to date have been limited to conducting product development activities for emricasan and performing research and development with respect to our clinical and preclinical programs. In addition, as an early-stage company, we have limited experience and have not yet demonstrated an ability to successfully overcome many of the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies in new and rapidly evolving fields, particularly in the pharmaceutical area. Nor have we demonstrated an ability to obtain regulatory approval for or to commercialize a drug candidate. Consequently, any predictions about our future performance may not be as accurate as they would be if we had a history of successfully developing and commercializing pharmaceutical products. We have incurred significant operating losses since our inception, including consolidated net losses of $15.6 million, $8.7 million and $12.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. As of December 31, 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of $74.4 million. Our prior losses, combined with expected future losses, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity and working capital. Our losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in our research and development activities. We anticipate that our operating losses will substantially increase over the next several years as we execute our plan to expand our research, development and commercialization activities, including the clinical development and planned commercialization of our drug candidate, emricasan, and incur the additional costs of operating as a public company. In addition, if we obtain regulatory approval of emricasan, we may incur significant sales and marketing expenses. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing pharmaceutical products, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or whether or when we will become profitable, if ever. We have not generated any revenues to date from product sales. We may never achieve or sustain profitability, which could depress the market price of our common stock, and could cause our stockholders to lose all or a part of their investment. Our ability to become profitable depends on our ability to develop and commercialize emricasan. To date, we have no products approved for commercial sale and have not generated any revenues from sales of any drug candidate, and we do not know when, or if, we will generate revenues in the future. We do not anticipate 53 Table of Contents generating revenues, if any, from sales of emricasan for at least the next several years and we will never generate revenues from emricasan if we do not obtain regulatory approval for emricasan. Our ability to generate future revenues depends heavily on our success in: • developing and securing United States and/or foreign regulatory approvals for emricasan; • manufacturing commercial quantities of emricasan at acceptable cost; • achieving broad market acceptance of emricasan in the medical community and with third-party payors and patients; • commercializing emricasan, assuming we receive regulatory approval; and • pursuing clinical development of emricasan in additional indications. Even if we do generate product sales, we may never achieve or sustain profitability. Our failure to become and remain profitable would depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital, expand our business, diversify our product offerings or continue our operations. If we fail to obtain additional financing, we may be unable to complete the development and commercialization of emricasan. Our operations have consumed substantial amounts of cash since inception. We expect to continue to spend substantial amounts to continue the clinical development of emricasan, including our planned Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical trials. If approved, we will require significant additional amounts in order to launch and commercialize emricasan, including building our own commercial capabilities to sell, market and distribute emricasan in the United States and the EU. In July 2013, we received net proceeds of approximately $58.6 million from our initial public offering, or IPO, after deducting underwriting discounts, commissions and offering-related transaction costs. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. In particular, we expect that the net proceeds from our IPO will allow us to complete our initiated Phase 2b ACLF clinical trial and Phase 2 NAFLD/NASH clinical trial and planned Phase 2b POLT-HCV-SVR clinical trial and Phase 2 CLF clinical trial. However, changing circumstances may cause us to consume capital significantly faster than we currently anticipate, and we may need to spend more money than currently expected because of circumstances beyond our control. We will require additional capital for the further development and commercialization of emricasan and may need to raise additional funds sooner if we choose to expand more rapidly than we presently anticipate. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, we may have to significantly delay, scale back or discontinue the development or commercialization of emricasan or other research and development initiatives. We also could be required to seek collaborators for emricasan at an earlier stage than otherwise would be desirable or on terms that are less favorable than might otherwise be available or relinquish or license on unfavorable terms our rights to emricasan in markets where we otherwise would seek to pursue development or commercialization ourselves. Any of the above events could significantly harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations and cause the price of our common stock to decline. Raising additional capital may cause dilution to our existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights to our technologies or drug candidate. We may seek additional capital through a combination of public and private equity offerings, debt financings, strategic partnerships and alliances and licensing arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional 54 Table of Contents capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership interests of our stockholders will be diluted, and the terms may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights of our stockholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased fixed payment obligations and could involve certain restrictive covenants, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional debt, limitations on our ability to acquire or license intellectual property rights and other operating restrictions that could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. If we raise additional funds through strategic partnerships and alliances and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies or drug candidate, or grant licenses on terms unfavorable to us. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, if a corporation undergoes an “ownership change” (generally defined as a greater than 50% change (by value) in its equity ownership over a three year period), the corporation’s ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes to offset its post-change income may be limited. As a result of our most recent private placements, our IPO and other transactions that have occurred over the past three years, we may have experienced an “ownership change.” We may also experience “ownership changes” in the future as a result of subsequent shifts in our stock ownership. As of December 31, 2013, we had federal and state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $43.2 million and $42.6 million, respectively, and federal and state research and development credits of $1.5 million and $0.8 million, respectively, which could be limited if we experience an “ownership change.” Unstable market and economic conditions may have serious adverse consequences on our business, financial condition and stock price. As widely reported, global credit and financial markets have experienced extreme disruptions in the past several years, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates and uncertainty about economic stability. There can be no assurance that further deterioration in credit and financial markets and confidence in economic conditions will not occur. Our general business strategy may be adversely affected by any such economic downturn, volatile business environment or continued unpredictable and unstable market conditions. If the current equity and credit markets deteriorate, or do not improve, it may make any necessary debt or equity financing more difficult, more costly and more dilutive. Failure to secure any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy, financial performance and stock price and could require us to delay or abandon clinical development plans. In addition, there is a risk that one or more of our current service providers, manufacturers and other partners may not survive these difficult economic times, which could directly affect our ability to attain our operating goals on schedule and on budget. At December 31, 2013, we had approximately $56.4 million of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. While we are not aware of any downgrades, material losses, or other significant deterioration in the fair value of our cash equivalents and marketable securities since December 31, 2013, no assurance can be given that deterioration of the global credit and financial markets would not negatively impact our current portfolio of cash equivalents or marketable securities or our ability to meet our financing objectives. Furthermore, our stock price may decline due in part to the volatility of the stock market and the general economic downturn. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If our efforts to protect the proprietary nature of the intellectual property related to our technologies are not adequate, we may not be able to compete effectively in our market. We rely upon a combination of patents, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect the intellectual property related to our technologies. Any disclosure to or misappropriation by third parties of our confidential proprietary information could enable competitors to quickly duplicate or surpass our technological achievements, thus eroding our competitive position in our market. 55 Table of Contents Composition-of-matter patents on the active pharmaceutical ingredient and crystalline forms are generally considered to be the strongest form of intellectual property protection for pharmaceutical products, as such patents provide protection without regard to any method of use. We cannot be certain that the claims in our patent applications covering composition-of-matter and crystalline forms of emricasan will be considered patentable by the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or the USPTO, courts in the United States, or by the patent offices and courts in foreign countries. Method-of-use patents protect the use of a product for the specified method. This type of patent does not prevent a competitor from making and marketing a product that is identical to our product for an indication that is outside the scope of the patented method. Moreover, even if competitors do not actively promote their product for our targeted indications, physicians may prescribe these products “off-label.” Although off-label prescriptions may infringe or contribute to the infringement of method-of-use patents, the practice is common and such infringement is difficult to prevent or prosecute. The strength of patents in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical field involves complex legal and scientific questions and can be uncertain. Some of our patents related to emricasan were acquired from a predecessor owner and were therefore not written by us or our attorneys, and we did not have control over the drafting and prosecution of these patents. Further, the former patent owners might not have given the same attention to the drafting and early prosecution of these patents and applications as we would have if we had been the owners of the patents and applications and had control over the drafting and prosecution. In addition, the former patent owners may not have been completely familiar with United States patent law, possibly resulting in inadequate disclosure and/or claims. This could result in findings of invalidity or unenforceability of the patents we own or patents issuing with reduced claim scope. In addition, the patent applications that we own or that we may license may fail to result in issued patents in the United States or in other foreign countries. Even if the patents do successfully issue, third parties may challenge the validity, enforceability or scope thereof, which may result in such patents being narrowed, invalidated or held unenforceable. Furthermore, even if they are unchallenged, our patents and patent applications may not adequately protect our intellectual property or prevent others from designing around our claims. If the breadth or strength of protection provided by the patent applications we hold with respect to emricasan is threatened, it could dissuade companies from collaborating with us to develop, and threaten our ability to commercialize, emricasan. Further, if we encounter delays in our clinical trials, the period of time during which we could market emricasan under patent protection would be reduced. Since patent applications in the United States and most other countries are confidential for a period of time after filing, we cannot be certain that we were the first to file any patent application related to emricasan. Furthermore, for applications in which all claims are entitled to a priority date before March 16, 2013, an interference proceeding can be provoked by a third-party or instituted by the USPTO, to determine who was the first to invent any of the subject matter covered by the patent claims of our applications. For applications containing a claim not entitled to priority before March 16, 2013, there is greater level of uncertainty in the patent law with the passage of the America Invents Act (2012) which brings into effect significant changes to the United States patent laws that are yet untried and untested, and which introduces new procedures for challenging pending patent applications and issued patents. A primary change under this reform is creating a “first to file” system in the United States. This will require us to be cognizant going forward of the time from invention to filing of a patent application. In addition to the protection afforded by patents, we seek to rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect proprietary know-how that is not patentable, processes for which patents are difficult to enforce and any other elements of our drug discovery and development processes that involve proprietary know-how, information or technology that is not covered by patents. Although we require all of our employees to assign their inventions to us, and require all of our employees, consultants, advisors and any third parties who have access to our proprietary know-how, information or technology to enter into confidentiality agreements, we cannot be certain that our trade secrets and other confidential proprietary information will not be disclosed or that competitors will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques. Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent or in the same manner as the laws of the United States. As a result, 56 Table of Contents we may encounter significant problems in protecting and defending our intellectual property both in the United States and abroad. If we are unable to prevent unauthorized material disclosure of our intellectual property to third parties, we will not be able to establish or maintain a competitive advantage in our market, which could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Third-party claims of intellectual property infringement may prevent or delay our drug discovery and development efforts. Our commercial success depends in part on our avoiding infringement of the patents and proprietary rights of third parties. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patents and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, as well as administrative proceedings for challenging patents, including interference and reexamination proceedings before the USPTO or oppositions and other comparable proceedings in foreign jurisdictions. Recently, under United States patent reform, new procedures including inter partes review and post grant review have been implemented. As stated above, this reform is untried and untested and will bring uncertainty to the possibility of challenge to our patents in the future. Numerous United States and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the fields in which we are developing emricasan. As the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries expand and more patents are issued, the risk increases that emricasan may give rise to claims of infringement of the patent rights of others. Third parties may assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. There may be third-party patents of which we are currently unaware with claims to materials, formulations, methods of manufacture or methods for treatment related to the use or manufacture of emricasan. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending patent applications which may later result in issued patents that emricasan may infringe. In addition, third parties may obtain patents in the future and claim that use of our technologies infringes upon these patents. If any third-party patents were held by a court of competent jurisdiction to cover the manufacturing process of emricasan, any molecules formed during the manufacturing process or any final product itself, the holders of any such patents may be able to block our ability to commercialize the drug candidate unless we obtained a license under the applicable patents, or until such patents expire or they are finally determined to be held invalid or unenforceable. Similarly, if any third-party patent were held by a court of competent jurisdiction to cover aspects of our formulations, processes for manufacture or methods of use, including combination therapy or patient selection methods, the holders of any such patent may be able to block our ability to develop and commercialize the drug candidate unless we obtained a license or until such patent expires or is finally determined to be held invalid or unenforceable. In either case, such a license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain a necessary license to a third-party patent on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, our ability to commercialize emricasan may be impaired or delayed, which could in turn significantly harm our business. Parties making claims against us may seek and obtain injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block our ability to further develop and commercialize emricasan. Defense of these claims, regardless of their merit, would involve substantial litigation expense and would be a substantial diversion of employee resources from our business. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages and attorneys’ fees for willful infringement, obtain one or more licenses from third parties, pay royalties or redesign our infringing products, which may be impossible or require substantial time and monetary expenditure. We cannot predict whether any such license would be available at all or whether it would be available on commercially reasonable terms. Furthermore, even in the absence of litigation, we may need to obtain licenses from third parties to advance our research or allow commercialization of emricasan. We may fail to obtain any of these licenses at a reasonable cost or on reasonable terms, if at all. In that event, we would be unable to further develop and commercialize emricasan, which could harm our business significantly. 57 Table of Contents We may be involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, which could be expensive, time-consuming and unsuccessful. Competitors may infringe our patents. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file infringement claims, which can be expensive and time-consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that one or more of our patents is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover the technology in question. An adverse result in any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated, held unenforceable, or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Defense of these claims, regardless of their merit, would involve substantial litigation expense and would be a substantial diversion of employee resources from our business. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages and attorneys’ fees for willful infringement, obtain one or more licenses from third parties, pay royalties or redesign our infringing products, which may be impossible or require substantial time and monetary expenditure. Interference proceedings provoked by third parties or brought by the USPTO may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patents or patent applications. An unfavorable outcome could require us to cease using the related technology or to attempt to license rights to it from the prevailing party. Our business could be harmed if the prevailing party does not offer us a license on commercially reasonable terms. Litigation or interference proceedings may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and distract our management and other employees. We may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our trade secrets or confidential information, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect those rights as fully as in the United States. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Obtaining and maintaining our patent protection depends on compliance with various procedural, document submission, fee payment and other requirements imposed by governmental patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements. Periodic maintenance fees on any issued patent are due to be paid to the USPTO and foreign patent agencies in several stages over the lifetime of the patent. The USPTO and various foreign governmental patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other similar provisions during the patent application process. While an inadvertent lapse can in many cases be cured by payment of a late fee or by other means in accordance with the applicable rules, there are situations in which noncompliance can result in abandonment or lapse of the patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. Non-compliance events that could result in abandonment or lapse of a patent or patent application include, but are not limited to, failure to respond to official actions within prescribed time limits, non-payment of fees and failure to properly legalize and submit formal documents. In such an event, our competitors might be able to enter the market, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be subject to claims that our employees, consultants or independent contractors have wrongfully used or disclosed confidential information of third parties. We have received confidential and proprietary information from third parties. In addition, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies. We may be subject to claims that we or our employees, consultants or independent contractors have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed confidential information of these third parties or our employees’ former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial cost and be a distraction to our management and employees. 58 Table of Contents Risks Related to Ownership of our Common Stock The price of our stock may be volatile. Prior to our IPO, there was no public market for our common stock. Since the commencement of trading in connection with our IPO in July 2013 through March 14, 2014, the sale price per share of our common stock on The NASDAQ Global Market has ranged from a low of $ 5.76 to a high of $15.67. The trading price of our common stock is likely to continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control, including limited trading volume. In addition to the factors discussed in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this annual report, these factors include: • the commencement, enrollment or results of our planned Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical trials of emricasan or any future clinical trials we may conduct, or changes in the development status of emricasan; • any delay in our regulatory filings for emricasan and any adverse development or perceived adverse development with respect to the applicable regulatory authority’s review of such filings, including without limitation the FDA’s issuance of a “refusal to file” letter or a request for additional information; • adverse results or delays in clinical trials; • our decision to initiate a clinical trial, not to initiate a clinical trial or to terminate an existing clinical trial; • adverse regulatory decisions, including failure to receive regulatory approval for emricasan; • changes in laws or regulations applicable to our products, including but not limited to clinical trial requirements for approvals; • adverse developments concerning our manufacturers; • our inability to obtain adequate product supply for any approved drug product or inability to do so at acceptable prices; • our inability to establish collaborations if needed; • our failure to commercialize emricasan; • additions or departures of key scientific or management personnel; • unanticipated serious safety concerns related to the use of emricasan; • introduction of new products or services offered by us or our competitors; • announcements of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by us or our competitors; • our ability to effectively manage our growth; • the size and growth, if any, of the ACLF, CLF, POLT-HCV-SVR and NASH markets and other targeted markets; • our ability to successfully enter new markets; • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; • our cash position; • our failure to meet the estimates and projections of the investment community or that we may otherwise provide to the public; • publication of research reports about us or our industry or positive or negative recommendations or withdrawal of research coverage by securities analysts; • changes in the market valuations of similar companies; 59 Table of Contents • overall performance of the equity markets; • sales of our common stock by us or our stockholders in the future; • trading volume of our common stock; • changes in accounting practices; • ineffectiveness of our internal controls; • disputes or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies; • significant lawsuits, including patent or stockholder litigation; • general political and economic conditions; and • other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the stock market in general, and The NASDAQ Global Market and biotechnology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. The realization of any of the above risks or any of a broad range of other risks, including those described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K could have a dramatic and material adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock so any returns will be limited to the value of our stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividend on our common stock. We currently anticipate that we will retain future earnings for the development, operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. In addition, our ability to pay cash dividends is currently prohibited by the terms of a promissory note in the principal amount of $1.0 million issued by us to Pfizer in July 2010. Any return to stockholders will therefore be limited to the appreciation of their stock. Our principal stockholders and management own a significant percentage of our stock and will be able to exert significant control over matters subject to stockholder approval. As of December 31, 2013, our executive officers, directors, 5% stockholders and their affiliates owned approximately 55% of our outstanding voting stock. Therefore, these stockholders have the ability to influence us through this ownership position. These stockholders may be able to determine all matters requiring stockholder approval. For example, these stockholders may be able to control elections of directors, amendments of our organizational documents, or approval of any merger, sale of assets, or other major corporate transaction. This may prevent or discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals or offers for our common stock that our stockholders may feel are in their best interests. We are an emerging growth company, and we cannot be certain if the reduced reporting requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors. We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act. For as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements and exemptions from the requirements of holding nonbinding advisory votes on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute 60 Table of Contents payments not previously approved. We could be an emerging growth company for up to five years following 2013, the year in which we completed our IPO, although circumstances could cause us to lose that status earlier, including if the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates exceeds $700.0 million as of any June 30 before that time or if we have total annual gross revenue of $1.0 billion or more during any fiscal year before that time, in which cases we would no longer be an emerging growth company as of the following December 31 or, if we issue more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt during any three year period before that time, we would cease to be an emerging growth company immediately. Even after we no longer qualify as an emerging growth company, we may qualify as a “smaller reporting company,” which would allow us to take advantage of many of the same exemptions from disclosure requirements including not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can also delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this exemption from new or revised accounting standards and, therefore, will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. As a result, changes in rules of United States generally accepted accounting principles or their interpretation, the adoption of new guidance or the application of existing guidance to changes in our business could significantly affect our financial position and results of operations. We incur significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to compliance initiatives. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently adopted by the SEC and The NASDAQ Global Market to implement provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, impose significant requirements on public companies, including requiring establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and changes in corporate governance practices. Further, in July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, was enacted. There are significant corporate governance and executive compensation related provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that require the SEC to adopt additional rules and regulations in these areas such as “say on pay” and proxy access. Recent legislation permits emerging growth companies to implement many of these requirements over a longer period and up to five years following their initial public offering. We are taking advantage of this new legislation but cannot guarantee that we will not be required to implement these requirements sooner than budgeted or planned and thereby incur unexpected expenses. Stockholder activism, the current political environment and the current high level of government intervention and regulatory reform may lead to substantial new regulations and disclosure obligations, which may lead to additional compliance costs and impact the manner in which we operate our business in ways we cannot currently anticipate. The rules and regulations applicable to public companies may substantially increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. If these requirements divert the attention of our management and personnel from other business concerns, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The increased costs will decrease our net income or increase our consolidated net loss and may require us to reduce costs in other areas of our business or increase the prices of our products or services. For example, these rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to incur substantial costs to maintain the same or similar coverage. We cannot predict or estimate the amount or timing of additional costs we may incur to respond to these requirements. The impact of these requirements could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. 61 Table of Contents Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by our existing stockholders in the public market could cause our stock price to fall. Persons who were our stockholders prior to our IPO in July 2013 continue to hold a substantial number of shares of our common stock that they are able to sell in the public market, subject in some cases to certain legal restrictions. Significant portions of these shares are held by a small number of stockholders. If these stockholders sell, or indicate an intention to sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline. The perception in the market that these sales may occur could also cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. As of March 14, 2014, we had 15,632,000 shares of common stock outstanding. In addition, shares of common stock that are either subject to outstanding options or reserved for future issuance under our employee benefit plans will become eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by the provisions of various vesting schedules and Rule 144 and Rule 701 under the Securities Act. If these additional shares of common stock are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline. The holders of 8,870,459 shares of our common stock as of March 14, 2014 (including shares issuable upon exercise of options and warrants) are entitled to rights with respect to the registration of their shares under the Securities Act. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in the shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act, except for shares held by affiliates, as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Any sales of securities by these stockholders could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. Future sales and issuances of our common stock or rights to purchase common stock, including pursuant to our equity incentive plans, could result in additional dilution of the percentage ownership of our stockholders and could cause our stock price to fall. We expect that significant additional capital may be needed in the future to continue our planned operations, including conducting clinical trials, commercialization efforts, expanded research and development activities and costs associated with operating a public company. To raise capital, we may sell common stock, convertible securities or other equity securities in one or more transactions at prices and in a manner we determine from time to time. If we sell common stock, convertible securities or other equity securities, our stockholders may be materially diluted by subsequent sales and new investors could gain rights preferences and privileges senior to the holders of our common stock. Pursuant to our 2013 equity incentive award plan, or the 2013 Plan, which became effective on the business day prior to the public trading date of our common stock, our management is authorized to grant stock options to our employees, directors and consultants. The number of shares available for future grant under the 2013 Plan will automatically increase each year by an amount equal to the least of (1) 1,000,000 shares of our common stock, (2) 5% of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of the last day of our immediately preceding fiscal year, or (3) such other amount as our board of directors may determine. Unless our board of directors elects not to increase the number of shares available for future grant each year, our stockholders may experience additional dilution, which could cause our stock price to fall. We could be subject to securities class action litigation. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because pharmaceutical companies have experienced significant stock price volatility in recent years. If we face such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could harm our business. 62 Table of Contents We have broad discretion in the use of the net proceeds from our IPO and may not use them effectively. Our management has broad discretion in the application of the net proceeds from our IPO. Because of the number and variability of factors that will determine our use of the net proceeds from our IPO, their ultimate use may vary substantially from their currently intended use. Our management might not apply our net proceeds in ways that ultimately improve our operating results or increase the value of our common stock. We expect to continue to use the net proceeds from our IPO to fund the clinical development of emricasan and to fund working capital and for general corporate purposes. The failure by our management to apply these funds effectively could harm our business. Pending their use, we have and may continue to invest the net proceeds from our IPO in primarily short-term, investment-grade, interest-bearing securities. These investments may not yield a favorable return to our stockholders. If we do not invest or apply the net proceeds from our IPO in ways that enhance stockholder value, we may fail to achieve expected financial results, which could cause our stock price to decline. Anti-takeover provisions under our charter documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change of control which could limit the market price of our common stock and may prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our board of directors that our stockholders might consider favorable. Some of these provisions include: • a board of directors divided into three classes serving staggered three-year terms, such that not all members of the board will be elected at one time; • a prohibition on stockholder action through written consent, which requires that all stockholder actions be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; • a requirement that special meetings of stockholders be called only by the chairman of the board of directors, the chief executive officer, the president or by a majority of the total number of authorized directors; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations for election to our board of directors; • a requirement that no member of our board of directors may be removed from office by our stockholders except for cause and, in addition to any other vote required by law, upon the approval of not less than two-thirds of all outstanding shares of our voting stock then entitled to vote in the election of directors; • a requirement of approval of not less than two-thirds of all outstanding shares of our voting stock to amend any bylaws by stockholder action or to amend specific provisions of our certificate of incorporation; and • the authority of the board of directors to issue preferred stock on terms determined by the board of directors without stockholder approval and which preferred stock may include rights superior to the rights of the holders of common stock. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporate Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These anti-takeover provisions and other provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirors to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by the then-current board of directors and could also delay or impede a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors of their choosing or cause us to take other corporate actions desired by certain stockholders. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. 63 Table of Contents If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We currently have limited research coverage by securities and industry analysts. In the event one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price may decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which might cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 