D. Risk Factors Our business faces significant risks. You should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this annual report and in our other filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including the following risk factors which we face and which are faced by our industry. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. This report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our results could materially differ from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, as a result of certain factors including the risks described below and elsewhere in this report and our other SEC filings. See “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” on page 1. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have a history of losses and experienced a significant decline in revenue in 2012, and we may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future, on a quarterly or annual basis. We were established in 2003 and began operations in 2004, and have incurred losses on an annual basis since inception. We experienced net losses of $2.7 million, $0.4 million and $33.0 million in 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. At December 31, 2012, our accumulated deficit was $87.7 million. We expect to incur significant expense related to the development of our LTE products and expansion of our business, including research and development and sales and administrative expenses. Additionally, we may encounter unforeseen difficulties, complications, product delays and other unknown factors that require additional expense. As a result of these increased expenditures, we will have to generate and sustain substantially increased revenue to achieve profitability. We experienced a significant decline in revenue in 2012 to $22.3 million from $93.7 million in 2011 due to lower sales of WiMAX products, following changes in the WiMAX market in the United States beginning in the second half of 2011. Our revenue growth trends in periods prior to 2012 may not be repeated. Accordingly, we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability, and we may continue to incur significant losses in the future. We currently derive the majority of our revenue from sales of our semiconductor solutions for the WiMAX segment of the 4G market. If the WiMAX market continues to significantly decline prior to us generating significant revenue from LTE products, our results of operations will be further harmed. We currently derive the majority of our revenue from the sale of our semiconductor solutions for the WiMAX market and expect we could do so through the first half of 2013. In the second half of 2011, the WiMAX market experienced a decline due to the global economic factors and a shift in strategy by large WiMAX carriers, including Sprint, the largest driver of demand for WiMAX semiconductor solutions, to LTE, which significantly harmed our results of operations for the fourth quarter of 2011 and the year ended December 31, 2012. We believe this reduction in the size of the WiMAX market to be permanent, although we expect the market will continue to exist on a reduced basis for a number of years as it will take time for all WiMAX operators to make the transition to LTE. If the WiMAX market continues to significantly decline prior to us generating significant revenue from LTE products, our results of operations will be further harmed. We have invested substantial time and resources in developing products that support LTE, and do not currently expect to generate significant revenue from LTE products before the second half of 2013 at the earliest. If we fail to accurately predict market requirements or market demand for LTE, or if our solutions are not successfully developed or adopted by our customers, we will be unable to generate significant revenue from the LTE market and our business will 4 Table of Contents suffer. If LTE networks are deployed to a lesser extent or more slowly than we currently anticipate, especially in light of the decline of the WiMAX market, or if other competing 4G protocols achieve greater market acceptance or operators do not migrate to LTE, we may not realize any benefits from this investment. As a result, our business, operating results and financial condition will be significantly harmed. If we are unsuccessful in developing and selling new products on a timely and cost-effective basis or in penetrating new markets, in particular the LTE market, our business and operating results would suffer. The markets in which we and our customers compete or plan to compete are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and industry standards and technological obsolescence. Our ability to compete successfully depends on our ability to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market and support new products and enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis. A fundamental shift in technologies in any of our target markets could harm our competitive position within these markets. In addition, such shifts can cause a significant decrease in our revenues and adversely affect our operating results, as we saw in 2012 with technology shifting from WiMAX to LTE. Our failure to anticipate these shifts, to develop new technologies or to react to changes in existing technologies could materially delay our development of new products, which could result in product obsolescence, decreased revenue and a loss of design wins. The development of new technologies and products generally requires substantial investment before they are commercially viable. We intend to continue to make substantial investments in developing new technologies and products, including our LTE products, and it is possible that our development efforts will not be successful and that our new technologies and products will not be accepted by customers or result in meaningful revenue. If the semiconductor solutions we develop fail to meet market or customer requirements or do not achieve market acceptance, our operating results and competitive position would suffer. Our success and the success of our new products will depend on accurate forecasts of future technological developments, customer and consumer requirements and long-term market demand, as well as on a variety of specific implementation factors, including: • accurate prediction of the size and growth of the LTE markets; • accurate prediction of changes in device manufacturer requirements, technology, industry standards or consumer expectations, demands and preferences; • timely and efficient completion of process design and transfer to manufacturing, assembly and test, and securing sufficient manufacturing capacity to allow us to continue to timely and cost-effectively deliver products to our customers; • market acceptance, adequate consumer demand and commercial production of the products in which our semiconductor solutions are incorporated; • the quality, performance and reliability of our products as compared to competing products and technologies; and • effective marketing, sales and customer service. The markets for our semiconductor solutions are characterized by frequent introduction of next generation and new products, short product life cycles and significant price competition. If we or our customers are unable to manage product transitions in a timely and cost-effective manner, our business and results of operations would suffer. In addition, frequent technology changes and introduction of next generation products may result in inventory obsolescence, which could reduce our gross margins and harm our operating performance. If we fail to timely introduce new products that meet the demands of our customers or our target markets, or if we fail to penetrate new markets, our revenue will decrease and our financial condition would suffer. We depend on the commercial deployment of 4G wireless communications equipment, products and services to grow our business, and our business may be harmed if wireless carriers delay or are unsuccessful in the commercial deployment of 4G technology or if they deploy technologies that are not supported by our solutions. We depend upon the commercial deployment of 4G wireless communications equipment, products and services based on our technology. While many wireless carriers have commercially deployed 3G networks, we cannot predict the timing or success of commercial deployments of 4G networks whether by existing 2G/3G network operators or by new wireless carriers. Deployment of new networks by wireless carriers requires significant capital expenditures, well in advance of any revenue from such networks. In the past, wireless carriers have cancelled or delayed planned deployments of new networks. If existing deployments are not commercially successful or do not continue to grow their subscriber base, or if new commercial deployments of 4G networks are delayed or unsuccessful, our business and financial results would be harmed. During network deployment, wireless carriers often anticipate a certain rate of subscriber additions and, in response, operators typically procure devices to satisfy this forecasted demand. If the rate of deployment of new networks by wireless carriers is slower than we expect or if 4G technology is not as widely adopted by consumers as we expect, the rate of subscriber additions may be slower than expected, which will reduce the sales of our products and cause OEMs and ODMs to hold excess inventory. This would harm our sales and our financial results. A limited number of wireless carriers have started testing 4G networks and a smaller number of wireless carriers have launched limited 4G networks, but the timing and extent of 4G network deployments remains uncertain, and we might not be successful in developing and marketing our semiconductor solutions targeting 4G markets. 5 Table of Contents In addition, wireless carriers may choose to deploy technologies not supported by our solutions. If a 4G technology that is not supported by our semiconductor solutions gains significant market share or is favored by a significant wireless carrier, we could be required to expend a significant amount of time and capital to develop a solution that is compatible with that alternative technology. If we are not successful, we could lose design wins with respect to that technology and our business and financial results would be harmed. Moreover, once a competitor’s solution is chosen by a wireless carrier, OEM or ODM we will have difficulty supplanting those solutions with ours. We depend on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue. If we fail to retain or expand customer relationships, our business could be harmed. A significant amount of our total revenue is attributable to a small number of customers, and we anticipate that this will continue to be the case for the foreseeable future. These customers may decide not to purchase our semiconductor solutions at all, to purchase fewer semiconductor solutions than they did in the past or to alter the terms on which they purchase our products. In addition, to the extent that any customer represents a disproportionately high percentage of our accounts receivable, our exposure to that customer is further increased should they be unable or choose not to pay such accounts receivable on a timely basis or at all. Our top ten customers accounted for 91%, 95% and 80% of our total revenue in 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. HTC accounted for 66%, 78% and 32% of our total revenue in 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. HTC also accounted for 10% of our accounts receivable at December 31, 2012. Huawei accounted for less than 10% of our total revenue in 2010 and 2011 and 16% of our revenue in 2012. Huawei also accounted for 15% of our accounts receivable at December 31, 2012. We expect that some of these customers, who currently purchase primarily WiMAX solutions, could continue to represent a significant percentage of our revenue in 2013 because we expect that the number of WiMAX customers is likely to be limited as the WiMAX industry consolidates and customers prepare for the adoption and commercialization of LTE technology. We also expect to have a limited number of LTE customers and could experience similar customer concentration in that market as it evolves. The loss of any significant customer, a significant reduction in sales we make to them in general or during any period, or any issues with collection of receivables from customers would harm our financial condition and results of operations. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2011 and for the year ended December 31, 2012, our revenue decreased significantly compared to the prior periods as a result of the decline in sales to HTC. Furthermore, we must obtain orders from new customers on an ongoing basis to increase our revenue and grow our business. If we fail to expand our customer relationships, our business could be harmed. We have significant ongoing capital requirements that could have a material effect on our business and financial condition if we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations. Our business requires significant capital investment to carry out extensive research and development in order to remain competitive. If the net proceeds from our February 2013 public offering, our cash on hand and cash generated from operations are not sufficient to fund our operations and capital requirements, we may be required to limit our growth, utilize our existing capital, or enter into financing arrangements at unfavorable terms, any of which could harm our business and financial condition. Our LTE semiconductor solutions do not incorporate support for 2G or 3G protocols, and we currently focus on selling these solutions into the market for LTE-only devices. If the market for LTE-only devices materializes more slowly or at a lower volume level than we anticipate, our results of operations may be harmed. Our semiconductor solutions currently support only 4G protocols. As a result, our LTE strategy focuses primarily on selling into the LTE-only device market. The growth rate and size of the market for LTE-only devices is dependent on a number of factors, including the degree of geographic and population coverage by LTE networks. If this coverage does not materialize as quickly as we expect, if fewer LTE carriers than we expect offer comprehensive LTE coverage in their geographic operating areas, or if these LTE carriers require support for 2G or 3G protocols in a larger proportion of their overall device portfolio than we expect, then demand for LTE-only semiconductor solutions like ours would be lower and our results of operations would be harmed. We depend on one independent foundry to manufacture our products and do not have a long-term agreement with such foundry, and loss of this foundry or our failure to obtain sufficient foundry capacity would significantly delay our ability to ship our products, cause us to lose revenue and market share and damage our customer relationships. Access to foundry capacity is critical to our business because we are a fabless semiconductor company. We depend on a sole independent foundry, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited, or TSMC, in Taiwan to manufacture our semiconductor wafers. Because we outsource our manufacturing to a single foundry, we face several significant risks, including: • constraints in or unavailability of manufacturing capacity; 6 Table of Contents • limited control over delivery schedules, quality assurance and control, manufacturing yields and production costs; and • the unavailability of, or potential delays in obtaining access to, key process technologies. If we do not accurately forecast our capacity needs, TSMC may not have available capacity to meet our immediate needs or we may be required to pay higher costs to fulfill those needs, either of which could harm our business, results of operations or financial condition. For example, in the third quarter of 2010, an unexpected sharp increase in demand for one of our products caused us to incur capacity utilization surcharges from TSMC in order to secure the necessary capacity and production of our semiconductor solutions in quantities and on a timeline sufficient to meet our customers’ expectations. Payment of these surcharges increased our cost of product revenue significantly and reduced our product margins in the third quarter of 2010 and for the year ended December 31, 2010. The ability of TSMC to provide us with semiconductor wafers is limited at any given time by their available capacity and we do not have a guaranteed level of manufacturing capacity. We do not have any agreement with TSMC and place our orders on a purchase order basis. As a result, if TSMC raises its prices or is not able to satisfy our required capacity for any reason, including natural or other disasters, allocates capacity to larger customers or to different sectors of the semiconductor industry, experiences labor issues or shortages or delays in shipment of semiconductor equipment or materials used in the manufacture of our semiconductors, or if our business relationship with TSMC deteriorates, we may not be able to obtain the required capacity and would have to seek alternative foundries, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, in a timely manner, or at all. Locating and qualifying a new foundry would require a significant amount of time, which would result in a delay in production of our products. In addition, using foundries with which we have no established relationship could expose us to unfavorable pricing and terms, delays in developing and qualifying new products, unsatisfactory quality or insufficient capacity allocation. We place our orders on the basis of our customers’ purchase orders and sales forecasts; however, foundries can allocate capacity to the production of other companies’ products and reduce deliveries to us on short notice. Many of the customers of TSMC, or foundries that we may use in the future, are larger than we are, or have long-term agreements with such foundries, and as a result those customers may receive preferential treatment from the foundries in terms of price, capacity allocation and payment terms. Any delay in qualifying a new foundry or production issues with any new foundry would result in lost sales and could damage our relationship with existing and future customers as well as our reputation in the market. If our foundry vendor does not achieve satisfactory yields or quality, our reputation and customer relationships could be harmed. The fabrication of semiconductor solutions such as ours is a complex and technically demanding process. Minor deviations in the manufacturing process can cause substantial decreases in yields, and in some cases, cause production to be suspended. TSMC, or foundries that we may use in the future, could, from time to time, experience manufacturing defects and reduced manufacturing yields. Changes in manufacturing processes or the inadvertent use of defective or contaminated materials by our foundry vendor could result in lower than anticipated manufacturing yields or unacceptable performance. Many of these problems are difficult to detect at an early stage of the manufacturing process and may be time consuming and expensive to correct. Poor yields from our foundry vendor, or defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our semiconductor solutions could cause us significant customer relations and business reputation problems, harm our financial results and result in financial or other damages to our customers. In addition, because we have a sole source of wafer supply, these risks are magnified because we do not have an alternative source to purchase from should these risks materialize. If TSMC fails to provide satisfactory product to us, we would be required to identify and qualify other sources, which could take a significant amount of time and would result in lost sales. In addition, we indemnify our customers for losses resulting from defects in our products, which costs could be substantial. A product liability or other indemnification claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming and costly to defend. Our customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities or delay production, and if we fail to forecast demand for our products accurately, we may incur product shortages, delays in product shipments or excess or insufficient product inventory, which could harm our business. We do not have firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers. Substantially all of our sales are made on a purchase order basis which permits our customers to cancel, change or delay product purchase commitments with little or no notice to us and without penalty. Because production lead times often exceed the amount of time required to fulfill orders, we often must manufacture in advance of orders, relying on an imperfect demand forecast to project volumes and product mix. Our ability to accurately forecast demand can be harmed by a number of factors, including inaccurate forecasting by our customers, changes in market conditions, changes in our product order mix and demand for our customers’ products. Even after an order is received, our customers may cancel these orders or request a decrease in production quantities. Any such cancellation or decrease subjects us to a number of risks, most notably that our projected sales will not materialize on schedule or at all, leading to unanticipated revenue shortfalls and excess or obsolete inventory, which we may be unable to sell to other customers. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2011, HTC, our largest customer, requested to take delivery of only 40% of the chips previously scheduled for delivery in December and to cancel the remainder of the scheduled shipment, as a result of global economic conditions and reduced WiMAX demand. As a 7 Table of Contents result, our expected revenue for the fourth quarter of 2011 decreased significantly. Alternatively, if we are unable to project customer requirements accurately, we may not manufacture enough semiconductor solutions, which could lead to delays in product shipments and lost sales opportunities in the near term, as well as force our customers to identify alternative sources, which could affect our ongoing relationships with these customers. We have in the past had customers significantly increase their requested production quantities with little or no advance notice. If we do not fulfill customer demands in a timely manner, our customers may cancel their orders and we may be subject to customer claims for cost of replacement. Underestimating or overestimating demand would lead to insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory and could harm our operating results, cash flow and financial condition, as well as our relationships with our customers and our reputation in the marketplace. If customers do not design our semiconductor solutions into their product offerings or if our customers’ product offerings are not commercially successful, our revenue and our business would be harmed. We sell our semiconductor solutions directly to OEMs who include them in their products, and to ODMs who include them in their products they supply to OEMs. As a result, we rely on OEMs to design our semiconductor solutions into the products they sell. Because our semiconductor solutions are generally a critical component of our customers’ products, they are typically incorporated into our customers’ products at the design stage and the sales cycle typically takes 12 months or more to complete. Without these design wins, our revenue and our business would be significantly harmed. We often incur significant expenditures on the development of a new semiconductor solution without any assurance that an OEM will select our semiconductor solution for design into its own product. Because the types of semiconductor solutions we sell are a critical aspect of an OEM’s product, once an OEM designs a competitor’s semiconductor into its product offering, it becomes significantly more difficult for us to sell our semiconductor solutions to that customer for a particular product offering because changing suppliers involves significant cost, time, effort and risk for the customer. Further, if we are unable to develop new products in a timely manner for inclusion in such products, or if major defects or errors that might significantly impair performance or standards compliance are found in our products after inclusion by an OEM, OEMs will be unlikely to include our semiconductor solutions into their products and our reputation in the market and future prospects would be harmed. Furthermore, even if an OEM designs one of our semiconductor solutions into its product offering, we cannot be assured that its product will be commercially successful and that we will receive any revenue from that OEM. This risk is heightened because 4G technology is rapidly emerging and most of our customers do not have significant experience designing products utilizing 4G technology. If our customers’ products incorporating our semiconductor solutions fail to meet the demands of their customers or otherwise fail to achieve market acceptance, our revenue and business would be harmed. If we are unable to compete effectively, we may not increase or maintain our revenue or market share, which would harm our business. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or potential competitors. If we do not compete successfully, our revenue and market share may decline. In the LTE market, we face or expect to face competition from established semiconductor companies such as Broadcom Corporation, Intel Corporation, Qualcomm Incorporated, Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., Spreadtrum and ST-Ericsson N.V., as well as smaller entrants in the market such as GCT Semiconductor, Altair or Innofidei. In the WiMAX market, we compete with suppliers such as Broadcom Corporation, GCT Semiconductor, Inc. and MediaTek Inc. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater resources and name recognition, and a larger base of existing customers than us. In addition, recently there has been consolidation within the industry, notably the acquisition of smaller competitors by larger competitors. The significant resources of these larger competitors may allow them to respond more quickly than us to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements or to bring new products to market in a more timely manner than us. In addition, these competitors may have greater credibility with our existing and potential customers. Further, many of these competitors are located in Asia or have a significant presence and operating history in Asia and, as a result, may be in a better position than we are to work with manufacturers and customers located in Asia. Moreover, many of our competitors have been doing business with customers for a longer period of time and have well-established relationships, which may provide them with advantages, including access to information regarding future trends and requirements that may not be available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may provide incentives to customers or offer bundled solutions with complementary products, which could be attractive to some customers, or adopt more aggressive pricing policies, which may make it difficult for us to gain or maintain market share. Our ability to compete effectively will depend on a number of factors, including: • our ability to anticipate market and technology trends and successfully develop products that meet market needs; • our ability to deliver products in large volume on a timely basis at competitive prices; • our success in identifying and penetrating new markets, applications and customers; • our ability to accurately understand the price points and performance metrics of competing products in the market; • our products’ performance and cost-effectiveness relative to those of our competitors; 8 Table of Contents • our ability to develop and maintain relationships with key customers, wireless carriers, OEMs and ODMs; • our ability to secure sufficient high quality supply for our products; • our ability to conform to industry standards while developing new and proprietary technologies to offer products and features previously not available in the 4G market; and • our ability to recruit design and application engineers with expertise in wireless broadband communications technologies and sales and marketing personnel. If we experience material changes to the competitive structure of our industry due to cooperation or consolidation among our competitors, we may not increase or sustain our revenue or market share, which would harm our business. Our current or future competitors may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties. In addition, there has recently been consolidation within our industry, notably the acquisition of smaller competitors by larger competitors with significantly greater resources than ours. These events may result in the emergence of new competitors with greater resources and scale than ours that could acquire significant market share, which could result in a decline of our revenue and market share. Our ability to maintain our revenue and market share will depend on our ability to compete effectively despite material changes in industry structure. If we are unable to do so, we may not increase or sustain our revenue or market share, which would harm our business. If we are unable to effectively manage our business through periods of economic or market slow-down and any subsequent future growth, we may not be able to execute our business plan and our operating results could suffer. Our future operating results depend to a large extent on our ability to successfully manage our business through periods of economic or market slow-down and periods of subsequent expansion and growth. To manage our growth successfully and handle the responsibilities of being a public company, we believe we must, among other things, effectively: • recruit, hire, train and manage additional qualified engineers for our research and development activities, especially in the positions of design engineering, product and test engineering, and applications engineering; • add additional sales personnel and expand sales offices; • add additional finance and accounting personnel; • implement and improve our administrative, financial and operational systems, procedures and controls; and • enhance our information technology support for enterprise resource planning and design engineering by adapting and expanding our systems and tool capabilities, and properly training new hires as to their use. Furthermore, to remain competitive and manage further expansion and growth, we must carry out extensive research and development, which requires significant capital investment. During periods of economic or market slow-down we must also effectively manage our expenses to preserve our ability to carry out such research and development. While we decreased our operating expenses in 2012 compared to our increased operating expenses in 2011, we expect that our operating expenses in the first half of 2013 will remain fairly flat. If we are successful in introducing new LTE products, we expect we will need to increase our investment in research and development, as well as sales and marketing, general and administrative and other functions to support the growth of our business. We are likely to incur the costs associated with these increased investments earlier than some of the anticipated benefits and the return on these investments, if any, may be lower, may develop more slowly than we expect, or may not materialize at all, which could harm our operating results. If we are unable to manage our business during both periods of economic or market slow-down and growth effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities or develop new products and we may fail to satisfy customer requirements, maintain product quality, execute our business plan or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could harm our operating results. The average selling prices of our semiconductor solutions have historically decreased over time and will likely do so in the future, which could harm our gross profits and financial results. Average selling prices of our semiconductor solutions have historically decreased over time, and we expect such declines to continue to occur. Our gross profits and financial results will suffer if we are unable to offset reductions in our average selling prices by reducing our costs, developing new or enhanced semiconductor solutions on a timely basis with higher selling prices or gross profits, or increasing our sales volumes. Even if we are successful in reducing our costs or improving sales volumes, such improvements may not be sufficient to offset declines in average selling prices in the future. Additionally, because we do not operate our own manufacturing, assembly or testing facilities, we may not be able to reduce our costs and our costs may even increase, either 9 Table of Contents of which would reduce our margins. We have reduced the prices of our semiconductor solutions in line with and at times in advance of competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us or our competitors and other factors. We expect that we will have to do so again in the future. Any increase in the manufacturing cost of our products would reduce our gross margins and operating profit. The semiconductor business is characterized by ongoing competitive pricing pressure from customers and competitors. Accordingly, any increase in the cost of our products, whether by adverse purchase price or manufacturing cost variances or due to other factors, will reduce our gross margins and operating profit. We do not have long-term supply agreements with our manufacturing, test or assembly suppliers and we typically negotiate pricing on a purchase order by purchase order basis. Consequently, we may not be able to obtain price reductions or anticipate or prevent future price increases from our suppliers. Because we have a sole source of wafer supply and limited sources of test and assembly, we may not be able to negotiate favorable pricing terms from our suppliers. These and other related factors could impair our ability to control our costs and could harm our operating results. The semiconductor and communications industries have historically experienced significant fluctuations with prolonged downturns, which could impact our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. The semiconductor industry has historically been cyclical, experiencing significant downturns in customer demand. Because a significant portion of our expenses is fixed in the near term or is incurred in advance of anticipated sales, we may not be able to decrease our expenses rapidly enough to offset any unanticipated shortfall in revenue. If this situation occurs, it could harm our operating results, cash flow and financial condition. Furthermore, the semiconductor industry has periodically experienced periods of increased demand and production constraints. For example, in the third quarter of 2010, an unexpected sharp increase in demand for one of our products caused us to incur capacity utilization surcharges from our foundry, TSMC, in order to secure the necessary capacity and production of our semiconductor solutions in quantities and on a timeline sufficient to meet our customers’ expectations, resulting in increased costs and lower margins. If this occurs again, we may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of our semiconductor solutions to meet the increased demand, resulting in lost sales, loss of market share and harm to our customer relationships. We may also have difficulty in obtaining sufficient assembly and test resources from our subcontract manufacturers. Any factor adversely affecting the semiconductor industry in general, or the particular segments of the industry that we target, may harm our ability to generate revenue and could negatively impact our operating results. The communications industry has experienced pronounced downturns, and these cycles may continue in the future. A future decline in global economic conditions could have adverse, wide-ranging effects on demand for our semiconductor solutions and for the products of our customers, particularly wireless communications equipment manufacturers or other participants in the wireless industry, such as wireless carriers. Inflation, deflation and economic recessions that harm the global economy and capital markets also harm our customers and our end consumers. Specifically, the deployment of new 4G networks requires significant capital expenditures and wireless carriers may choose not to undertake network expansion efforts during an economic downturn or time of other economic uncertainty. Our customers’ ability to purchase or pay for our semiconductor solutions and services, obtain financing and upgrade wireless networks could be harmed, and networking equipment providers may slow their research and development activities, cancel or delay new product development, reduce their inventories and take a cautious approach to acquiring our products, which would have a significant negative impact on our business. If such economic situations were to occur, our operating results, cash flow and financial condition could be harmed. In the future, any of these trends may also cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly from year to year, which may increase the volatility of the price of the ADSs. Though we rely to a significant extent on proprietary intellectual property, we may not be able to obtain, or may chose not to obtain, sufficient intellectual property rights to provide us with meaningful protection or commercial advantage. We depend significantly on intellectual property rights to protect our products and proprietary technologies against misappropriation by others. We generally rely on the patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws in Europe, the United States and certain other countries in which we operate or in which our products are produced or sold, as well as licenses and nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements, to protect our intellectual property rights. We may have difficulty obtaining patents and other intellectual property rights, and the patents and other intellectual property rights we have and obtain may be insufficient to provide us with meaningful protection or commercial advantage. We currently do not apply for patent protection in all countries in which we operate. Instead we select and focus on key countries for each patent family. In addition, the protection offered by patents and other intellectual property rights may be inadequate or weakened for reasons or circumstances that are out of our control. For instance, we may not be able to obtain patent protection or secure other intellectual property rights in all the countries in which we have filed patent applications or in which we operate, and under the laws of such countries, patents and other intellectual property rights may be or become unavailable or limited in scope. 10 Table of Contents We may not be able to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property against improper use by our competitors or others and our efforts to do so may be costly to us, which may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our patents and patent applications, or those of our licensors, could face challenges, such as interference proceedings, opposition proceedings, nullification proceedings and re-examination proceedings. Any such challenge, if successful, could result in the invalidation or narrowing of the scope of any such patents and patent applications. Any such challenges, regardless of their success, would also likely be time-consuming and expensive to defend and resolve, and would divert management time and attention. Further, our unpatented proprietary processes, software, designs and trade secrets may be vulnerable to disclosure or misappropriation by employees, contractors and other persons. While we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with such persons to protect our intellectual property, we cannot assure you that our confidentiality agreements will not be breached, that they will provide meaningful protection for our proprietary technology and trade secrets or that adequate remedies will be available in the event they are used or disclosed without our authorization. Also, intellectual property rights are difficult to enforce in the People’s Republic of China, or PRC, and certain other countries, particularly in Asia, where the application and enforcement of the laws governing such rights may not have reached the same level as compared to other jurisdictions where we operate, such as Europe and the United States. Consequently, because we operate in these countries and all of our manufacturing, test and assembly takes place in Taiwan and Singapore, we may be subject to an increased risk that unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise use our intellectual property or the intellectual property of our suppliers or other parties with whom we engage or have licenses. There can be no assurance that we will be able to protect our intellectual property rights, that our intellectual property rights will not be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable, or that we will have adequate legal recourse in the event that we seek legal or judicial enforcement of our intellectual property rights. Any inability on our part to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may in the future initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our intellectual property rights to protect these rights or to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of competitors. These claims could result in costly litigation and the diversion of our technical and management personnel, and we may not prevail in making these claims. We or our customers may be required to obtain licenses for certain so-called “essential patents” in order to comply with applicable standards, which could require us to pay additional royalties on certain of our products. If we are unable to obtain such licenses, our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects would be harmed. We or our customers may be required to obtain licenses for third-party intellectual property. In particular, we may be required to obtain licenses to certain third-party patents, so-called “essential patents”, that claim features or functions that are incorporated into applicable industry standards and that we are required to provide in order to comply with the standard. If we need to license any third-party intellectual property, essential patents or other technology, we could be required to pay royalties on certain of our products. In addition, while the industry standards bodies and the antitrust laws in certain countries may require participating companies to license their essential patents on fair, reasonable, and nondiscriminatory terms, there can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Although we have implemented a dedicated standard essential patents licensing-in reference policy, our inability to obtain required third-party intellectual property licenses on commercially reasonable terms or at all could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects. If our customers are required to obtain such licenses, there can be no assurances that their businesses will not be adversely affected. In addition, if our competitors have significant numbers of essential patents and/or patent license rights, they could be at an advantage in negotiating with our customers or potential customers, which could influence our ability to win new business or could result in downward pressure on our average selling prices. Assertions by third parties of infringement by us or our customers of their intellectual property rights could result in significant costs and cause our operating results to suffer. The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapidly changing products and technologies and there is intense competition to establish intellectual property protection and proprietary rights to these new products and the related technologies. The semiconductor and wireless communications industries, in particular, are characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights and positions, which has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation for many companies. We may be unaware of the intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology, products and services. In addition, third parties may claim that we or our customers are infringing or contributing to the infringement of their intellectual property rights. 11 Table of Contents We have in the past received and, particularly as a public company operating in a highly competitive marketplace, we expect that in the future we will receive communications and offers from various industry participants and others alleging that we infringe or have misappropriated their patents, trade secrets or other intellectual property rights and/or inviting us to license their technology and intellectual property. Any lawsuits resulting from such allegations of infringement or invitations to license, including suits challenging the WiMAX or the LTE standards, could subject us to significant liability for damages and/or challenge our activities. Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to do one or more of the following: • stop selling products or using technology that contain the allegedly infringing intellectual property; • lose the opportunity to license our technology to others or to collect royalty payments based upon successful protection and assertion of our intellectual property against others; • incur significant legal expenses; • pay substantial damages to the party whose intellectual property rights we may be found to be infringing; • redesign those products that contain the allegedly infringing intellectual property; or • attempt to obtain a license to the relevant intellectual property from third parties, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. Our customers could also become the target of litigation relating to the patents and other intellectual property rights of others. This could, in turn, trigger an obligation for us to provide technical support and/or indemnify such customers. These obligations could result in substantial expenses, including the payment by us of costs and damages relating to claims of intellectual property infringement. In addition to the time and expense required for us to provide support or indemnification to our customers, any such litigation could disrupt the businesses of our customers, which in turn could hurt our relationships with our customers and cause the sale of our products to decrease. We cannot assure you that claims for indemnification will not be made or that if made, such claims would not materially harm our business, operating results or financial conditions. Any potential dispute involving our patents or other intellectual property could also include our industry partners and customers, which could trigger our indemnification obligations to them and result in substantial expense to us. In any potential dispute involving our patents or other intellectual property, our licensees could also become the target of litigation, and certain customers have received notices of written offers from our competitors and others claiming to have patent rights in certain technology and inviting our customers to license this technology. Because we indemnify our licensees and customers for intellectual property claims made against them for products incorporating our technology, any litigation could trigger technical support and indemnification obligations in some of our license agreements, which could result in substantial payments and expenses by us. In addition to the time and expense required for us to supply support or indemnification to our licensees and customers, any such litigation could severely disrupt or shut down the business of our customers, which in turn could hurt our relations with our customers and cause the sale of our proprietary technologies and products to decrease. Our failure to comply with obligations under open source licenses could require us to release our source code to the public or cease distribution of our products, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of the software used with our products, as well as that of some of our customers, may be derived from so-called “open source” software that is generally made available to the public by its authors and/or other third parties. Such open source software is often made available to us under licenses, such as the GNU General Public License, which impose certain obligations on us in the event we were to make available derivative works of the open source software. These obligations may require us to make source code for the derivative works available to the public, and/or license such derivative works under a particular type of license, rather than the licenses we customarily use to protect our intellectual property. In addition, there is little or no legal precedent for interpreting the terms of certain of these open source licenses, including the determination of which works are subject to the terms of such licenses. While we believe we have complied with our obligations under the various applicable licenses for open source software, in the event the copyright holder of any open source software were to successfully establish in court that we had not complied with the terms of a license for a particular work, we could be required to release the source code of that work to the public and/or stop distribution of that work. 12 Table of Contents The complexity of our semiconductor solutions could result in unforeseen delays or expenses from undetected defects or design errors in hardware or software, which could reduce the market acceptance for our semiconductor solutions, damage our reputation with current or prospective customers and increase our costs. Highly complex semiconductor solutions such as ours can contain defects and design errors, which, if significant, could impair performance or prevent compliance with industry standards. We have not in the past, but may in the future, experience such significant defects or design errors. In addition, our semiconductor solutions must be certified by individual wireless carriers that such solutions function properly on the carrier’s network before our solutions can be designed into a particular product. If any of our semiconductor solutions have reliability, quality or compatibility problems from defects or design errors we may not be able to successfully correct these problems in a timely manner, or at all. Furthermore, we may experience production delays and increased costs correcting such problems. Issues in the carrier certification process, which varies among carriers, may also create delays. Consequently, and because our semiconductor solutions are a critical component of our customers’ products, our reputation may be irreparably damaged and customers may be reluctant to buy our semiconductor solutions, which could harm our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers and harm our financial results. In addition, these defects or design errors or delays in the carrier certification process could interrupt or delay sales to our customers. If any of these problems are not found until after we have commenced commercial production of a new semiconductor solution, we may be required to incur additional development costs and product recalls, repairs or replacement costs. Furthermore, we provide warranties on our products ranging from one to two years, and thus may be obligated to refund sales with respect to products containing defects, errors or bugs. These problems may also result in claims against us by our customers or others, all of which could damage our reputation and increase our costs. The loss of any of our key personnel could seriously harm our business, and our failure to attract or retain specialized technical, management or sales and marketing employees could impair our ability to grow our business. We believe our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled management, engineering and sales and marketing personnel. The loss of any key employees or the inability to attract, retain or motivate qualified personnel, including engineers and sales and marketing personnel could delay the development and introduction of and harm our ability to sell our semiconductor solutions. We believe that our future success is dependent on the contributions of Georges Karam, our co-founder and chief executive officer, and Bertrand Debray, our co-founder and vice president, engineering. The loss of the services of Dr. Karam, Mr. Debray, other executive officers or certain other key personnel could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, if any of these individuals were to leave unexpectedly, we could face substantial difficulty in hiring qualified successors and could experience a loss in productivity during the search for any such successor and while any successor is integrated into our business and operations. Our key technical and engineering personnel represent a significant asset and serve as the source of our technological and product innovations. We plan to recruit additional design and application engineers with expertise in wireless broadband communications technologies. We may not be successful in attracting, retaining and motivating sufficient technical and engineering personnel to support our anticipated growth. In addition, to expand our customer base and increase sales to existing customers, we will need to hire additional qualified sales personnel. The competition for qualified marketing, sales, technical and engineering personnel in our industry is very intense. If we are unable to hire, train and retain qualified marketing, sales, technical and engineering personnel in a timely manner, our ability to grow our business will be impaired. In addition, if we are unable to retain our existing sales personnel, our ability to maintain or grow our current level of revenue will be harmed. Rapidly changing standards could make our semiconductor solutions obsolete, which would cause our operating results to suffer. We design our semiconductor solutions to conform to standards set by industry standards bodies such as the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. (IEEE), the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) and Open Mobile Alliance (OMA). We also depend on industry groups such as the WiMAX Forum™, an industry-led, non-profit corporation formed to help promote and certify the compatibility and interoperability of broadband wireless products, to certify and maintain certification of our semiconductor solutions as well as the Global Certification Forum (GCF) and the PTS Type Certification Review Board (PTCRB). If our customers adopt new or competing industry standards that are not compatible with our semiconductor solutions, if industry groups fail to adopt standards compatible with our semiconductor solutions or if our customers are requiring chip certifications that we did not design our products for, our existing semiconductor solutions would become less desirable to our customers and our sales would suffer. The emergence of markets for our products is affected by a variety of factors beyond our control. In particular, our semiconductor solutions are designed to conform to current specific industry standards. Competing standards may emerge that are preferred by our customers, which could also reduce our sales and require us to make significant expenditures to develop new semiconductor solutions. Governments and foreign regulators may adopt standards that are incompatible with our semiconductor solutions, favor alternative technologies or adopt stringent regulations that would impair or make commercially unviable the deployment of our semiconductor solutions. In addition, existing standards may be challenged as infringing upon the intellectual property rights of other companies or may become obsolete. 13 Table of Contents We outsource our assembly, testing, warehousing and shipping operations to third parties, and if these parties fail to produce and deliver our products in a timely manner and in accordance with our specifications, our reputation, customer relationships and operating results could suffer. We rely on third parties for the assembly, testing, warehousing and shipping of our products. We rely on United Test and Assembly Center Ltd., or UTAC, Siliconware Precision Industries Limited, or SPIL, StatschipPac Limited, or SPC, and other third-party assembly and test subcontractors for assembly and testing. We further rely on a single company for logistics and storage. We depend on these parties to supply us with material of a requested quantity in a timely manner that meets our standards for yield, cost and manufacturing quality. We are unable to maintain the same level of oversight and control of these outsourced operations as we would if we were to conduct them internally. The services provided by these vendors could be subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including natural disasters, such as earthquakes, labor disputes, power outages, or if our relationship with a vendor is damaged. If we experience problems at a particular location, we would be required to transfer the impacted services to a backup vendor, which could be costly and require a significant amount of time. During such a transition, we would be required to meet customer demand from our then-existing inventory, as well as any partially finished goods that can be modified to the required product specifications, which may not be possible or cost effective. Further, we do not have any long-term agreements with any of these vendors. If one or more of these vendors terminates its relationship with us, allocates capacity to other customers or if we encounter any problems with our supply chain, it could harm our ability to ship our products to our customers on time and in the quantity required, which in turn could cause an unanticipated decline in our sales and possibly damage our customer relationships. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to new wafer fabrication process technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration, which may result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased costs. To remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller geometries and to achieve higher levels of design integration. These ongoing efforts require us from time to time to modify the manufacturing processes for our semiconductor solutions and to redesign some solutions, which in turn may result in delays in product deliveries. We periodically evaluate the benefits of migrating to new process technologies to reduce cost and improve performance. We may face difficulties, delays and increased expenses as we transition our products to new processes. We depend on our relationship with TSMC and our test and assembly subcontractors to transition to new processes successfully. We cannot assure you that TSMC or our test and assembly subcontractors will be able to effectively manage the transition or that we will be able to maintain our relationship with TSMC or our test and assembly vendors or develop relationships with new foundries and vendors if necessary. If TSMC, any of our subcontractors or we experience significant delays in transitioning to smaller geometries or fail to efficiently implement transitions, we could experience reduced manufacturing yields, or delays in product deliveries and increased costs, all of which could harm our relationships with our customers, our margins and our operating results. As new processes become more prevalent, we expect to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as end-customer and third-party intellectual property, into our products. However, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely or cost-effective basis. Changes in current laws or regulations or the imposition of new laws or regulations could impede the sale of our products or otherwise harm our business. Wireless networks can only operate in the spectrum allowed by regulators and in accordance with rules governing how that spectrum can be used. Regulators in various countries have broad jurisdiction over the allocation of spectrum for wireless networks, and we therefore rely on these regulators to provide sufficient spectrum and usage rules. For example, countries such as China, India, Japan or Korea heavily regulate all aspects of their wireless communication industries, and may restrict spectrum allocation or usage. If further restrictions were to be imposed over the frequency bands where our semiconductor solutions are designed to operate, we may have difficulty selling our products in those regions. In addition, our semiconductor solutions operate in the 2.5 and 3.5 gigahertz, or GHz, bands, which in some countries is also used by government and commercial services such as military and commercial aviation. European and United States regulators have traditionally protected government uses of the 2.5 and 3.5 GHz bands by setting power limits and indoor and outdoor designation and requiring that wireless local area networking devices not interfere with other users of the band such as government and civilian satellite services. Changes in current laws or regulations or the imposition of new laws and regulations in the markets in which we operate regarding the allocation and usage of the 2.5 and 3.5 GHz band may harm the sale of our products and our business, financial condition and results of operations. Adverse outcomes in tax disputes could subject us to tax assessments and potential penalties. From time to time, we are subject to tax audits that could result in tax assessments and potential penalties, particularly with respect to claimed research tax credits due to the judgment involved in determining which projects meet the tax code’s criteria for innovation and fundamental research. For example, in December 2012, we were notified of proposed tax adjustments, penalties and interest related to a French tax audit totaling €827 thousand ($1.1 million). We disagree with essentially all of the proposed 14 Table of Contents adjustments and intend to vigorously defend our reporting position. Based on our assessment of the potential exposure in this dispute, we have recorded a provision for potential tax adjustments or penalties while we contest the proposed tax adjustments. However, our actual costs for this dispute or other disputes in the future may be materially different from the provisions recorded if we are not successful in our appeal of any assessment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. New regulations related to “conflict minerals” may force us to incur additional expenses, may result in damage to our business reputation and may adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. In August 2012, under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, the SEC adopted new requirements for companies that use certain minerals and derivative metals (referred to as “conflict minerals,” regardless of their actual country of origin) in their products. Some of these metals are commonly used in electronic equipment and devices, including our products. Depending on various circumstances, these new requirements will require companies to investigate, disclose and report whether or not such metals originated from the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries. We have an extremely complex supply chain, with numerous suppliers (many of whom are not obligated by the new law to investigate their own supply chains) for the components and parts used in each of our products. As a result, we may incur significant costs to comply with the diligence and disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the source of any of the relevant metals used in our products. In addition, because our supply chain is so complex, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origin of all the relevant metals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may harm our business reputation. We may also face difficulties in satisfying customers if they require that we prove or certify that our products are “conflict free.” Key components and parts that can be shown to be “conflict free” may not be available to us in sufficient quantity, or at all, or may only be available at significantly higher cost to us. If we are not able to meet customer requirements, customers may choose to disqualify us as a supplier. Any of these outcomes could adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates may harm our financial results. Our functional currency is the U.S. dollar. Substantially all of our sales are denominated in U.S. dollars and the payment terms of all of our significant supply chain vendors are also denominated in U.S. dollars. We incur operating expenses and hold assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, principally the euro, and to a lesser extent the British pound sterling, the Chinese yuan and the New Israeli shekel. As a result, our results of operations and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily the U.S. dollar to euro exchange rate. As we grow our operations, our exposure to foreign currency risk could become more significant. If there had been a 10% increase or decrease in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar to the euro, we estimate the impact, in absolute terms, on operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2012 would have been $2.2 million. Commencing in 2009, we entered into foreign currency hedging contracts primarily to reduce the impact of variations in the U.S. dollar to euro exchange rate on our operating expenses denominated in euros. However, hedging at best reduces volatility and helps to lock in a target rate for the following six to twelve months but cannot eliminate the fundamental exposure and may not be effective. Certain natural disasters, such as coastal flooding, large earthquakes or volcanic eruptions, may negatively impact our business. Any disruption to the operations of our foundry and assembly and test subcontractors could cause significant delays in the production or shipment of our products. If coastal flooding, a large earthquake, volcanic eruption or other natural disaster were to directly damage, destroy or disrupt TSMC’s manufacturing facilities or the facilities of our test and assembly contractors, it could disrupt our operations, delay new production and shipments of existing inventory or result in costly repairs, replacements or other costs, all of which would negatively impact our business. For example, substantially all of our semiconductor solutions are manufactured and assembled by third-party contractors located in Taiwan and Singapore. The risk of an earthquake or tsunami in Taiwan or Singapore, such as the major earthquakes that occurred in Taiwan in December 2006 and June 2003, and elsewhere in the Pacific Rim region is significant due to the proximity of major earthquake fault lines to the facilities of our foundry vendor and assembly and test subcontractors. Even if these facilities are not directly damaged, a large natural disaster may result in disruptions in distribution channels or supply chains. Although our third-party contractors did not suffer any significant damage as a result of the most recent earthquakes, the occurrence of additional earthquakes or other natural disasters could result in the disruption of our foundry vendor or assembly and test capacity. For instance, the recent earthquake and tsunami in Japan, though it did not directly cause damage to any of our third-party contractors, may impair the ability of such contractors to procure components from vendors in Japan, and alternative suppliers may not be available in a timely manner or at all, and may impair the ability of our customers to procure components other than ours that are necessary to their production process, which in turn could result in a slowing of their production and consequently of purchases of our products. Additionally, the dislocation of air transport services following volcanic eruptions in Iceland in April 2010 caused us delays in distribution of our semiconductor solutions. Any disruption resulting from such events could cause significant delays in the production or shipment of our semiconductor solutions as well as significant increases in our transportation costs until we are able to shift our manufacturing, assembling or testing from an affected contractor to an alternative vendor. 15 Table of Contents Our global operations are subject to risks for which we may not be adequately insured. Our global operations are subject to many risks including errors and omissions, infrastructure disruptions, such as large-scale outages or interruptions of service from utilities or telecommunications providers, supply chain interruptions, third-party liabilities and fires or natural disasters. No assurance can be given that we will not incur losses beyond the limits or outside the scope of coverage of our insurance policies. From time-to-time, various types of insurance may not be available on commercially acceptable terms or, in some cases, at all. We cannot assure you that in the future we will be able to maintain existing insurance coverage or that premiums will not increase substantially. We maintain limited insurance coverage and in some cases no coverage for natural disasters and sudden and accidental environmental damages as these types of insurance are sometimes not available or available only at a prohibitive cost. Accordingly, we may be subject to an uninsured or under-insured loss in such situations. Risks Related to Our Shares and ADSs and the Trading of our ADSs Fluctuations in our operating results on a quarterly or annual basis and difficulty predicting our quarterly operating results could cause the market price of the ADSs to decline. Our revenue and operating results have fluctuated significantly from period to period in the past and will do so in the future. As a result, you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of our operating results as an indication of our future performance. In future periods, our revenue and results of operations may be below the expectations of analysts and investors, which could cause the market price of the ADSs to decline. Factors that may cause our operating results to fluctuate include: • reductions in orders or cancellations by our customers; • changes in the size, growth or growth prospects of the LTE and WiMAX markets; • changes in the competitive dynamics of our market, including new entrants or pricing pressures, and our ability to compete in the LTE market; • timing and success of commercial deployments of and upgrades to 4G wireless networks; • timely availability, at a reasonable cost, of adequate manufacturing capacity with the sole foundry that manufactures our products; • our ability to successfully define, design and release new products in a timely manner that meet our customers’ needs; • timing and growth rate of revenues from the LTE market; • changes in manufacturing costs, including wafer, test and assembly costs, mask costs and manufacturing yields; • the timing of product announcements by competitors or us; and • costs associated with litigation, especially related to intellectual property. Moreover, sales of our semiconductor solutions fluctuate from period to period due to cyclicality in the semiconductor industry and the short product life cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand characteristic of this industry. We expect these cyclical conditions to continue. Due to our limited operating history, we have yet to experience an established pattern of seasonality. However, business activities in Asia generally slow down in the first quarter of each year during the lunar new year period, which could harm our sales and results of operations during the period. Our expense levels are relatively fixed in the short-term and are based, in part, on our future revenue projections. If revenue levels are below our expectations, we may experience declines in margins and profitability or incur a loss from our operations. As a result, our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict, even in the near term, which may result in our revenue and results of operations being below the expectations of analysts and investors and which could cause the market price of the ADSs to decline. If securities or industry analysts cease to publish research reports about us or our industry, or if they adversely change their recommendations regarding the ADSs, the market price for the ADSs and trading volume could decline. The trading market for the ADSs is influenced by research reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our industry. If one or more analysts who cover us downgrade the ADSs, the market price for the ADSs would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which, in turn, could cause the market price or trading volume for the ADSs to decline. 16 Table of Contents We have no present intention to pay dividends on our ordinary shares in the foreseeable future and, consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment during that time is if the price of the ADSs appreciates. We have no present intention to pay dividends on our ordinary shares in the foreseeable future. Any recommendation by our board of directors to pay dividends will depend on many factors, including our financial condition, results of operations, legal requirements and other factors. Accordingly, if the price of the ADSs falls in the foreseeable future, you will incur a loss on your investment, without the likelihood that this loss will be offset in part or at all by potential future cash dividends. In addition, even if we were to pay a dividend on our ordinary shares, French law may prohibit paying such dividends to holders of the ADSs or the tax implications of such payments may significantly diminish what you receive. French law may limit the amount of dividends we are able to distribute and exchange rate fluctuations may reduce the amount of U.S. dollars you receive in respect of any dividends or other distributions we may pay in the future in connection with your ADSs. Although our consolidated financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, under French law, the determination of whether we have been sufficiently profitable to pay dividends is made on the basis of our unconsolidated annual financial statements under the French commercial code in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in France, which we refer to as French GAAP. See “Item 10.B—Memorandum and Articles of Association” for further details on the limitations on our ability to declare and pay dividends. Therefore, we may be more restricted in our ability to declare dividends than companies not based in France. In addition, exchange rate fluctuations may affect the amount of euros that we are able to distribute, and the amount in U.S. dollars that our shareholders receive upon the payment of cash dividends or other distributions we declare and pay in euros, if any. These factors could harm the value of the ADSs, and, in turn, the U.S. dollar proceeds that holders receive from the sale of the ADSs. You may not be able to exercise your right to vote the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs. Holders of ADSs may exercise voting rights with respect to the ordinary shares represented by the ADSs only in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. The deposit agreement provides that, upon receipt of notice of any meeting of holders of our ordinary shares, the depositary will, as soon as practicable thereafter, fix a record date for the determination of ADS holders who shall be entitled to give instructions for the exercise of voting rights. Upon timely receipt of notice from us, if we so request, the depositary shall distribute to the holders as of the record date (i) the notice of the meeting or solicitation of consent or proxy sent by us and (ii) a statement as to the manner in which instructions may be given by the holders. You may instruct the depositary of your ADSs to vote the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs. Otherwise, you will not be able to exercise your right to vote, unless you withdraw the ordinary shares underlying the ADSs you hold. However, you may not know about the meeting far enough in advance to withdraw those ordinary shares. If we ask for your instructions, the depositary, upon timely notice from us, will notify you of the upcoming vote and arrange to deliver our voting materials to you. We cannot guarantee you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your ordinary shares or to withdraw your ordinary share so that you can vote them yourself. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of carrying out voting instructions. This means that you may not be able to exercise your right to vote, and there may be nothing you can do if the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs are not voted as you requested. You may be subject to limitations on the transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs, which may be evidenced by ADRs, are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. The depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of your ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary think it is advisable to do so because of any requirement of law, government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. As a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from a number of rules under the U.S. securities laws and are permitted to file less information with the SEC than a U.S. company; our ordinary shares are not listed, and we do not intend to list our shares, on any market in France, our home country. This may limit the information available to holders of the ADSs. We are a “foreign private issuer”, as defined in the SEC’s rules and regulations and, consequently, we are not subject to all of the disclosure requirements applicable to public companies organized within the United States. For example, we are exempt from certain rules under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, that regulate disclosure obligations and procedural requirements related to the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations applicable to a security registered under the Exchange Act, including the U.S. proxy rules under Section 14 of the Exchange Act. In addition, our officers and directors are exempt from the reporting and “short-swing” profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and related rules with respect to their purchases and sales of our securities. Moreover, while we have and expect to continue to submit quarterly interim consolidated financial data to the SEC under cover of the SEC’s Form 6-K, we are not required to file periodic reports and financial statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as U.S. public companies and are not required to file quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K under the Exchange Act. Furthermore, our ordinary shares are not listed and we do not currently 17 Table of Contents intend to list our ordinary shares on any market in France, our home country. As a result, we are not subject to the reporting and other requirements of listed companies in France. For instance, we are not required to publish quarterly or semi-annual financial statements. Accordingly, there is less publicly available information concerning our company than there would be if we were a U.S. public company. As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted to adopt certain home country practices in relation to corporate governance matters that differ significantly from NYSE corporate governance listing standards. These practices may afford less protection to shareholders than they would enjoy if we complied fully with NYSE corporate governance listing standards. As a foreign private issuer listed on the NYSE, we are subject to NYSE corporate governance listing standards. However, NYSE rules permit a foreign private issuer like us to follow the corporate governance practices of its home country. Certain corporate governance practices in France, which is our home country, may differ significantly from NYSE corporate governance listing standards. For example, neither the corporate laws of France nor our by-laws require a majority of our directors to be independent and we could include non-independent directors as members of our compensation committee and nominating committee, and our independent directors would not necessarily hold regularly scheduled meetings at which only independent directors are present. Currently, we intend to comply with the NYSE corporate governance listing standards to the extent possible under French law. However, if we choose to change such practice to follow home country practice in the future, our shareholders may be afforded less protection than they otherwise would under NYSE corporate governance listing standards applicable to U.S. domestic issuers. U.S. holders of the ADSs may suffer adverse tax consequences if we are characterized as a Passive Foreign Investment Company. Generally, if for any taxable year 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or at least 50% of our assets are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, we would be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. To determine if at least 50% of our assets are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, we may use the market capitalization method for certain periods. Under the market capitalization method, the total asset value of a company would be considered to equal the fair market value of its outstanding shares plus outstanding indebtedness on a relevant testing date. Because the market price of the ADSs has fluctuated substantially and is likely to fluctuate in the future, and the market price may affect the determination of whether we will be considered a PFIC, there can be no assurance that we will not be considered a PFIC for any taxable year. While we do not believe we were a PFIC for 2012, there is no assurance that we will not be a PFIC in 2013 or later years. If we are characterized as a PFIC, U.S. holders of the ADSs may suffer adverse tax consequences, including having gains realized on the sale of the ADSs treated as ordinary income, rather than capital gain, the loss of the preferential rate applicable to dividends received on the ADSs by individuals who are U.S. holders, having interest charges apply to distributions by us and the proceeds of ADS sales and additional reporting requirements. We do not expect to provide to U.S. holders the information needed to report income and gain pursuant to a “qualified electing fund” election, which election would alleviate some of the adverse tax consequences of PFIC status, and we make no undertaking to provide such information in the event that we are a PFIC. See “Item 10.E—Taxation—Material United States Federal Income Tax Consequences.” You may be unable to recover in civil proceedings for U.S. securities laws violations. We are a corporation organized under the laws of France. The majority of our directors are citizens and residents of countries other than the United States, and the majority of our assets are located outside of the United States. Accordingly, it may be difficult for investors to obtain jurisdiction over us or our directors in courts in the United States and enforce against us or them judgments obtained against us or them. In addition, we cannot assure you that civil liabilities predicated upon the federal securities laws of the United States will be enforceable in France. The rights of shareholders in companies subject to French corporate law differ in material respects from the rights of shareholders of corporations incorporated in the United States. We are a French company with limited liability. Our corporate affairs are governed by our by-laws and by the laws governing companies incorporated in France. The rights of shareholders and the responsibilities of members of our board of directors are in many ways different from the rights and obligations of shareholders in companies governed by the laws of U.S. jurisdictions. For example, in the performance of its duties, our board of directors is required by French law to consider the interests of our company, its shareholders, its employees and other stakeholders, rather than solely our shareholders and/or creditors. It is possible that some of these parties will have interests that are different from, or in addition to, your interests as a stockholder. See “Item 6.C—Board Practices” and “Item 10.B—Memorandum and Articles of Association.” Our by-laws and French corporate law contain provisions that may delay or discourage a takeover attempt. Provisions contained in our by-laws and the corporate laws of France, the country in which we are incorporated, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our shareholders. In addition, provisions of our 18 Table of Contents by-laws impose various procedural and other requirements, which could make it more difficult for shareholders to effect certain corporate actions. These provisions include the following: • our shares are in registered form only and we must be notified of any transfer of our shares in order for such transfer to be validly registered; • our by-laws provide for directors to be elected for three year terms, and we intend to elect approximately one third of the directors every year; • our shareholders may grant our board of directors broad authorizations to increase our share capital; • our board of directors has the right to appoint directors to fill a vacancy created by the resignation, death or removal of a director, subject to the approval by the shareholders of such appointment at the next shareholders’ meeting, which prevents shareholders from having the sole right to fill vacancies on our board of directors; • our board of directors can only be convened by its chairman except when no board meeting has been held for more than two consecutive months; • our board of directors meetings can only be regularly held if at least half of the directors attend either physically or by way of secured telecommunications; • approval of at least a majority of the shares entitled to vote at an ordinary shareholders’ general meeting is required to remove directors with or without cause; • advance notice is required for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at a shareholders’ meeting; and • the sections of the by-laws relating to the number of directors and election and removal of a director from office may only be modified by a resolution adopted by 66 2/3% of our shareholders present or represented at the meeting. The exercise or conversion of outstanding stock options, founders warrants and warrants into ordinary shares will dilute the percentage ownership of our other shareholders and the sale of such shares may adversely affect the market price of the ADSs. As of December 31, 2012, there are outstanding stock options, founders warrants and warrants to purchase an aggregate of approximately 4.7 million of our ordinary shares and more options and warrants will likely be granted in the future to our officers, directors, employees and consultants. We may issue additional warrants in connection with acquisitions, borrowing arrangement or other strategic or financial transactions. The exercise of outstanding stock options will dilute the percentage ownership of our other shareholders. The exercise of these options and warrants and the subsequent sale of the underlying ordinary shares could cause a decline in the market price of the ADSs. If we raise additional capital in the future, your ownership in us could be diluted. Any issuance of equity we may undertake in the future to raise additional capital could cause the price of the ADSs to decline, or require us to issue shares or ADSs at a price that is lower than that paid by holders of our shares or ADSs in the past, which would result in those newly issued shares or ADSs being dilutive. If we obtain funds through a credit facility or through the issuance of debt or preferred securities, these securities would likely have rights senior to your rights as an ADS holder, which could impair the value of the ADSs. 