Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider and read carefully all of the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the consolidated financial statements and the related notes to consolidated financial statements. If any of the following events actually occur, our business, business prospects, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially affected. In any such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The metals industry, including silicon-based metals, is cyclical and has been subject in the past to swings in market price and demand which could lead to volatility in our revenues. Our business has historically been subject to fluctuations in the price of our products and market demand for them, caused by general and regional economic cycles, raw material and energy price fluctuations, competition and other factors. Historically, our subsidiary, Globe Metallurgical, Inc., has been particularly affected by recessionary conditions in the end-markets for its products, such as automotive and construction. In April 2003, Globe Metallurgical, Inc. sought protection under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code following its inability to restructure or refinance its indebtedness in light of the confluence of several negative economic and other factors, including an influx of low-priced, dumped imports, which caused it to default on then-outstanding indebtedness. A recurrence of such economic factors could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, condition (financial or otherwise) and results of operations. In calendar 2009, the global silicon metal and silicon-based alloys industries suffered from unfavorable market conditions. The weakened economic environment of national and international metals markets that occurred during that time may return; any decline in the global silicon metal and silicon-based alloys industries could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, condition (financial or otherwise), and results of operations. In addition, our business is directly related to the production levels of our customers, whose businesses are dependent on highly cyclical markets, such as the automotive, residential and nonresidential construction, consumer durables, polysilicon, steel, and chemical markets. In response to unfavorable market conditions, customers may request delays in contract shipment dates or other contract modifications. If we grant modifications, these could adversely affect our anticipated revenues and results of operations. Also, many of our products are internationally traded products with prices that are significantly affected by worldwide supply and demand. Consequently, our financial performance will fluctuate with the general economic cycle, which could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, condition (financial or otherwise) and results of operations. Our business is particularly sensitive to increases in energy costs, which could materially increase our cost of production. Electricity is one of our largest production cost components, comprising approximately 21% of cost of goods sold. The level of power consumption of our submerged electric arc furnaces is highly dependent on which products are being produced and typically fall in the following ranges: (i) silicon-based alloys require between 3.5 and 8 megawatt hours to produce one MT of product and (ii) silicon metal requires approximately 11 megawatt hours to produce one MT of product. Accordingly, consistent access to low cost, reliable sources of electricity is essential to our business. Electrical power to our U.S. and Canada facilities is supplied mostly by AEP, Alabama Power, Brookfield Power, Hydro Quebec, Tennessee Valley Authority and Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation through dedicated lines. Our Alloy, West Virginia facility obtains approximately 45% of its power needs under a fixed-price contract with a nearby dedicated hydroelectric facility. This facility is over 70 years old and any breakdown could result in the Alloy facility having to pay much higher rates for electric power from third parties. Our energy supply for our facilities located in Argentina is supplied through the Edemsa hydroelectric facilities located in Mendoza, Argentina. Our contract expired in October 2009; we are currently operating under a month-to-month arrangement. Because energy constitutes such a high percentage of our production costs, we are particularly vulnerable to cost fluctuations in the energy industry. Accordingly, the termination or non-renewal of any of our energy contracts, or an increase in the price of energy could materially adversely affect our future earnings, if any, and may prevent us from effectively competing in our markets. Losses caused by disruptions in the supply of power would reduce our profitability. Our operations are heavily dependent upon a reliable supply of electrical power. We may incur losses due to a temporary or prolonged interruption of the supply of electrical power to our facilities, which can be caused by unusually high demand, blackouts, equipment failure, natural disasters or other catastrophic events, including failure of the hydroelectric facilities that currently provide power under contract to our West Virginia, New York, Quebec and Argentina facilities. Large amounts of electricity are used to produce silicon metal and silicon-based alloys, and any interruption or reduction in the supply of electrical power would adversely affect production levels and result in reduced profitability. Our insurance coverage does not cover all events and may not be sufficient to cover any or all losses. Certain of our insurance policies will not cover any losses that may be incurred if our suppliers are unable to provide power during periods of unusually high demand. Investments in Argentina’s electricity generation and transmission systems have been lower than the increase in demand in recent years. If this trend is not reversed, there could be electricity supply shortages as the result of inadequate generation and transmission capacity. Given the heavy dependence on electricity of our manufacturing operations, any electricity shortages could adversely affect our financial results. Government regulations of electricity in Argentina give priority access of hydroelectric power to residential users and subject violators of these restrictions to significant penalties. This preference is particularly acute during Argentina’s winter months due to a lack of natural gas. We have previously successfully petitioned the government to exempt us from these restrictions given the demands of our business for continuous supply of electric power. If we are unsuccessful in our petitions or in any action we take to ensure a stable supply of electricity, our production levels may be adversely affected and our profitability reduced. Any decrease in the availability, or increase in the cost, of raw materials or transportation could materially increase our costs. Principal components in the production of silicon metal and silicon-based alloys include metallurgical-grade coal, charcoal, carbon electrodes, quartzite, wood chips, steel scrap, and other metals, such as magnesium. We buy some raw materials on a spot basis. We are dependent on certain suppliers of these products, their labor union relationships, mining and lumbering regulations and output and general local economic conditions, in order to obtain raw materials in a cost efficient and timely manner. An increase in costs of raw materials or transportation, or the decrease in their production or deliverability in a timely fashion, or other disruptions in production, could result in increased costs to us and lower productivity levels. We may not be able to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials from alternative sources on terms as favorable as our current arrangements or at all. Any increases in the price or shortfall in the production and delivery of raw materials, could materially adversely affect our business prospects, condition (financial or otherwise) or results of operation. Cost increases in raw material inputs may not be passed on to our customers, which could negatively impact our profitability. The availability and prices of raw material inputs may be influenced by supply and demand, changes in world politics, unstable governments in exporting nations and inflation. The market prices of our products and raw material inputs are subject to change. We may not be able to pass a significant amount of increased input costs on to our customers. Additionally, we may not be able to obtain lower prices from our suppliers should our sale prices decrease. Compliance with and changes in environmental laws, including proposed climate change laws and regulations, could adversely affect our performance. The principal environmental risks associated with our operations are emissions into the air and releases into the soil, surface water, or groundwater. Our operations are subject to extensive foreign, federal, state, provincial and local environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to the discharge of materials into the environment, waste management, pollution prevention measures and greenhouse gas emissions. If we violate or fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned. Because environmental laws and regulations are becoming more stringent and new environmental laws and regulations are continuously being enacted or proposed, such as those relating to greenhouse gas emissions and climate change, the level of expenditures required for environmental matters could increase in the future. Future legislative action and regulatory initiatives could result in changes to operating permits, additional remedial actions, material changes in operations, increased capital expenditures and operating costs, increased costs of the goods we sell, and decreased demand for our products that cannot be assessed with certainty at this time. Some of the proposed federal cap-and-trade legislation would require businesses that emit greenhouse gases to buy emission credits from the government, other businesses, or through an auction process. As a result of such a program, we may be required to purchase emission credits for greenhouse gas emissions resulting from our operations. Although it is not possible at this time to predict the final form of a cap-and-trade bill (or whether such a bill will be passed), any new restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions – including a cap-and-trade program – could result in material increased compliance costs, additional operating restrictions for our business, and an increase in the cost of the products we produce, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and liquidity. Several Canadian provinces have implemented cap-and-trade programs. Our facility in Canada may be required to purchase emission credits in the future which could result in material increased compliance costs, additional operating restrictions for our business, and an increase in the cost of the products we produce, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and liquidity. 8 We make a significant portion of our sales to a limited number of customers, and the loss of a portion of the sales to these customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profits. In the year ended June 30, 2014, we made approximately 48% of our consolidated net sales to our top ten customers and approximately 27% to our two top customers (10%, excluding sales made under our joint venture agreements with Dow Corning). We expect that we will continue to derive a significant portion of our business from sales to these customers. If we were to experience a significant reduction in the amount of sales we make to some or all of these customers and could not replace these sales with sales to other customers, it could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profits. On April 13, 2014, one of our customers, Momentive Performance Materials (“MPM”), filed for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code. There is a risk, as part of the bankruptcy process, that MPM will not pay its accounts payable to us in whole or that its payments to us may be delayed. This would increase our exposure to losses from bad debts and could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. In addition, if MPM were to significantly reduce its business, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our U.S.-based businesses benefit from U.S. antidumping duties and laws that protect U.S. companies by taxing unfairly traded imports from foreign companies. If these duties or laws change, foreign companies will be able to compete more effectively with us. Conversely, our foreign operations may be adversely affected by these U.S. duties and laws. Antidumping duties are currently in place in the United States covering silicon metal imports from China and Russia. In addition, antidumping and countervailing duties are in place in Canada covering imports of Chinese silicon metal into that country. Antidumping orders normally benefit domestic producers by reducing the volume of unfairly traded imports and increasing market prices and sales of the domestic product. In the United States, rates of duty can change as a result of “administrative reviews” of antidumping orders. These orders can also be revoked as a result of periodic “sunset reviews,” which determine whether the orders will continue to apply to imports from particular countries. Antidumping and countervailing duties in Canada also are subject to periodic reviews. A sunset review of the U.S. order covering imports from China completed in 2012 resulted in that order remaining in place for an additional five years. However, the current orders may not remain in effect and continue to be enforced from year to year, the goods and countries now covered by antidumping and countervailing duty orders may no longer be covered, and duties may not continue to be assessed at the same rates. Changes in any of these factors could adversely affect our business and profitability. Finally, at times, in filing trade actions, we find ourselves acting against the interests of our customers. Some of our customers may not continue to do business with us because of our having filed a trade action. Antidumping and countervailing duty rules may, conversely, also adversely impact our foreign operations. We may be unable to successfully integrate and develop our prior and future acquisitions. We acquired six private companies between November 2006 and June 2011, entered into business combinations in May 2008 and November 2013, and entered into joint venture agreements in November 2009 and June 2012. In addition, we purchased the remaining 50% interest in an existing equity investment to become the sole owner in December 2012. We expect to acquire additional companies in the future. Integration of our prior and future acquisitions with our existing business is a complex, time-consuming and costly process requiring the employment of additional personnel, including key management and accounting personnel. Additionally, the integration of these acquisitions with our existing business may require significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. Unanticipated problems, delays, costs or liabilities may also be encountered in the development of these acquisitions. Failure to successfully and fully integrate and develop these businesses and operations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The difficulties of combining the acquired operations include, among other things: • operating a significantly larger combined organization; • coordinating geographically disparate organizations, systems and facilities; • consolidating corporate technological and administrative functions; • integrating internal controls and other corporate governance matters; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • unexpected customer or key employee loss from the acquired businesses; • hiring additional management and other critical personnel; • negotiating with labor unions; • a significant increase in our indebtedness; and • potential environmental or regulatory liabilities and title problems. In addition, we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from any prior and future acquisitions, such as increased earnings, cost savings and revenue enhancements, for various reasons, including difficulties integrating operations and personnel, higher than expected acquisition and operating costs, unknown liabilities, inaccurate reserve estimates and fluctuations in markets. If these benefits do not meet the expectations of financial or industry analysts, the market price of our shares may decline. We are subject to the risk of union disputes and work stoppages at our facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our hourly employees at our Selma, Alabama facility are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the Industrial Division of the Communications Workers of America, under a contract running through April 2, 2017. Our hourly employees at our Alloy, West Virginia, Niagara Falls, New York and Bridgeport, Alabama facilities are covered by collective bargaining agreements with The United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union under contracts running through April 27, 2017, July 30, 2017, and March 31, 2015, respectively. Our union employees in Argentina are working under a contract running through April 30, 2015. Our union employees in Canada work at the Bécancour, Québec, plant and are covered by a Union Certification held by the Communications, Energy and Paper Workers Union of Canada (“CEP”), Local 184. The corresponding collective bargaining agreement at our Bécancour facility expired on April 30, 2013 and by effect of a “bridging clause” continued to apply until the union or the Company exercised its right to strike a lockout. We exercised such a right and declared a lockout on May 3, 2013. The lockout remained in effect until December 27, 2013. The CEP, Local 184 and the Company continued bargaining throughout this period with the assistance of a conciliator appointed by the Ministry of Labour. On December 21, 2013, the parties reached an agreement in principle on the new terms of a collective agreement which was put to a ratification vote of the union membership on December 27, 2013. The proposed collective agreement was ratified with a vote of 76%. The collective agreement was executed by the parties on January 3, 2014 with retroactive effect to January 1, 2014. The lockout was lifted by the Company upon the date of ratification of the collective agreement. On January 3, 2014, the plant began to normalize operations, according to the terms of a back-to-work protocol agreed to by the parties. Since that time, the new collective agreement has been in place and will run through April 30, 2017. New labor contracts will have to be negotiated to replace expiring contracts from time to time. If we are unable to satisfactorily renegotiate those labor contracts on terms acceptable to us or without a strike or work stoppage, the effects on our business could be materially adverse. Any strike or work stoppage could disrupt production schedules and delivery times, adversely affecting sales. In addition, existing labor contracts may not prevent a strike or work stoppage, and any such work stoppage could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are dependent on key personnel. Our operations depend to a significant degree on the continued employment of our core senior management team. In particular, we are dependent on the skills, knowledge and experience of Alan Kestenbaum, our Executive Chairman, Jeff Bradley, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer, Joseph Ragan, our Chief Financial Officer, and Stephen Lebowitz, our Chief Legal Officer. If these employees are unable to continue in their respective roles, or if we are unable to attract and retain other skilled employees, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We currently have employment agreements with Alan Kestenbaum, Jeff Bradley, Joseph Ragan and Stephen Lebowitz, each of which contains non-compete provisions. Such provisions may not be enforceable by us. Additionally, we are substantially dependent upon key personnel in our financial and information technology staff that enables us to meet our regulatory, contractual and financial reporting obligations, including reporting requirements under our credit facilities. 9 Metals manufacturing is an inherently dangerous activity. Metals manufacturing generally, and smelting, in particular, is inherently dangerous and subject to fire, explosion and sudden major equipment failure. This can and has resulted in accidents resulting in the serious injury or death of production personnel and prolonged production shutdowns. We have experienced fatal accidents and equipment malfunctions in our manufacturing facilities in recent years, including a fire at our Bridgeport, Alabama facility in November 2011 and a fatality at our Selma, Alabama facility in October 2012, and may experience fatal accidents or equipment malfunctions again, which could materially affect our business and operations. Our mining operations are subject to risks that are beyond our control, which could result in materially increased expenses and decreased production levels. We mine coal and quartzite at underground and surface mining operations. Certain factors beyond our control could disrupt our mining operations, adversely affect production and shipments and increase our operating costs, such as: a major incident at the mine site that causes all or part of the operations of the mine to cease for some period of time; mining, processing and plant equipment failures and unexpected maintenance problems; changes in reclamation costs; and, adverse weather and natural disasters, such as heavy rains or snow, flooding and other natural events affecting operations, transportation or customers. For example, the recent installation of additional capacity at our quartz mine in Alabama took longer and was more costly than expected. Federal or state regulatory agencies have the authority under certain circumstances following significant health and safety incidents, such as fatalities, to order a mine to be temporarily or permanently closed. If this occurred, we may be required to incur capital expenditures to re-open the mine. Environmental regulations could impose costs on our mining operations, and future regulations could increase those costs or add new costs or limit our ability to produce and sell coal. Our failure to obtain and renew permits necessary for our mining operations could negatively affect our business. Equipment failures may lead to production curtailments or shutdowns. Many of our business activities are characterized by substantial investments in complex production facilities and manufacturing equipment. Because of the complex nature of our production facilities, any interruption in manufacturing resulting from fire, explosion, industrial accidents, natural disaster, equipment failures or otherwise could cause significant losses in operational capacity and could materially and adversely affect our business and operations. We depend on proprietary manufacturing processes and software. These processes may not yield the cost savings that we anticipate and our proprietary technology may be challenged. We rely on proprietary technologies and technical capabilities in order to compete effectively and produce high quality silicon metals and silicon-based alloys. Some of these proprietary technologies that we rely on are: • computerized technology that monitors and controls production furnaces; • production software that monitors the introduction of additives to alloys, allowing the precise formulation of the chemical composition of products; and • flowcaster equipment, which maintains certain characteristics of silicon-based alloys as they are cast. We are subject to a risk that: • we may not have sufficient funds to develop new technology and to implement effectively our technologies as competitors improve their processes; • if implemented, our technologies may not work as planned; and • our proprietary technologies may be challenged and we may not be able to protect our rights to these technologies. Patent or other intellectual property infringement claims may be asserted against us by a competitor or others. Our intellectual property may not be enforceable, and it may not prevent others from developing and marketing competitive products or methods. An infringement action against us may require the diversion of substantial funds from our operations and may require management to expend efforts that might otherwise be devoted to operations. A successful challenge to the validity of any of our proprietary intellectual property may subject us to a significant award of damages, or we may be enjoined from using our proprietary intellectual property, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and continuing technological advancement to maintain our competitive position. We may not be able to effectively protect our rights to unpatented trade secrets and know-how. We are subject to environmental, health and safety regulations, including laws that impose substantial costs and the risk of material liabilities. We are subject to extensive foreign, federal, national, state, provincial and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, the generation, discharge, emission, storage, handling, transportation, use, treatment and disposal of hazardous substances; land use, reclamation and remediation; and the health and safety of our employees. We are also required to obtain permits from governmental authorities for certain operations. We may not have been and may not be at all times in complete compliance with such laws, regulations and permits. If we violate or fail to comply with these laws, regulations or permits, we could be subject to penalties, fines, restrictions on operations or other sanctions. Under these laws, regulations and permits, we could also be held liable for any and all consequences arising out of human exposure to hazardous substances or environmental damage we may cause or that relates to our operations or properties. For example, we are subject to federal and state regulations that require payment of benefits related to black lung disease in coal miners, and our exposure may significantly increase if new or additional legislation is enacted at the federal or state level. Under certain environmental laws, we could be required to remediate or be held responsible for all of the costs relating to any contamination at our or our predecessors’ past or present facilities and at third party waste disposal sites. We could also be held liable under these environmental laws for sending or arranging for hazardous substances to be sent to third party disposal or treatment facilities if such facilities are found to be contaminated. Under these laws we could be held liable even if we did not know of, or were not responsible for, such contamination, or even if we never owned or operated the contaminated disposal or treatment facility. There are a variety of laws and regulations in place or being considered at the international, federal, regional, state and local levels of government that restrict or are reasonably likely to restrict the emission of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases. These legislative and regulatory developments may cause us to incur material costs if we are required to reduce or offset greenhouse gas emissions and may result in a material increase in our energy costs due to additional regulation of power generators. Environmental laws are complex, change frequently and are likely to become more stringent in the future. Therefore, our costs of complying with current and future environmental laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We operate in a highly competitive industry. The silicon-based alloy and silicon metal markets are capital intensive and competitive. Our primary competitors are Elkem AS, owned by China National Bluestar Group Co. Ltd., Grupo Ferroatlantica S.L. and various producers in China. Our competitors may have greater financial resources, as well as other strategic advantages to maintain, improve and possibly expand their facilities; and as a result, they may be better positioned to adapt to changes in the industry or the global economy. The advantages that our competitors have over us could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, new entrants may increase competition in our industry, which could materially adversely affect our business. An increase in the use of substitutes for certain of our products also could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. 10 We have historically operated at near the maximum capacity of our operating facilities. Because the cost of increasing capacity may be prohibitively expensive, we may have difficulty increasing our production and profits. Our facilities are able to manufacture, collectively, approximately 100,000 MT of silicon metal (excluding Dow Corning’s portion of the capacity of our Alloy, West Virginia and Becancour, Quebec plants) and 175,000 MT of silicon-based alloys on an annual basis. Our ability to increase production and revenues will depend on expanding existing facilities or opening new ones. Increasing capacity is difficult because: • adding new production capacity to an existing silicon plant to produce approximately 30,000 MT of metallurgical grade silicon would cost approximately $120,000,000 and take at least 12 to 18 months to complete once permits are obtained, which could take more than a year; • a greenfield development project would take at least three to five years to complete and would require significant capital expenditure and environmental compliance costs; and • obtaining sufficient and dependable power at competitive rates near areas with the required natural resources is difficult to accomplish. We may not have sufficient funds to expand existing facilities or open new ones and may be required to incur significant debt to do so, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to restrictive covenants under credit facilities. These covenants could significantly affect the way in which we conduct our business. Our failure to comply with these covenants could lead to an acceleration of our debt. We entered into credit facilities that contain covenants that at certain levels, among other things, restrict our ability to sell assets; incur, repay or refinance indebtedness; create liens; make investments; engage in mergers or acquisitions; pay dividends, including to us; repurchase stock; or make capital expenditures. These credit facilities also require compliance with specified financial covenants, including minimum interest coverage and maximum leverage ratios. We cannot borrow under the credit facilities if the additional borrowings would cause a breach to the financial covenants. Further, a significant portion of our assets are pledged to secure the indebtedness. Our ability to comply with the applicable covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. The breach of any of the covenants contained in the credit facilities, unless waived, would be a default. This would permit the lenders to terminate their commitments to extend credit under, and accelerate the maturity of, the facility. The acceleration of debt could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity. If we were unable to repay our debt to the lenders and holders or otherwise obtain a waiver from the lenders and holders, the lenders and holders could proceed against the collateral securing the credit facilities and exercise all other rights available to them. We may not have sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments and may not be able to obtain any such waiver on acceptable terms or at all. The issuance of dividends may or may not occur in the foreseeable future The decision to pay dividends is at the discretion of our Board of Directors and depends on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, financial covenants and other factors that our Board of Directors deems relevant. In the future, we intend to continue to consider declaring dividends on an annual basis, subject to reviewing our earnings and then current circumstances, but there is no guarantee that we will continue to issue dividends. Our insurance costs may increase, and we may experience additional exclusions and limitations on coverage in the future. We have maintained various forms of insurance, including insurance covering claims related to our properties and risks associated with our operations. Our existing property and liability insurance coverage contains exclusions and limitations on coverage. From time-to-time, in connection with renewals of insurance, we have experienced additional exclusions and limitations on coverage, larger self-insured retentions and deductibles and significantly higher premiums. For example, as a result of the fire at our facility in Bridgeport, Alabama, our business interruption insurance premium has increased significantly. As a result, in the future, our insurance coverage may not cover claims to the extent that it has in the past and the costs that we incur to procure insurance may increase significantly, either of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We have operations and assets in the U.S., Argentina, Canada, South Africa, China and Poland, and may have operations and assets in other countries in the future. Our international operations and assets may be subject to various economic, social and governmental risks. Our international operations and sales will expose us to risks that could negatively impact our future sales or profitability. Our operations may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected in a country with an economy similar to the United States. The additional risks that we may be exposed to in these cases include, but are not limited to: • tariffs and trade barriers; • currency fluctuations, which could decrease our revenues or increase our costs in U.S. dollars; • regulations related to customs and import/export matters; • tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws; • limited access to qualified staff; • inadequate infrastructure; • cultural and language differences; • inadequate banking systems; • different and/or more stringent environmental laws and regulations; • restrictions on the repatriation of profits or payment of dividends; • crime, strikes, riots, civil disturbances, terrorist attacks or wars; • nationalization or expropriation of property; • law enforcement authorities and courts that are weak or inexperienced in commercial matters; and • deterioration of political relations among countries. Our competitive strength as a low-cost silicon metal producer is partly tied to the value of the U.S. dollar compared to other currencies. The U.S. dollar has fluctuated significantly in value in comparison to major currencies in recent years. Should the value of the U.S. dollar rise in comparison to other currencies, we may lose this competitive strength. Exchange controls and restrictions on transfers abroad and capital inflow restrictions have limited, and can be expected to continue to limit, the availability of international credit. Argentina continues to impose exchange controls and transfer restrictions substantially limiting the ability of companies to buy foreign currency and to make dividends payments abroad. In response to capital flight and important losses of foreign currency reserves at the Central Bank, Argentina has imposed stringent import controls and restrictions, which are affecting the ability of many firms to adequately obtain raw materials and parts for their production. On July 30, 2014, Argentina entered into a selective default of its restructured debt. These recent events and additional controls could have a negative effect on the economy and our Argentine business if imposed in an economic environment where access to local capital is substantially constrained. Moreover, in such event, restrictions on the transfers of funds abroad may impede our ability to receive more dividend payments from our Argentine subsidiaries. 11 Our stock price may be volatile, and purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses. Our stock price may be volatile. The stock market in general has experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. As a result of this volatility, you may not be able to sell your common stock at or above the price at which you purchase the shares. The market price for our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including: • the success of competitive products or technologies; • regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; • developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights; • the recruitment or departure of key personnel; • quarterly or annual variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us; • market conditions in the industries in which we compete and issuance of new or changed securities analysts’ reports or recommendations; • the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock or changes in financial estimates by analysts; • the inability to meet the financial estimates of analysts who follow our common stock; • investor perception of our company and of the industry in which we compete; and • general economic, political and market conditions. The concentration of our capital stock ownership among our largest stockholders, and their affiliates, may limit your ability to influence corporate matters. To the best of our knowledge, our four largest stockholders, including our Executive Chairman, together beneficially own approximately 41% of our outstanding common stock. Consequently, these stockholders have significant influence over all matters that require approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may limit your ability to influence corporate matters, and as a result, actions may be taken that you may not view as beneficial. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could deter or prevent a change in control. Some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, as well as Delaware statutes, may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control. These provisions, including those providing for the possible issuance of shares of our preferred stock and the right of our Board of Directors to amend the bylaws, may make it more difficult for other persons, without the approval of the Board of Directors, to make a tender offer or otherwise acquire a substantial number of shares of our common stock or to launch other takeover attempts that a stockholder might consider to be in his or her best interest. These provisions could limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 