D. Risk Factors You should consider carefully all of the information in this annual report, including the risks described below. If any risk disclosed below or elsewhere in this annual report actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. In such an event, the trading price of our ADS could decline and you might lose all or part of your investment. Some information in this Item 3.D may be a summary of more detailed discussions contained elsewhere in this annual report. The risks described below are not the only ones concerning us. Our business is also subject to the risks not specifically addressed below that affect many other companies, such as employment relations, general economic conditions, geopolitical events, etc. Further, additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impact our business, operations, financial condition and ADS price materially and adversely. 3.D.1 Risks Related To Our Company We are currently dependent on our flagship product, EPIAO. A reduction in revenues of EPIAO would cause our total revenues to decline and could materially harm our business. We are largely dependent on sales of our erythropoietin, or EPO, product, which we market under the name of EPIAO. We began marketing and selling EPIAO in 1998, and it has been our top-selling product since 2002. Revenues from sales of EPIAO accounted for 61.9%, 59.9% and 58.7% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. We have continued our efforts to promote EPO products in 2012 and expect that sales of EPIAO will continue to comprise a substantial portion of our revenues in the future. Any reduction in revenues from EPIAO will have a direct negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our EPO franchise and associated revenues could be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including, but not limited to: increased competition; pricing pressure caused by competition, government policies, or otherwise; new product introductions; intellectual property issues; problems with raw materials supply; disruptions in manufacturing or distribution; the inability to market effectively our products; newly discovered safety, side effects or other product issues; and negative perception or insufficient recognition of EPIAO by the medical community or other key parties such as third party payers. 3 Beginning in 2006, there have been over-usage and safety concerns in the U.S. and some other regions in regard to EPO products, and there have been ongoing review and scrutiny by the US FDA. We are not aware of similar developments in China. However, if such developments occur, our business may be negatively affected. Despite our efforts, we may be unable to develop or acquire new products that would enable us to diversify our business and reduce our dependence on EPIAO products, or to do so in such manner as competitively required. The commercial success of our products depends upon the degree of market acceptance among the medical community. Failure to attain market acceptance among the medical community would have an adverse impact on our operations and profitability. The commercial success of our products, including in-licensed products, depends upon the degree of market acceptance they achieve among the medical community, particularly physicians and hospitals. Physicians may not prescribe or recommend our products to patients, and procurement departments of hospitals may not purchase our products. The acceptance of any of our products among the medical community will depend upon several factors, including: the safety and effectiveness of the product; the effectiveness of our efforts to market our products to hospitals and physicians; the product’s cost effectiveness; the prevalence and severity of side effects; and the product’s perceived advantages and disadvantages relative to competing products or treatments. If our products fail to attain market acceptance among the medical community, our operations and profitability would be adversely affected. The selling prices of our products tend to decline over time. Our success depends on our ability to successfully develop and commercialize additional pharmaceutical products. Our product development efforts may not result in commercially viable products. As is typical in the Chinese pharmaceutical industry, the average selling prices of our products tend to decline significantly over the life of the product. These declines principally result from increased competition and changes in government policies. We must therefore constantly identify product candidates that can be developed into cost-effective therapeutic products. We plan to continue to search for in-license and acquisition opportunities and invest in research and development; however, successful product development in our industry is highly uncertain, and relatively few research and development projects produce commercially viable products. If we cannot offset any decline in revenues and margins of our marketed products with new product introductions, our overall results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. Our products face substantial competition, and we may not be able to compete effectively against current and future competitors. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our products compete with other products or treatments for diseases for which our products may be indicated. EPIAO competes with both existing EPO drugs and new drug candidates. In China, EPO drugs are offered by established international companies such as Kirin Brewery Company Limited, or Kirin, and F. Hoffmann-La Roche, Ltd., or Roche, and domestic pharmaceutical companies such as Harbin Pharmaceuticals, Beijing Sihuan, Shanghai Kelong, Chengdu Di’ao Jiuhong Pharmaceutical Factory and others. Competitors for Iron Sucrose Supplement include Beijing Novartis Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Nanjing Hencer Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and others. While we believe TPIAO is the only recombinant human thrombopoietin, or TPO-based therapeutic, available in the Chinese market to date, other pharmaceutical companies may enter this market and manufacture and market their TPO products. Certain of our competitors, including biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, are actively engaged in research and development in areas where we have products or where we are developing product candidates or new indications for existing products. Other companies may discover, develop, acquire or commercialize products before or more successfully than we do. In the future, we expect that our products will compete with new drugs currently in development, drugs approved for other indications that may be approved for the same indications as those of our products and drugs approved for other indications that are used off-label. Furthermore, our products may compete against products that have lower prices, superior performance, greater ease of administration or other advantages compared to our products. We do not currently have patents of any commercial significance covering EPIAO, our legacy products or several of our product candidates with which to protect these products from direct competition. Our inability to compete effectively could reduce sales or margins, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 4 As we expand our product portfolio by adding new products and indications, as well as developing second-generation versions of existing products with the same or overlapping labels, some of our products may be used as a substitute for our other products in the same end markets. An increasing number of foreign pharmaceutical companies have introduced their products into the Chinese market. Subsequent to the reduction of import tariffs pursuant to China’s WTO obligations, the selling prices in China of imported pharmaceuticals have become more competitive. Also, foreign pharmaceutical manufacturers have set up domestic production bases in China leading to increasing direct competition. Large Chinese state-owned and privately-owned pharmaceutical companies, and foreign pharmaceutical companies, may have greater clinical, research, regulatory, manufacturing, marketing, financial and human resources than we do. In addition, some of our competitors may have technical or competitive advantages over us for the development of technologies and processes. These resources may make it difficult for us to compete with them to successfully discover, develop and market new products and for our current products to compete with new products or new product indications that these competitors may bring to market. There may also be significant consolidation in the pharmaceutical industry among our competitors, or alliances may develop among competitors and these alliances may rapidly acquire significant market share. In order to gain market share in China, competitors may significantly increase their advertising expenditures and promotional activities, or even engage in irrational or predatory pricing behavior. In addition, our competitors may engage in improper or unfair conducts, or even illegal acts. Third parties may actively engage in activities designed to undermine our brand name or to influence customer confidence in our products. For these and other possible reasons, we may not be able to compete effectively against current and future competitors. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins and loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our profit margins. Our competitors may have the ability to manufacture pharmaceutical products substantially similar to ours. Our ability to compete against our competitors is, to a significant extent, dependent upon our ability to distinguish our products from those of our competitors by providing high quality products at reasonable prices that are perceived to be safe and effective by doctors and patients. Many of our competitors may have been in business longer than we have, may have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have and may be better established in our markets. Our competitors in any particular market may also benefit from raw material sources or production facilities that are closer to such markets, which may provide them with competitive advantages in terms of cost and proximity to consumers. Our TPIAO product had market exclusivity under a regulatory monitoring period through May 2010, during which other pharmaceutical companies were prohibited from manufacturing or importing similar drugs. Since the monitoring period has expired, other pharmaceutical companies in China may apply for approval of the SFDA to manufacture similar drugs using similar formulae or production techniques. With respect to TPIAO or any other current or future product of ours, if other manufacturers introduce products substantially similar to ours, we will face more competitive pressure in the market and our sales and profit margin may be adversely affected. Our business depends on our Shenyang Sunshine and EPIAO brands, and if we are not able to maintain and enhance our brands to sustain our competitive advantage, our reputation, business and operating results may be harmed. We believe that market awareness of our Shenyang Sunshine and EPIAO brands has contributed significantly to the success of our business. We also believe that maintaining and enhancing the Shenyang Sunshine and EPIAO brands is critical to our competitive advantage. In order to further penetrate the markets and launch new products, we must expand our manufacturing and sales and marketing efforts. Maintaining quality and cost-effectiveness may be more difficult to achieve. While our sales and marketing staff will continue to promote our brand to remain competitive, we may not be successful. If we are unable to further enhance our brand recognition and increase awareness of our products, or if we incur excessive marketing and promotion expenses, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We may pursue collaborations, in-licensing arrangements, joint ventures, acquisitions, strategic alliances, partnerships, or other strategic initiatives or arrangements, which may fail to produce anticipated benefits, or adversely affect or disrupt our business. As part of our business strategy, we continually pursue opportunities of collaboration, in-licensing, joint ventures, acquisitions of products, assets, technologies, or businesses, strategic alliances, or partnerships that we believe would be complementary to or promote our existing business. Proposing, negotiating and implementing collaborations, in-licensing arrangements, joint ventures, acquisitions, or other strategic arrangements may be a lengthy and complex process. Other companies, including those with substantially greater financial, marketing, sales, technology, or other business resources, may compete with us for these opportunities or arrangements. We may not identify, secure, or complete any such transactions or arrangements in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, on acceptable terms, or at all. 5 We have limited experience with respect to these business development activities. Management of a license arrangement, collaboration, joint venture, or other strategic arrangement or integration of acquired assets or businesses may adversely affect or disrupt our current business, decrease our profitability, or cause us to incur significant expenses, or divert management resources that otherwise would be available for our existing business. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of any such transaction or arrangement. Furthermore, partners, collaborators, or other parties to such transactions or arrangements may fail to fully perform their obligations or meet our expectations or cooperate with us satisfactorily for various reasons, including, due to risks or uncertainties related to their business and operations. There may be conflicts or other collaboration failures and inefficiencies between us and the other parties. Such transactions or arrangements may also require or stand in need of actions, consents, approvals, waivers, participation or involvement of various degrees from third parties, such as regulators, government authorities, creditors, license grantors or grantees, related individuals, suppliers, distributors, shareholders, or other stakeholders or interested parties. We may not obtain such required or desired actions, consent, approval, waiver, participation or involvement on a timely basis, on acceptable terms, or at all. We may not achieve one or more of our projected goals, objectives, milestones or targets as to various aspects of our business and operations, in the time frames we announce and expect, or at all. We may set forth goals, milestones or targets in public announcements, releases and disclosures, regarding timing of the accomplishment of objectives material to our success, such as the commencement and completion of clinical trials, anticipated regulatory submission and approval dates, and timing of product launches. As a public company listed in the United States, we make additional announcements in our public reports, such as this annual report, and in press releases regarding these events, from time to time. The actual timing of these events can vary dramatically due to factors beyond our control, such as delays or failures in our clinical trials, the uncertainties inherent in the regulatory approval process, and delays in achieving manufacturing or marketing arrangements sufficient to commercialize our products. There can be no assurance that our clinical trials will be completed, that we will make regulatory submissions or receive regulatory approvals as planned or that we will be able to adhere to our current schedule for the launch of any of our products. If we fail to achieve one or more of these objectives, goals, milestones or targets as planned, the price of our shares could decline. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which would result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors in our ADSs or ordinary shares. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or a PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes, particularly for the taxable year ended December 31, 2008 (“Year 2008”) and the taxable year ended December 31, 2009 (“Year 2009”). PFIC status is a factual determination made for each taxable year ending December 31, after the close of such year, on the basis of the composition of our income and our “active” versus “passive” assets for such year. Under the PFIC rules, we will generally be classified as a PFIC if, in the case of any particular taxable year, 75% or more of our gross income consists of certain types of “passive income” (the “income test”) or 50% or more of the value of our assets consists of “passive assets” (the “asset test”). For this purpose, cash and other liquid assets are generally classified as passive assets and goodwill and other unbooked intangibles may generally be classified as active assets. The overall level of our passive assets will be significantly affected by the amount and time-frame within which we deploy the cash raised in our initial public offering, other liquid assets that we presently hold, and the operation cash inflow. In addition, the overall level of our active assets will depend, in great measure, on the valuation of our goodwill and other unbooked intangibles as implied by our market capitalization which may fluctuate. We believe we were not a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ended December 31, 2011. For the taxable year ending December 31, 2012, the PFIC status cannot be determined until after the end of the year. Because the PFIC determination is highly fact intensive, there can be no assurance that we will not be classified as a PFIC for any particular taxable year or that the Internal Revenue Service will not challenge any determination concerning our PFIC status for any particular taxable year. With respect to prior years, the financial market disruptions from late 2008 and early 2009 may have materially depressed our market valuation for Year 2008 and Year 2009, and , to our knowledge, there is a lack of guidance from United States authorities regarding how such disruptions should be taken into account in applying the asset test. In particular, it is possible that the disruptions could lead to our being classified as a PFIC under the asset test for Year 2008 and Year 2009. If we were to be or become classified as a PFIC for any particular taxable year during which a U.S. investor holds our ADSs or ordinary shares, such U.S. investor may incur a significantly increased United States income tax liability on gain recognized on the sale or other disposition of our ADSs or ordinary shares and on the receipt of distributions on our ADSs or ordinary shares; and, we generally would continue to be treated as a PFIC for all succeeding years during which such U.S. investor holds our ADSs or ordinary shares. See “Item10.E --- Taxation - United States Federal Income Tax Considerations for U.S. Persons” for more detailed discussions on PFIC matters. 6 Notwithstanding our belief as discussed and any information we provide solely for the convenience of our investors, we are not providing any U.S. tax opinion or advice to U.S. investors concerning the PFIC status of our company, and U.S. investors should consult their own tax advisors concerning the implication of the PFIC rules in his, her or its particular circumstance and determine his, her, or its own tax position as to our PFIC status for a particular taxable year, including, as applicable, for Year 2008 and Year 2009. Certain of our raw materials, medical devices and components are single-sourced from third parties; third-party supply failures could adversely affect our ability to supply our products. Certain raw materials necessary for commercial manufacturing and formulation of our products are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. Also, certain medical devices and components necessary for formulation, fill, and finish of our products are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers, including the EPO Elisa Kit by R&D Systems Inc., GIBCO cell culture medium by Invitrogen Inc., Pharmacia EPO chromatography purification medium by GE Healthcare, a division of GE, and Disc, a microcarrier for cell cultures, by New Brunswick Scientific Inc. For more details, see “4.B.8 Manufacturing.” Certain of these raw materials, medical devices and components are the proprietary products of these unaffiliated third-party suppliers. We would be unable to obtain these raw materials, medical devices or components for an indeterminate period of time if these third-party single-source suppliers were to cease or interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply these materials or products to us for any reason, including due to regulatory requirements or action, due to adverse financial developments at or affecting the suppliers, and/or due to unexpected demand, labor shortages or disputes. We would also be unable to obtain these materials, devices and components for an indeterminate period of time if such supply was subsequently found to not be in compliance with our quality standards or resulted in quality failures or product contamination and/or recall when used to manufacture, formulate, fill or finish our products. These events could adversely affect our ability to satisfy demand for our products, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales and operating results. For example, we have occasionally experienced shortages in certain components necessary for the formulation, fill and finish of certain of our products in our Shenyang facility without impact on our ability to supply these products. However, we may experience shortages in the future resulting in delayed shipments, supply constraints, stock-outs and/or recalls of our products, which could result in interruptions to our production. We depend on our distributors for sales of our products. We rely on our network of distributors to distribute our own and our in-licensed products. Our distributors do not sell our products on an exclusive basis. As a result, our products face competition from similar products sold by our distributors. Our success will depend in part on our ability to form relationships with and manage a changing number of distributors. If our distribution network in China suffers a disruption, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. While we have long-standing business relationships with most of our distributors, we do not have long-term contracts with any distributor except for in our export sales, which in the past 5 years represents approximately 5% or less of our total net revenue. Moreover, a significant amount of our revenue is generated by product sales to relatively few distributors, whose mix changes from year to year. In each of the past three years, sales to our top five distributors accounted for 30% to 40% of our total net revenue. For more information, see “4.B.5 Marketing, Sales and Distribution.” If any large distributor was to voluntarily or involuntarily suspend or terminate product purchases from us, we would need to divert product sales to other distributors, which could cause disruptions to our revenue and profitability. We are highly dependent on senior management and key research and development personnel. We are highly dependent on our senior management to manage our business and operations and our key research and development personnel for the development of new technologies and applications and the enhancement of our existing products. In particular, we rely substantially on our chairman and chief executive officer, Dr. Jing Lou, to manage our operations. We also depend on our key research personnel such as Dongmei Su, our vice president of research and development (“R&D”) and chief technology officer. In addition, we also rely on sales personnel and other personnel with industry knowledge, to market and sell our products. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our senior management or key personnel. The loss of any one of them, in particular Dr. Lou, would have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. In addition, although Dr. Lou and Dr. Su have each signed a non-competition agreement with us, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully enforce these provisions in the event of a dispute. 7 Competition for senior management and research and development personnel is intense, and the pool of suitable candidates is limited. We may be unable to locate a suitable replacement for any senior management or key research and development personnel that we lose. We compete for qualified personnel with other pharmaceutical companies, universities and research institutions. Intense competition for these personnel could cause our compensation costs to increase significantly, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our future success and ability to grow our business will depend in part on the continued service of these individuals and our ability to identify, hire and retain additional qualified personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, we may be unable to meet our business and financial goals. If we are unable to protect our products through intellectual property rights, our competitors may compete directly against us. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our products from competition by establishing, maintaining and enforcing intellectual property rights. We try to protect the products and technology that we consider important to our business by filing PRC patent applications, securing pharmaceutical regulatory protection, establishing and enforcing confidentiality contractual obligations, relying on trade secrets, or employing a combination of these methods. We do not have any patent protection of commercial significance relating to EPIAO. We have patents and patent applications relating to TPIAO and certain of our other products, product candidates and technologies. For more details, see “4.B.7—Intellectual Property.” However, the process of seeking patent protection in the PRC can be lengthy and expensive, and we cannot assure you that these patent applications, or any patent applications we may make in the future in respect of other products, will result in patents being issued, or that any patents issued in the future will be able to provide us with meaningful protection or commercial advantage. Any patent issued to us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. In addition to patents, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how to protect our intellectual property. We have entered into confidentiality agreements with many of our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and other advisors. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our proprietary information. In addition, it is possible that third parties could independently develop proprietary information and techniques substantially similar to ours or otherwise gain access to our proprietary information. We may become involved in patent litigation against third parties to enforce our patent rights, to invalidate patents held by such third parties, or to defend against intellectual property claims. The cost to us of any patent litigation or similar proceeding could be substantial, and it may absorb significant management resources. We do not maintain insurance to cover intellectual property infringement. Intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries, due to, among other causes, lack of procedural rules for discovery and evidence, low damage awards and lack of judicial independence. Implementation and enforcement of PRC intellectual property-related laws have historically been deficient and ineffective and may be hampered by corruption and local protectionism. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive, and we might need to resort to litigation to enforce or defend patents issued to us or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of our proprietary rights or those of others. The experience and capabilities of PRC courts in handling intellectual property litigation varies, and outcomes are unpredictable. Further, such litigation may require significant expenditure of cash and management efforts and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. An adverse determination in any such litigation could materially impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects and reputation. For more details on the process for applying for and obtaining intellectual property protection in the PRC, see “4.B.11-c Intellectual Property.” If our products infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, we may incur substantial liabilities, and we may be unable to sell these products. Our commercial success depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. Under the PRC Patent Law promulgated by the People’s Congress in March 1984, as amended, patent applications are maintained in confidence until their publication at the end of 18 months from the filing date. The publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature frequently occurs substantially later than the date on which the underlying discoveries were made and the date on which patent applications are filed. China adopts the first-to-file system under which whoever first files a patent application (instead of the one who makes first actual discoveries) will be awarded the patent. By contrast, the United States patent law endorses the first-to-invent system under which whoever makes the first actual discovery will be awarded the patent. Under the first-to-file system, even after reasonable investigation we may not know with certainty whether we have infringed a third party’s patent because such third party may have filed a patent application without our knowledge while we are still developing that product. We are aware of intellectual property rights held by third parties that relate to products or technologies we are developing. For example, we are aware of a patent held by a third party that may relate to our TPIAO product. We believe, as to each claim in this patent, that we either do not infringe the claim of the patent or that the claim is invalid. While the validity of issued patents, patentability of pending patent applications and applicability of any of them to our programs are uncertain, if asserted against us, any related patent rights could adversely affect our ability to commercialize our products. 8 If a third party claims that we infringe its proprietary rights, one or more of the following may occur: we may become involved in time-consuming and expensive litigation, even if the claim is without merit; we may become liable for substantial damages for past infringement if a court decides that our technology infringes a third party’s patent; a court may prohibit us from selling or licensing our product without a license from the patent holder, which may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all, or which may require us to pay substantial royalties or grant cross licenses to our patents; or we may have to reformulate our product so that it does not infringe patent rights of others, which may not be possible or could be very expensive and time-consuming. Although to date we have not experienced any of the circumstances listed above, if any of these events occurs, our business will be adversely affected. Power shortages, natural disasters, terrorist acts or other calamities could disrupt our production and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. EPIAO, TPIAO and our legacy products are produced at our manufacturing facilities in Shenyang. A significant disruption at that facility, even on a short-term basis, could impair our ability to produce and ship products on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Our Shenyang manufacturing operations are vulnerable to interruption and damage from natural and other types of disasters, including earthquake, fire, floods, environmental accidents, power shortage, interruptions in electricity supply, communications failures and similar events. If any disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business at our facilities would be seriously impaired. In addition, the nature of our production and research activities could require significant delays in our programs and make it difficult for us to recover from a disaster. We do not maintain business interruption insurance. Accordingly, unexpected business interruptions resulting from disasters could disrupt our operations and thereby result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. We may experience significant period-to-period quarterly and annual fluctuations in our revenue and operating results, which may result in volatility in our stock price. We may experience significant period-to-period fluctuations in revenues and operating results. Our revenues and operating results in some quarters may fall below the estimates of securities research analysts, which may cause the value of our ordinary shares and ADSs to decline. We typically generate higher levels of revenues during the second half of the year, primarily because of the tendency of hospitals to place more orders prior to the year-end holiday season and the fact that more people visit hospitals in the second half of the year, resulting in more prescriptions by physicians during this period. Generally, our quarterly and annual operating results are affected by a number of factors, such as: seasonal spending patterns of Chinese consumers, including hospitals, dialysis centers and clinics; changes in pricing policies by us, our competitors or the government; the timing and market acceptance of new products and product enhancements by us or our competitors; the loss of key sales personnel or distributors; our involvement in litigation; changes in government policies or regulations; and a downturn in general economic conditions in China. While certain of the factors identified above, including seasonal spending patterns, changes in pricing policies, market acceptance of new products and changes in government policies, have in the past caused fluctuations in our quarterly financial results, we have not suffered any material and adverse consequences from these fluctuations in the last three years. However, many of these factors are beyond our control, and you should not rely on our results of operations for prior quarters as an indication of our results in any future period. As our revenues vary significantly from quarter to quarter, our business could be difficult to predict and manage and our quarterly results could fall below investor expectations, which could cause our ADS price to decline. We have previously operated as a private Chinese company and have limited experience in complying with requirements applicable to public companies in the United States. Continued compliance with U.S. GAAP requirements will require significant management resources, financial and other costs. Historically, we have primarily prepared unaudited financial statements in accordance with PRC GAAP for the purpose of tax reporting and determining the level of statutory reserves until our initial public offering, and have limited resources and a small finance and accounting team. Although we have since invested additional resources and hired additional staff, we expect to continue to encounter substantial difficulty attracting qualified staff with requisite experience due to the high level of competition for experienced financial professionals. We have been providing training for our staff with respect to U.S. GAAP. Our training may not be sufficient or effective. 9 We continue to face increased legal, accounting, administrative and other costs and expenses as a public company that we did not incur as a private company. Compliance with the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as other rules of the SEC, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, has resulted in significant legal, audit and financial compliance costs, including costs related to our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We may fail to achieve and maintain effective internal controls. We are subject to the reporting obligations under the United States securities laws. We are required by the SEC, as directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, to include a report of management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2011, and our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report, which has concluded that we maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011. See “Item 15. Controls and Procedures.” Our management may not conclude that our internal controls are effective in the future. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our independent public registered accounting firm may disagree. If our independent public registered accounting firm is not satisfied with our internal control over financial reporting or the level at which our controls are designed, operated, documented or reviewed, it then may issue an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Any of these possible outcomes could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. Furthermore, we have expended, and anticipate that we will continue to expend, considerable costs, management time, and other resources, in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our export sales may expose us to risks, uncertainties, and liabilities related to the destination countries and international operations. We have very limited experience in operating internationally. We export our products outside China and plan to continually expand our exports. We had previously operated solely within China until 2003, and had very limited experience in operating internationally and in any particular destination country. The exports may expose us to risks, uncertainties, and liabilities in or related to the destination countries and international operations. In new markets we may fail to anticipate competitive conditions that are different from those in our existing markets. In a particular destination country, our brands may be less recognized. Our selected distributors may not be suitable for selling our products. We expect that pharmaceutical products are heavily regulated and the local laws and regulations may impose substantial costs and burdens on us. We may be unable to effectively protect or enforce our intellectual property rights; may become involved in disputes or litigations over intellectual property rights; or may encounter other issues in the area of intellectual property. Other risks and uncertainties may include: particular local forms of products liabilities and regulations with respect to pharmaceutical products; obligations to comply with a wide variety of foreign laws and other regulatory requirements; political instability; economic instability and recessions; changes in tariffs; difficulties of managing foreign operations generally; increased risk of exposure to terrorist activities; financial condition, expertise and performance of our international distributors; export license requirements; unauthorized re-export of our products; potentially adverse tax consequences; and inability to effectively enforce contractual or legal rights; and language and cultural conflicts. There are certain operational, legal and other risks associated with our contractual arrangements with Liaoning Sunshine and its shareholders that are intended to effect our control over Liaoning Sunshine. We rely on contractual arrangements with our affiliated variable interest entity, Liaoning Sunshine Bio-Pharmaceutical Company Limited, or Liaoning Sunshine, and its shareholder, Mr. Dan Lou, to maintain control over the business and operations of Liaoning Sunshine. Mr. Dan Lou is our former chairman and the father of Mr. Jing Lou, our chairman and CEO. Liaoning Sunshine holds the rights to our in-licensed product, Iron Sucrose Supplement; in addition, Liaoning Sunshine Science and Technology Development Co. Limited (“LSSTD”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Liaoning Sunshine, is the principal party in our collaboration with DaVita Inc. (“DaVita”) to provide kidney care services in two Chinese provinces, as set forth under Item 8 and Exhibit 4.10. 10 These contractual control arrangements may not be as effective in providing control over Liaoning Sunshine as direct ownership. If Liaoning Sunshine or its sole shareholder, Mr. Dan Lou, refuses to perform any contractual obligations to us, we could be affected. Dr. Jing Lou is the CEO and a director of LSSTD. While Dr Lou as our Chairman and CEO has a fiduciary duty of loyalty and care to us under Cayman Islands law, the potential exists for conflicts of interests between his duties to us and his duties towards Liaoning Sunshine. We are party to a purchase agreement, pursuant to which we may acquire 100% of the equity interests in Liaoning Sunshine from Mr. Dan Lou, if and when PRC law permits. We may not receive any required regulatory approval on a timely basis, or at all. In addition, although we believe we comply with current PRC regulations, we cannot assure you that the PRC authorities would agree that our arrangements with Liaoning Sunshine comply with PRC licensing, registration, tax or other regulatory requirements, with existing policies or with requirements or policies that may be adopted in the future. Any of these risks may affect adversely our economic and voting control over Liaoning Sunshine, which could in turn materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. For more information, please see “4.C Organizational Structure” and “7.B Related Party Transactions – Transactions with Liaoning Sunshine”. 3.D.2 Risks Related To Our Industry The pharmaceutical industry in China is highly regulated, and future government regulation may place additional burdens on our business. The pharmaceutical industry in China is subject to extensive government regulation and supervision. The regulatory framework addresses all aspects of operating in the pharmaceutical industry, including approval, production, licensing and certification requirements and procedures, periodic renewal and reassessment processes, registration of new drugs and environmental protection. Violation of applicable laws and regulations may materially adversely affect our business. In order to manufacture pharmaceutical products in China, we are required to apply for and obtain a pharmaceutical manufacturing permit from the provincial level food and drug administrative authority. In addition, in order to manufacture and market any drug in China, we are required to apply for and obtain permits and certificates from the SFDA, including the new drug certificate, drug registration certificate (which includes the issuance of a drug approval number) and GMP certificate. (Chinese GMP refers to guidelines and regulations issued from time to time pursuant to PRC laws as part of quality assurance to ensure that products subject to those guidelines and regulations are consistently produced and controlled to the quality and standards appropriate for their intended use.) We are required to renew the pharmaceutical manufacturing permits, drug registration certificates and GMP certificates periodically, generally every five years. China SFDA and other Chinese regulatory agencies operate under considerable time and resources constraints. There may be various factors and risks that impact on the process of obtaining or renewal of these certificates, permits, or similar regulatory approvals. If we are unable to obtain or renew such permits or certificates or any other regulatory approvals required for our operation on a timely basis, or at all, we may be prevented from engaging in the manufacture of our products, or suffer other possible negative consequences, and our business may be adversely affected. Changes in compliance standards, laws, regulations and regulatory practices may prohibit or render more restrictive certain business activities, increase compliance costs or otherwise adversely impact our operations, profitability or financial position. For more information, please refer to “4.B.11—Regulations”. New product development in the pharmaceutical industry is both costly and labor-intensive and has a low rate of successful commercialization. Our success will depend in part on our ability to enhance our existing products and to develop new products. The development process for pharmaceutical products is complex and uncertain, as well as time-consuming and costly. Relatively few research and development programs produce a commercial product. A product candidate that appears promising in the early phases of development may fail to reach the market for a number of reasons, such as: the failure to demonstrate safety and efficacy in preclinical and clinical trials; the failure to obtain approvals for intended use from relevant regulatory bodies, such as the SFDA; our inability to manufacture and commercialize sufficient quantities of the product economically; and proprietary rights, such as patent rights, held by others related to our product candidate and their refusal to sell or license such rights to us on reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, product development requires the accurate assessment of market trends. We cannot assure you that: our new product research and development efforts will be successfully and timely completed; the SFDA or other regulatory bodies will grant necessary regulatory clearances or approvals on a timely basis, or at all; or any product we develop will be commercialized or achieve market acceptance. 11 Delays in any part of the development process or our inability to obtain regulatory approval of our products could adversely affect our operating results by restricting or delaying our introduction of new products. Even if we successfully commercialize new products, these products may address markets that are currently being served by the off-label use of others of our mature products and inadvertently result in a reduction in the sales volume of our mature products or vice versa. Failure to develop, obtain necessary regulatory clearances or approvals for or successfully commercialize or market potential new products or technologies could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We will not be able to commercialize our product candidates if our preclinical studies do not produce successful results or our clinical trials do not demonstrate safety and efficacy in humans. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the manufacturing and sale of our product candidates, we must conduct, at our own expense, extensive preclinical tests and clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy in humans of our product candidates. Preclinical and clinical testing is expensive, difficult to design and implement, can take many years to complete and is uncertain as to outcome. Success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and interim results of a clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results. A failure of one or more of our clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, preclinical testing and the clinical trial process that could delay or prevent our ability to receive regulatory approval or commercialize our product candidates, including: our preclinical tests or clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional preclinical testing or clinical trials, or we may abandon projects that we expect to be promising; we might have to suspend or terminate our clinical trials if the participating patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; regulators may require that we hold, suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements or safety concerns; the time or cost of our clinical trials may be greater than we currently anticipate; any regulatory approval we ultimately obtain may be limited or subject to restrictions or post-approval commitments that render the product not commercially viable; and our product candidates may produce undesirable side effects or may have other unexpected characteristics. If we are required to conduct additional clinical trials or other testing of our product candidates beyond those that we currently contemplate, if we are unable to successfully complete our clinical trials or other testing or if the results of these trials or tests are not positive or are only modestly positive, we may: be delayed in obtaining marketing approval for our product candidates; not be able to obtain marketing approval; or obtain approval for indications that are not as broad as intended. Our product development costs will also increase if we experience delays in testing or approvals. We do not know whether planned clinical trials will begin as planned, will need to be restructured or will be completed on schedule, if at all. Significant clinical trial delays also could allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do and impair our ability to commercialize our products or product candidates. We may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for any of the products resulting from our development, or may do so only with sufferance of delays, limitations, increased costs or other issues. New pharmaceutical products must be approved by the SFDA before they can be marketed and sold in China. The SFDA requires successful completion of clinical trials and demonstrated manufacturing capability before the grant of approval. Clinical trials are expensive and their results are uncertain. It often takes multiple years before a medicine can be ultimately approved by the SFDA. In addition, the SFDA and other regulatory authorities may apply new standards for safety, manufacturing, packaging, and distribution of future product candidates. Complying with such standards may be time-consuming and expensive and could result in delays in obtaining SFDA approval for our product candidates, or possibly preclude us from obtaining SFDA approval. Furthermore, our future products may not be effective or may prove to have undesirable or unintended side effects, toxicities or other characteristics that may preclude us from obtaining regulatory approval or prevent or limit commercial use. The SFDA and other regulatory authorities operate under considerable time and resource constraints. There may be various factors and risks that impact on the process of regulatory review and approvals. The SFDA and other regulatory authorities may not approve the products that we develop, and even if we do obtain regulatory approvals, such regulatory approvals may take longer than expected or desired, or may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which we may market a product, which may limit the size of the market for such product. 12 The pricing of all of our products is subject to government approval, controls, and other regulations. Price-related government actions or measures may limit our profitability or cause us to stop marketing in a region or even stop manufacturing certain products. Pursuant to the implementing rules of the Drug Administration Law, we are required to seek pricing approval for all our products from the National Development and Reform Commission of the PRC, or the NDRC, and the price administration authorities of the relevant provinces of the PRC in which our pharmaceutical products are manufactured. We have in the past been able to successfully obtain pricing-related approvals. In addition, in order to access certain local or provincial-level markets, we enter into government-sponsored competitive tendering processes for EPIAO, TPIAO and our legacy products every year or every few years, or as otherwise required by the relevant government authorities, with a designated price range. The competitive bidding in effect sets price ceilings for our products, thereby limiting our profitability. In some instances, if the price range designated by any local government falls below our costs, we may stop marketing such products in that region or even stop manufacturing such products. See “4.B.11-b.3 Distribution.” Pharmaceutical products included in certain government sponsored insurance programs are subject to price controls in the form of fixed retail prices or retail price ceilings. In addition, the maximum retail prices of such products are also subject to periodic downward adjustments as the PRC government authorities aim to make pharmaceuticals more affordable to the general public. Currently, the pricings with respect to all of our products are being reviewed by the NDRC and the NDRC may impose price cuts on any one or more of these products, in which event our business, revenues and profitability may be adversely and materially affected. The emphasis of China's health care reform on affordability of medical care may continue to exert price pressure on drug prices; and the uncertainties related to the reform and any adverse developments may further impact on the pricing of our products. For example, our core products EPIAO and TPIAO are currently not included in the National Essential Drugs Registry (see Item 4.B.11-b.5 "- National Essential Drugs Registry"), which inclusion would likely to exert more downward pricing pressure. Rapid changes in the pharmaceutical industry may render our products obsolete. The pharmaceutical industry is characterized by rapid changes in technology, constant enhancement of industrial knowhow and frequent emergence of new products. Future technological improvements and continual product developments in the pharmaceutical market may render our existing products obsolete or affect our viability and competitiveness. Therefore, our future success will largely depend on our ability to: improve our existing products; diversify our product portfolio; and develop new and competitively priced products which meet the requirements of the constantly changing market. If we fail to respond to this environment by improving our existing products or developing new products in a timely fashion, or if our new or improved products do not achieve adequate market acceptance, our business and profitability may be materially and adversely affected. Anti-corruption measures taken by the government authorities to correct corruptive practices in the pharmaceutical industry, and laws and regulations aiming at combating corruption, could adversely affect us. The PRC government has from time to time undertaken anti-corruption measures to correct corrupt practices. In the pharmaceutical industry, such practices include, among others, acceptance of kickbacks, bribery or other illegal gains or benefits by the hospitals and medical practitioners from pharmaceutical distributors in connection with the prescription of a certain drug. Nearly all of our sales to our ultimate customers are conducted through third-party distributors. We have no control over our third-party distributors, who may engage in corrupt practices to promote our products. While we maintain strict anti-corruption policies applicable to our internal sales force and third-party distributors, these policies may not be effective. If our affiliated variable interest entity, Liaoning Sunshine, or any of our third-party distributors engage in such practices and the government takes enforcement action, our products may be seized and our own practices, and involvement in the distributors’ practices, investigated. If this occurs, our sales and reputation may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, government-sponsored anti-corruption campaigns from time to time could have an adverse effect on our efforts to reach new hospital customers. Our sales representatives primarily rely on hospital visits to better educate physicians on our products and promote our brand awareness. In the past, there have been occasions on which our sales representatives were denied access to hospitals in order to avoid the perception of corruption. If this attitude becomes widespread among our potential customers, our ability to promote our products will be adversely affected. 13 Furthermore, we are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, which has been more proactively enforced by the U.S. government in recent years. Even though we have adopted a Code of Ethics that applies to all our employees, which, among other requirements, prohibits improper payments and gifts in our business, and enforces compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including FCPA, we cannot assure you that our employees will comply with this Code or that the increased level of FCPA investigative and enforcement actions will not adversely affect us. We are subject to environmental regulations and may be exposed to liability and potential costs for environmental compliance. We are subject to PRC laws and regulations concerning the discharge of effluent water and solid waste during our manufacturing processes. We are required to obtain clearances and authorizations from government authorities for the treatment and disposal of such discharge. We may not at all times comply fully with environmental regulations. Any violation of these regulations may result in substantial fines, criminal sanctions, revocations of operating permits, shutdown of our facilities and obligation to take corrective measures. Our cost of complying with current and future environmental protection laws and regulations and our liabilities which may potentially arise from the discharge of effluent water and solid waste may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The government may take steps toward the adoption of more stringent environmental regulations. Due to the possibility of unanticipated regulatory or other developments, the amount and timing of future environmental expenditures may vary substantially from those currently anticipated. If there is any unanticipated change in the environmental regulations, we may need to incur substantial capital expenditures to install, replace, upgrade or supplement our pollution control equipment or make operational changes to limit any adverse impact or potential adverse impact on the environment in order to comply with new environmental protection laws and regulations. If such costs become prohibitively expensive, we may be forced to cease certain of our business operations. We may be required to defend lawsuits or pay damages for product liability claims. We do not have any liability or business disruption insurance, and, a claim against us, or an interruption in our business, could adversely affect our reputation and our financial results. The development and commercialization of pharmaceutical products entails an inherent risk of harm to the patient and, therefore, product liability. If a product liability claim is brought against us, it may, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, result in damage to our reputation, breach of contract with our customers, decreased demand for our products, costly litigation, product recalls, loss of revenue and the inability to commercialize some products. We currently are not aware of any existing or anticipated product liability claims with respect to our products. Existing PRC laws and regulations do not require us to, nor do we, maintain liability insurance to cover product liability claims. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products. As a result, we do not have business liability, or in particular, product liability or disruption insurance coverage for our operations. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. Any product liability insurance for clinical trials, when obtained, may be prohibitively expensive, or may not fully cover our potential liabilities. The inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of products that we or our collaborators develop. 3.D.3 Risks Related To Doing Business In China Adverse changes in political, economic and other policies of the Chinese government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products; and could otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, operations or competitive position. Developments in China’s healthcare policy may adversely affect us. Changes and developments in China’s economic, political and social conditions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. All of our operations are located in China, and substantially all of our sales are made in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including, but not limited to: the extent of government involvement; the level of development; the growth rate; the control of foreign exchange; the allocation of resources; an evolving regulatory system; and the level of transparency in the regulatory process. 14 While the Chinese economy has experienced significant growth in the past 20 years, growth has been uneven, both geographically, among various sectors of the economy, and during different periods. The Chinese economy may not continue to grow, and if there is growth, such growth may not be steady and uniform; and if there is a slowdown, such a slowdown may have a material negative effect on us. The Chinese government implements various measures intended to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. These measures may include differential policies towards specific groups of pharmaceutical companies, such as promotion of traditional medicines or state-owned companies, or investments in biopharmaceutical companies competing against us, which may have an adverse effect on us. Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. Further, any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on overall economic growth and the level of healthcare investments and expenditures in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our businesses. The Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although the Chinese government has implemented reform measures allowing more free play of market forces, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China is still owned by the Chinese government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the Chinese government could materially and adversely affect our business. The Chinese government also exercises significant control over Chinese economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency- denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. The Chinese government has implemented a comprehensive healthcare reform from 2009. The reform may not achieve the intended goals in one or more aspects, and consequently, any possible positive benefits in regard to our business and operations flowing from the reform measures, such as greater market demand, may not materialize. We are limited in our ability to predict the current and future effects of the healthcare reform, which could be materially adverse in one or more ways to our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes and developments in China’s economic, political and social conditions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In particular, the pharmaceutical market may grow at a slower pace than expected. An outbreak of avian flu, SARS, swine influenza or other epidemics in China could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Moreover, the political relationship between the United States, Europe, or other Asian nations and China is subject to sudden fluctuation and periodic tension. Changes in political conditions in China and changes in the state of foreign relations are difficult to predict and could adversely affect our operations. Future changes in laws, regulations or enforcement policies in China could adversely affect our business. Laws, regulations or enforcement policies in China, including those regulating healthcare and the pharmaceutical industry, are evolving and subject to frequent changes. Further, regulatory agencies in China may periodically, and sometimes abruptly, change their enforcement practices. Therefore, prior enforcement activity, or lack of enforcement activity, is not necessarily predictive of future actions. Any enforcement actions against us could have a material adverse effect on us. Any litigation or governmental investigation or enforcement proceedings in China may be protracted and may result in substantial cost and diversion of resources and management attention, negative publicity, and damage to reputation. In addition, such changes may be applied retroactively and thus subject our business and operations to increased uncertainties and risks. There are significant uncertainties under the Enterprise Income Tax (“EIT”) law of the PRC, with respect to our PRC enterprise income tax liabilities, and with respect to possible PRC withholding tax upon our shareholders and ADS holders. There are significant uncertainties under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and accompanying regulations and rules, or the EIT law. Under the EIT law, if we are deemed a PRC resident enterprise, we could be subject to the EIT at 25%, or any preferential rate, if obtained, on our global income, except that the dividends we receive from our PRC subsidiaries may be exempt from the EIT to the extent such dividends constitute “dividends among qualified PRC resident enterprises.” It is, however, unclear what type of enterprises would be deemed a “qualified resident enterprise” for such purposes. If we are deemed a resident enterprise and determined to have earned income other than exempted dividends from our PRC subsidiaries, the EIT on our global income could significantly increase our tax burden and adversely affect our cash flow and profitability. 15 Further, if we are deemed a PRC resident enterprise under the EIT law, our shareholders and ADS holders that are nonresident could be subject to the withholding income tax, or WHT, upon the dividends payable by us or upon any gains realized from the transfer of our shares or ADSs, if such income is deemed derived from China. The WHT rate is generally 10% to enterprises and 20% to individuals. It is unclear whether, if we are deemed a PRC resident enterprise, our shareholders and ADS holders might be able to claim the benefit of income tax treaties entered into between China and other countries. Alternatively, if we, as to the holding entities outside China, are deemed non-resident enterprise, the WHT may apply to the dividends (and interests on intercompany loans) paid by our PRC subsidiaries to the holding entities outside China. For the information regarding our holding structure, please refer to “4.C Organization Structure”. We have received various preferential tax treatments under the EIT law and its predecessor laws with respect to our operations and business. Shenyang Sunshine Pharmaceutical Company Limited, or Shenyang Sunshine, our wholly-owned PRC subsidiary, has been certified as a “New and High Technology Enterprise” that entitled it to a preferential EIT rate of 15% effective from January 1, 2011, to December 31, 2013. This and other past or future preferential tax treatments may expire, or be repealed, discontinued or otherwise modified, such that our tax burden could be materially increased. For more information, please refer to “4.B.11-d PRC Enterprise Income Tax”. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenue effectively. We receive nearly all of our revenue in Renminbi, which currently is not a freely convertible currency. A portion of our revenue may be converted into other currencies to meet our foreign currency obligations, including, among others, payment of dividends declared, if any, in respect of our ordinary shares. Under China’s existing foreign exchange regulations, we are able to pay dividends in foreign currencies without prior approval from the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or the SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, the PRC government may take measures to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. Our ability to obtain foreign exchange is subject to significant foreign exchange controls which in the case of amounts under the capital account, requires the approval of and/or registration with PRC government authorities, including the SAFE. In particular, if Shenyang Sunshine obtains foreign currency loans from foreign lenders, it must do so within approved limits that satisfy its approval documentation and PRC debt to equity ratio requirements. Further, such loans must be registered with the SAFE. These limitations could affect the ability of Shenyang Sunshine to obtain capital through offshore debt or equity financing. Exchange rate volatility may adversely affect our competitive position, financial position, operations, or otherwise. On July 21, 2005, the exchange rate of U.S. dollar to Renminbi ceased to peg the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Instead, the Renminbi has been pegged since that date to a basket of currencies, which components are adjusted based on changes in market demand and supply under a set of systematic principles. Since 2005, the Chinese government has widened the daily trading band for Renminbi against non-US dollar currencies from 0.15% to 1% to improve the flexibility of the new foreign exchange system. On June 20, 2010, the People’s Bank of China announced that the PRC government will pursue further reform and enhance the Renminbi exchange rate flexibility. It is difficult to predict how this new policy may impact the Renminbi exchange rate going forward. The Renminbi may be revalued further against the U.S. dollar or other currencies, or may be permitted to enter into a full or limited free float, which may result in an appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar or other currencies, any of which could give rise to uncertainties in our financial condition and results of operations. The Renminbi appreciated by approximately 31.4% against the U.S. dollar from July 21, 2005 to December 31, 2011. Any appreciation of the Renminbi may subject us to increased competition from imports; and any devaluation of the Renminbi may adversely affect the value of our net assets, earnings and financial results, and declared dividends in foreign currency terms, as well as our ability to import raw materials and equipment and service our foreign currency obligations. For example, to the extent that we need to convert our U.S. dollars holdings into the Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the Renminbi amount we receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs, purchasing equipment and raw materials from overseas, or other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. There are limited hedging tools available to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure, if at all. In addition, any currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into U.S. Dollars. 16 Our operations are subject to the uncertainties and particularities associated with the legal system in China, which could adversely affect our business, or limit the legal protection available to us or to existing or potential investors. We conduct our business through our operating subsidiaries in China, which are governed by PRC law. China is a civil law jurisdiction based on written codes and statutes. Unlike common law jurisdictions, prior court decisions may be cited as persuasive authority but do not have legally binding force. The PRC government has promulgated laws and regulations in relation to economic matters in general, such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade, with a view to establishing a comprehensive legal system conducive to investment activities. However, the implementation, interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations may involve greater uncertainty compared to those in the common law jurisdictions due to a relatively short legislative history, limited volume of court cases and their non-binding nature. Furthermore, many laws, regulations and legal requirements have only recently been adopted by the central or local government agencies, and their implementation, interpretation and enforcement may involve uncertainty due to the lack of established practice available for reference. PRC administrative and court authorities also have significant discretion in interpreting and enforcing statutory and contractual terms. It thus may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection available than in more developed legal systems. These uncertainties may also impede our ability to enforce the contracts we have entered into with our business partners, customers and suppliers. Vis-à-vis our competitors, depending on the government agency or how an application or a case is presented to such agency or other factors, we may receive less favorable application of law. In addition, any litigation or legal proceeding in China may be protracted and result in substantial legal costs and diversion of resources and management attention. We cannot predict the effect of future legal developments in China, including promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, the preemption of local rules and regulations by national law, the overturn or modification of the lower-level authority’s decisions at the higher level, or the changes in judiciary and administrative practices. As a result, there is substantial uncertainty as to the legal protection available to us or to our investors. There may be difficulties in effecting services of process and seeking recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments in China. Substantially all of our assets are located in China, and most of our senior management members and directors reside in China. However, China has not entered into treaties or arrangements providing for the recognition and enforcement of judgments made by the courts of the United States or most other jurisdictions. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for investors to effect service of process or enforce court judgments against our PRC subsidiaries, our assets, senior management members or directors in China. Changes in PRC government policy on foreign investment in China may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are subject to restrictions on foreign investment imposed by PRC law from time to time. For instance, under the Foreign Investment Industrial Guidance Catalogue, the latest version ("Catalogue") of which became effective on January 30, 2012, some industries are categorized as sectors which are encouraged, restricted or prohibited for foreign investment. We believe our business as structured is in due compliance with the Catalogue and other currently effective Chinese law and regulations. Kidney care services currently allows foreign ownership of up to 70%; and LSSTD is the principal party in our collaboration with DaVita, with us only exercising control over LSSTD through contractual arrangements with Liaoning Sunshine, LSSTD's parent. As the Catalogue is updated every few years, there can be no assurance that the PRC government will not change its policies in a manner that would cause part or all of our businesses to fall within the restricted or prohibited categories. If any of our businesses becomes prohibited or if we cannot obtain approval from relevant approval authorities to engage in businesses which become restricted for foreign investors, we may be forced to sell or restructure our businesses which have become restricted or prohibited for foreign investment. If we are forced to adjust our corporate structure or business line as a result of changes in government policy on foreign investment, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, is not permitted to be subject to inspection by Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, and as such, investors may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the SEC, Ernst & Young Hua Ming, as an auditor of the companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or PCAOB, is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditor is located in China, a jurisdiction where PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the PRC authorities, our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, is currently not inspected by PCAOB. Inspection of other firms that PCAOB has conducted outside of China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future auditor quality. The inability of PCAOB to conduct inspections of independent registered public accounting firms operating in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedure. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. 17 3.D.4 Risks Related To Our ADSs and Other Risks The market price for our ADSs may be volatile. The market price for our ADSs may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, as discussed under this Item 3.D and elsewhere in this annual report on Form 20-F, including, but not limited to, the following: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results and changes or revisions of our expected results; changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; announcements of studies and reports relating to the effectiveness or safety of our products or those of our competitors; announcements of technological or competitive developments; any litigation, governmental investigation or enforcement proceedings brought against us by authorities and industry regulators in China or elsewhere; announcements regarding patent litigation or the issuance of patents to us or our competitors; addition or departure of our senior management and key research and development personnel; changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other pharmaceutical or health care companies; economic, regulatory or political developments in China; and sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs, or increased supplies of ordinary shares or ADS, or the perception that such sales or supplies might occur. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. There have been a recent surge of lawsuit filings, regulatory actions, and hostile market manipulations against US-listed Chinese companies, based on allegations of accounting fraud, inadequate disclosure and improper transactions between related parties, and other issues. This development may adversely affect the market price of our ADSs and may affect us in other ways. Dr. Jing Lou, our chairman and chief executive officer, and his father, Mr. Dan Lou, control a number of shares sufficient to influence corporate actions. Dr. Jing Lou, our chairman and chief executive officer, and his father, Mr. Dan Lou, together owned or controlled approximately 9.71% of our outstanding ordinary shares as of December 31, 2011. The interests of the Lou family may differ from those of our other shareholders, and they may take actions that advance their interests to the detriment of our other shareholders. Acting together, they would have voting power to influence the outcome of corporate actions submitted to the shareholders for approval and could otherwise influence our management and affairs, including the election of our board of directors. Chairman Lou is not required to stand for election at any meeting of our shareholders, and therefore serves for an undetermined period of time. In addition, this concentration of ownership may prevent attempts to remove or replace senior management. Our articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could adversely affect the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Our amended and restated articles of association include provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. These provisions could also serve to entrench our existing board of directors and management. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix their designations, powers, preferences, privileges, and relative participating, optional or special rights and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares and ADS. Preferred shares could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. If our board of directors decides to issue preferred shares, the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be adversely affected. In addition, our articles of association provide that only a third of our board members must stand for re-election at any annual meeting. 18 Holders of ADSs have fewer or less rights than shareholders and must act through the depositary to exercise those rights. Holders of ADSs do not have the same rights as holders of our ordinary shares and ADS holders only have such rights as are specified in the deposit agreement, which generally are more restricted than the rights of holders of ordinary shares. Under the deposit agreement, if the vote is by show of hands, the depositary will vote the deposited securities in accordance with the voting instructions received from a majority of holders of ADSs that provided timely voting instructions. If the vote is by poll, the depositary will vote the deposited securities in accordance with the voting instructions it timely receives from ADS holders. In the event of poll voting, deposited securities for which no instructions are received will not be voted. Under our articles of association, the minimum notice period required to convene a general meeting is seven days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw your ordinary shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your shares. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ordinary shares are not voted as you requested. In addition, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to call a shareholder meeting. You may be subject to limitations on transfers of your ADSs; your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited; and you may not receive cash dividends or other distributions in certain cases. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, if we are not able to register in the United States the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, or to establish an exemption from the registration requirements, which may cause dilution to your holdings. In addition, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution of cash dividends or other distributions available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute such property, in which event you would not receive such distribution. Since we are a Cayman Islands company, you may have less protection of your shareholder rights than you would as an investor in a U.S. company. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, the rights of minority shareholders to institute actions, and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, the latter of which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States; and, some states in the United States, such as Delaware, have more developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. There is uncertainty regarding whether Cayman Islands courts would: recognize or enforce against us or our directors or officers judgments of courts of the United States predicated upon certain civil liability provisions of United States securities laws; or impose liability against us, in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, based on certain civil liability provisions of United States securities laws or laws of any state in the United States 19 Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the United States. As a result of all of the above, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by our management, directors or any controlling shareholder than they would as public shareholders of a United States company. In addition, as a foreign private issuer, we are not required to follow all the NASDAQ’s corporate governance requirements and certain other NASDAQ rules. As a result, holders of our ADSs may not have the same protection afforded to the shareholders of the companies that are subject to additional NASDAQ corporate governance requirements and rules. Please refer to “Item 16G Corporate Governance” for more information. Your ability to bring an action against us or against our directors and officers, or to enforce a judgment against us or them, will be limited, because, we are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, we conduct substantially all of our operations in China and the majority of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, and we conduct substantially all of our operations in China through our PRC subsidiaries and affiliated entities. Most of our directors and officers reside, and substantially all of the assets of those persons may be located, outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action in the United States against us or against these individuals in the event that you believe that your rights have been violated under United States securities laws or otherwise, including, that, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands or China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. 20 