Item 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities involves a number of risks. Before making a decision to purchase our securities, you should carefully consider all of the risks described in this annual report. If any of the risks discussed in this annual report actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If this were to occur, the trading price of our securities could decline significantly and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related To Our Business We may not be able to meet our cash requirements beyond June 2011 without obtaining additional capital from external sources, and if we are unable to do so, we may not be able to continue as a going concern. As of December 31, 2009, we had $5.4 million in cash and cash equivalents which, along with litigation settlement proceeds received in February 2010, we anticipate will meet our cash requirements through approximately June 2011. However, in order for us to continue as a going concern beyond that point, we may be required to obtain capital from external sources. If external financing sources are not available or are inadequate to fund our operations, it could result in reduced revenues and cash flows from the sales of our CustomArray products and diagnostic services and/or could jeopardize our ability to launch, market and sell additional products and services necessary to grow and sustain our operations in order to eventually achieve profitability. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, and if additional capital is not available on acceptable terms, we may have to curtail or cease operations. Our future capital requirements will be substantial and will depend on many factors, including how quickly we commercialize our products, the progress and scope of our collaborative and independent research and development projects, the filing, prosecution, enforcement and defense of patent claims and the need to obtain regulatory approval for certain products in the United States or elsewhere. Changes may occur that would cause our available capital resources to be consumed significantly sooner and more rapidly than we expect. We may be unable to raise sufficient additional capital on favorable terms or at all. If we fail to do so, we may have to curtail or cease operations or enter into agreements requiring us to relinquish rights to certain technologies, products, or markets because we will not have the capital necessary to exploit them. We have a history of losses and expect to incur additional losses in the future. We have sustained substantial losses since our inception. We may never become profitable, or if we do, we may never be able to sustain profitability. We expect to incur significant research and development, marketing, general and administrative expenses. As a result, we expect to incur losses for the foreseeable future. To date, we have relied primarily upon selling equity and convertible securities, as well as payments from strategic partners, to generate the funds needed to finance the implementation of our business strategies. We cannot assure you that we will not encounter unforeseen difficulties, including the outside influences identified above that may deplete our capital resources more rapidly than anticipated. As a result, our subsidiary companies may be required to obtain additional financing through bank borrowings, debt or equity financings or otherwise, which would require us to make additional investments or face a dilution of our equity interests. Any efforts to seek additional funds could be made through equity, debt or other external financings. Nevertheless, we cannot be sure that additional funding will be available on 23 Table of Contents favorable terms, if at all. If we fail to obtain additional funding when needed for our subsidiary companies and ourselves, we may not be able to execute our business plans or continue operations, and our business may suffer. We began commercialization of our CustomArray platform in 2004 and our molecular diagnostics services in 2006. Accordingly, we have a limited operating history of generating revenues from products and services. In addition, we are still developing our product and service offerings and you should consider our prospects in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies with such limited operating histories. Since we have a limited operating history, we cannot assure you that our operations will be profitable or that we will generate sufficient revenues to meet our expenditures and support our activities. If our stock price declines, this could result in a goodwill impairment. The market value of our company has been volatile and at times has approached our book value. Should our market value decline below our book value, our goodwill in the amount of $16.9 million as of December 31, 2009 could be impaired. The recent financial crisis could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The recent financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets and the going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit and equity markets. There could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on our business, including insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and/or customer insolvencies; and increased expense or inability to obtain financing for our operations. We are unable to predict the length or severity that the economic downturn could have on our operations. Because our business operations are subject to many uncontrollable outside influences, we may not succeed. Our business operations are subject to numerous risks from outside influences, including the following: •Technological advances may make our semiconductor based array technology obsolete or less competitive, and as a result, our revenue and the value of our assets could significantly decrease. Our products and services are dependent upon our semiconductor based array technology and our BAC array technology. These array-based technologies compete with conventional arrays that are used for the same purpose. Current array technologies have revolutionized drug discovery and development, and we believe that our array technology provides characteristics, including flexibility, superior cost metrics, and performance, all of which address certain needs of the life sciences market which are not addressed by conventional arrays and offers the latest in technological advances in this area. Our products and services are substantially dependent upon our ability to offer the latest in array technology in the SNP genotyping, gene expression profiling, CGH and proteomic markets. We believe technological advances of conventional arrays are currently being developed by our existing competition and potential new competitors in the market, including Affymetrix, Inc., Agilent Technologies, Inc., Applera Corporation, Baylor College of Medicine, Becton, Dickinson and Company, Ciphergen Biosystems, Inc., Gene Logic Inc., Genomic Health, Inc., Illumina, Inc., Johnson & Johnson, Nanogen, Inc., Orchid Biosciences, Inc., Roche Diagnostics GmbH, Sequenom, Inc and Signature Genomics. We also expect to face additional competition from new market entrants and consolidation of our existing competitors. Many of our competitors have existing strategic relationships with major pharmaceutical and biotechnology 24 Table of Contents companies, greater commercial experience and substantially greater financial and personnel resources than we do. We expect new competitors to emerge and the intensity of competition to increase in the future. If these companies are able to offer technological advances, our products may become less valuable or even obsolete. While we continue to invest resources in research and development to enhance the technology of our products and services, we cannot provide any assurance that our competitors or new competitors will not enter the market with the same or similar technological advances before we are able to do so. •New environmental regulation may materially increase the net losses of our business. Our operations involve the use, transportation, storage and disposal of hazardous substances, and as a result, we are subject to environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. If we were to be found in violation of these laws and regulations, we may face fines or other penalties. Also, any changes in these laws and regulations could increase our compliance costs, and as a result, could materially increase our net losses. •Our technologies face uncertain market value. Our business includes many products, some of which were recently introduced into the market. These technologies and products have not gained widespread market acceptance, and we cannot provide any assurance that the increase, if any, in market acceptance of these technologies and products will meet or exceed our expectations. Further, we are developing products and services, some of which have not yet been introduced into the market. The level of market acceptance of these technologies, products and services will have a significant impact upon our results of operations, and we cannot provide any assurance that the increase, if any, in market acceptance of these technologies and products will meet or exceed our expectations. •We obtain components and raw materials from a limited number of sources, and the loss or interruption of our supply sources may adversely impact our ability to manufacture our products to meet our existing or future sales targets. Substantially all of the components and raw materials used in the manufacture of our products, including semiconductors and reagents, are currently provided from a limited number of sources or, in some cases, from a single source. Although we believe that alternative sources for those components and raw materials are available, any supply interruption in a sole-sourced component or raw material might result in significant production delays and materially harm our ability to manufacture products until a new source of supply, if any, could be located and qualified. In addition, an uncorrected impurity or supplier's variation in a raw material, either unknown to us or incompatible with our manufacturing process, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manufacture products. We may be unable to find a sufficient alternative supply channel in a reasonable time period, or on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Any one of the foregoing outside influences may cause our company to need additional financing to meet the challenges presented or to compensate for a loss in revenue, and we may not be able to obtain the needed financing on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Further, any one of the foregoing outside influences affecting our business could make it less likely that we will be able to gain acceptance of our array technology by researchers in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and academic communities. 25 Table of Contents Our revenues will be unpredictable, and this may harm our financial condition. The amount and timing of revenues that we may realize from our business will be unpredictable because whether our products and services are commercialized and generate revenues depends, in part, on the efforts and timing of our potential customers. Also, our sales cycles may be lengthy. As a result, our revenues may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, which could make our business difficult to manage and cause our quarterly results to be below market expectations. If this happens, the price of our common stock may decline significantly. We are deploying new and unproven technologies, which makes evaluation of our business and prospects difficult, and we may be forced to cease operations if we do not develop commercially successful products. We have not proven our ability to commercialize products on a large scale. In order to successfully commercialize products on a large scale, we will have to make significant investments, including investments in research and development and testing, to demonstrate their technical benefits and cost-effectiveness. Problems frequently encountered in connection with the commercialization of products using new and unproven technologies might limit our ability to develop and commercialize our products. For example, our products may be found to be ineffective, unreliable or otherwise unsatisfactory to potential customers. We may experience unforeseen technical complications in the processes we use to develop, manufacture, or receive orders for our products. These complications could materially delay or limit the use of products we attempt to commercialize, substantially increase the anticipated cost of our products, or prevent us from implementing our processes at appropriate quality and scale levels, thereby causing our business to suffer. The genetic diagnostic laboratory market is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, and evolving industry standards, and we may encounter difficulties keeping pace with changes in this market. The introduction of diagnostic tests embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards can render existing tests obsolete and unmarketable in short periods of time. We expect our competitors to introduce new products and services and enhancements to their existing products and services. Our future success will depend upon our ability to enhance our current tests, and to develop new tests, in a manner that keeps pace with emerging industry standards and achieves market acceptance. Our inability to accomplish any of these endeavors will likely have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows, and financial condition. If we do not enter into successful partnerships and collaborations with other companies, we may not be able to fully develop our technologies or products, and our business would be harmed. Since we do not possess all of the resources necessary to develop and commercialize products that may result from our technologies on a mass scale, we will need either to grow our sales, marketing and support group or make appropriate arrangements with strategic partners to market, sell and support our products. We believe that we will have to enter into additional strategic partnerships to develop and commercialize future products. If we do not enter into adequate agreements, or if our existing arrangements or future agreements are not successful, our ability to develop and commercialize products will be impacted negatively, and our revenues will be adversely affected. We have limited experience commercially manufacturing, marketing, or selling any of our potential products and services, and unless we develop these capabilities, we may not be successful. Even if we are able to develop our products and services for commercial release on a large scale, we have limited experience in manufacturing our products in the volumes that will be necessary for us to achieve commercial sales and in marketing or selling our products to potential customers. We cannot 26 Table of Contents assure you that we will be able to commercially produce our products on a timely basis, in sufficient quantities, or on commercially reasonable terms. We face intense competition, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful competing in the market. We expect to compete with companies that design, manufacture and market instruments for analysis of genetic variation and function and other applications using established sequential and parallel testing technologies. We are also aware of other biotechnology companies that have or are developing testing technologies for the SNP genotyping, gene expression profiling, CGH and proteomic markets. We anticipate that we will face increased competition in the future as new companies enter the market with new technologies and our competitors improve their current products or introduce new ones. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, changes in customer needs, emerging competition and new product introductions. One or more of our competitors may offer technology superior to ours and render our technology obsolete or uneconomical. Many of our competitors have greater financial and personnel resources and more experience in marketing, sales and research and development than we have. Some of our competitors currently offer arrays with greater density than we do and have rights to intellectual property, such as genomic information or proprietary technology, which provides them with a competitive advantage. If we were not able to compete successfully, our business and financial condition would be materially harmed. If our new and unproven technology is not used by researchers in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and academic communities, or by physicians and laboratories in the diagnostics market, our business will suffer. Our products may not gain market acceptance. In that event, it is unlikely that our business will succeed. Biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, academic research centers and reference laboratories have historically analyzed genetic variation and function using a variety of technologies, and many of them have made significant capital investments in existing technologies. Compared to existing technologies, our technologies are new and unproven. In order to be successful, our products must meet the commercial requirements of the biotechnology, pharmaceutical and academic communities as tools for the large-scale analysis of genetic variation and function. Market acceptance will depend on many factors, including: •the development of a market for our tools and diagnostic services for the analysis of genetic variation and function, including the study of proteins and other purposes; •the benefits and cost-effectiveness of our products relative to others available in the market; •our ability to manufacture products in sufficient quantities with acceptable quality and reliability and at an acceptable cost; •our ability to develop and market additional products and enhancements to existing products that are responsive to the changing needs of our customers; •the willingness and ability of customers to adopt new technologies requiring capital investments or the reluctance of customers to change technologies in which they have made a significant investment; and •the willingness of customers to transmit test data and permit us to transmit test results over the Internet, which will be a necessary component of our product and services packages unless customers purchase or license our equipment for use in their own facilities. 27 Table of Contents A significant component of our revenue is dependent on successful insurance claims. Our revenue will be diminished if payors do not adequately cover or reimburse us for our services. Physicians and patients may decide not to order our high-complexity genomic microarray tests unless third-party payors, such as managed care organizations as well as government payors such as Medicare and Medicaid, pay a substantial portion of the test price. Reimbursement by a third-party payor may depend on a number of factors, including a payor's determination that tests using our technologies are: •not experimental or investigational; •medically necessary; •appropriate for the specific patient; •cost-effective; •supported by peer-reviewed publications; and •included in clinical practice guidelines. A substantial portion of the testing for which we bill our hospital and laboratory clients is ultimately paid by third-party payors. However, there is uncertainty concerning third-party payor reimbursement of any test, including our high-complexity genome microarray tests. Several entities conduct technology assessments of medical tests and devices and provide the results of their assessments for informational purposes to other parties. These assessments may be used by third-party payors and health care providers as grounds to deny coverage for a test or procedure. Although our tests have been determined to be a standard of care by several of the physician colleges and organizations in our arena, and we have received appropriate reimbursements from a number of insurers it is possible that federal, state and third party insurers may limit their coverage of our tests in the future. Increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States is likely to put pressure on the pricing of healthcare services. Uncertainty exists as to the coverage and reimbursement status of new applications or services. Governmental payors and private payors are scrutinizing new medical products and services. Such third-parties may not cover, or may limit coverage and resulting reimbursement for our services. Additionally, third-party insurance coverage may not be available to patients for any of our existing assays or assays we may discover and develop in the future. Any pricing pressure exerted by these third-party payors on our customers may, in turn, be exerted by our customers on us. If governmental payors, including their contracted administrators, and other third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage and/or timely reimbursement for our services, our operating results, cash flows, or financial condition may decline. Our cash flows and financial condition may decline if payors do not reimburse us for our services in a timely manner. We depend on our payors to reimburse us for our services in timely manner. If our payors, particularly Medicare or Medicare's designated administrator, does not reimburse us in a timely manner, our cash flows and financial condition may decline. Third party billing is extremely complicated and could result in us incurring significant additional costs. Billing for esoteric laboratory services is extremely complicated. The customer is the party that refers the tests and the payor is the party that pays for the tests, and the two are not always the same. Depending on the billing arrangement and/or applicable law, we need to bill various payors, such as patients, health insurance companies, Medicare, Medicaid, doctors and employer groups, all of which have different billing requirements. Health insurance companies and governmental payors also generally require complete and correct billing information within certain filing deadlines. Additionally, our billing relationships require us 28 Table of Contents to undertake internal audits to evaluate compliance with applicable laws and regulations as well as internal compliance policies and procedures. Health insurance companies also impose routine external audits to evaluate payments made. Additional factors complicating billing are: •pricing differences between our fee schedules and the reimbursement rates of the payors; •disputes with payors as to which party is responsible for payment; and •disparity in coverage and information requirements among various carriers. We incur significant additional costs as a result of our participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, as billing and reimbursement for laboratory testing are subject to considerable and complex federal and state regulations. The additional costs we expect to incur as a result of our participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs include costs related to, among other factors: (1) complexity added to our billing processes; (2) training and education of our employees and customers; (3) implementing compliance procedures and oversight; (4) collections and legal costs; (5) challenging coverage and payment denials; and (6) providing patients with information regarding claims processing and services, such as advanced beneficiary notices. Complying with numerous regulations pertaining to our business is an expensive and time-consuming process, failure of which could result in significant penalties and our suspension of one or more licenses. The clinical laboratory testing industry is highly regulated. We are subject to CLIA, a federal law that regulates clinical laboratories that perform testing on specimens derived from humans for the purpose of providing information for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of disease. CLIA is intended to ensure the quality and reliability of clinical laboratories in the United States by mandating specific standards in the areas of personnel qualifications, administration, and participation in proficiency testing, patient test management, quality control, quality assurance and inspections. We have a current certificate of accreditation under CLIA to perform testing. To renew this certificate, we are subject to survey and inspection every two years. Moreover, CLIA inspectors may make random inspections of our clinical reference laboratory. We are also required to maintain a license to conduct testing in California. California laws establish standards for day-to-day operation of our clinical reference laboratory, including the training and skills required of personnel and quality control. Moreover, several states require that we hold licenses to test specimens from patients in those states. Other states may have similar requirements or may adopt similar requirements in the future. Loss of or adverse changes to our accreditations or licenses could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects and results of operations. We may be subject to regulation in foreign jurisdictions as we seek to expand international distribution of our test. Areas of the regulatory environment that may affect our ability to conduct business include, without limitation: •Federal and state laws applicable to billing and claims payment and/or regulatory agencies enforcing those laws and regulations; •Federal and state laboratory anti-mark-up laws; •Federal and state anti-kickback laws; •Federal and state false claims laws; •Federal and state self-referral and financial inducement laws, including the federal physician anti-self-referral law, or the Stark Law; 29 Table of Contents •Coverage and reimbursement levels by Medicare, Medicaid, other governmental payors and private insurers; •Restrictions on reimbursements for our services; •Federal and state laws governing laboratory testing, including CLIA; •Federal and state laws governing the development, use and distribution of diagnostic medical tests known as "home brews"; •HIPAA; •Federal and state regulation of privacy, security and electronic transactions; •State laws regarding prohibitions on the corporate practice of medicine; •State laws regarding prohibitions on fee-splitting; •Federal, state and local laws governing the handling and disposal of medical and hazardous waste; and •Occupational Safety and Health Administration ("OSHA") rules and regulations. The above noted laws and regulations are extremely complex and in many instances, there are no significant regulatory or judicial interpretations of such laws and regulations. While we believe that we are currently in material compliance with applicable laws and regulations, a determination that we have violated these laws, or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of these laws, would adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, a significant change in any of these laws may require us to change our business model in order to maintain compliance with these laws, which could reduce our revenue or increase our costs and adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations, and financial condition. We are subject to significant environmental, health and safety regulation. We are subject to licensing and regulation under federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and human health and safety, including laws and regulations relating to the handling, transportation and disposal of medical specimens, infectious and hazardous waste and radioactive materials, as well as to the safety and health of laboratory employees. In addition, the OSHA has established extensive requirements relating to workplace safety for health care employers, including clinical laboratories, whose workers may be exposed to blood-borne pathogens such as HIV and the hepatitis B virus. These regulations, among other things, require work practice controls, protective clothing and equipment, training, medical follow-up, vaccinations, and other measures designed to minimize exposure to, and transmission of, blood-borne pathogens. In addition, the federally-enacted Needlestick Safety and Prevention Act requires, among other things, that we include in our safety programs the evaluation and use of engineering controls such as safety needles if found to be effective at reducing the risk of needlestick injuries in the workplace. If we are found in violation of any of these regulations, we could be subject substantial penalties or discipline and our business, prospects and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to federal and state laws governing the financial relationship among healthcare providers, including Medicare & Medicaid laws, and our failure to comply with these laws could result in significant penalties and other adverse consequences. As our business grows, particularly in the cancer arena, we anticipate that a significant component of our revenue will be dependent on reimbursement from Medicare and state Medicaid programs. The Medicare program is administered by CMS which, like the states that administer their respective state Medicaid programs, imposes extensive and detailed requirements on diagnostic services providers, 30 Table of Contents including, but not limited to, rules that govern how we structure our relationships with physicians, how and when we submit reimbursement claims and how we provide our specialized diagnostic services. Our failure to comply with applicable Medicare, Medicaid and other governmental payor rules could result in our inability to participate in a governmental payor program, our returning of funds already paid to us, civil monetary penalties, criminal penalties and/or limitations on the operational function of our laboratory. Our business is subject to stringent laws and regulations governing the privacy, security and transmission of medical information, and our failure to comply could subject us to criminal penalties and civil sanctions. Governmental laws and regulations affect the privacy, security and transmission of medical information. Such laws and regulations restrict our ability to use or disclose patient identifiable laboratory data, without patient authorization, for purposes other than payment, treatment or healthcare operations (as defined by HIPAA), except for disclosures for various public policy purposes and other permitted purposes outlined in the privacy regulations. The privacy and security regulations provide for significant fines and other penalties for wrongful use or disclosure of PHI, including potential civil and criminal fines and penalties. Although the HIPAA statute and regulations do not expressly provide for a private right of damages, we also could incur damages under state laws to private parties for the wrongful use or disclosure of confidential health information or other private personal information. Our product development efforts may be hindered if we are unable to gain access to patients' tissue and blood samples. The development of our diagnostic products requires access to tissue and blood samples from patients who have the diseases we are addressing. Our clinical development relies on our ability to secure access to these samples, as well as information pertaining to their associated clinical outcomes. Access to samples can be difficult since it may involve multiple levels of approval, complex usage rights and privacy rights, among other issues. If our current laboratory facility becomes inoperable or loses certification, we will be unable to perform our tests and our business will be harmed. Our diagnostic tests are operated out of our CLIA-certified laboratory in Irvine, California. Currently, we do not have a second certified laboratory. Should our only CLIA-certified laboratory be unable to perform tests, for any reason, we may be unable to perform needed diagnostic tests in connection with our product development and our business will be harmed. Our future success depends on the continued service of our engineering, technical and key management personnel and our ability to identify, hire and retain additional engineering, technical and key management personnel. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in our industry, particularly for engineers and senior level management. Loss of the services of, or failure to recruit, engineers or other technical and key management personnel could be significantly detrimental to the group and could adversely affect our business and operating results. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain engineers or other qualified personnel necessary for the development of our products and business or to replace engineers or other qualified personnel who may leave the group in the future. Our anticipated growth is expected to place increased demands on our resources and likely will require the addition of new management personnel. An inability to recruit and retain qualified management and employees on commercially reasonable terms would adversely and materially affect our business. 31 Table of Contents The expansion of our product lines may subject us to regulation by the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities, of which regulation could prevent or delay our introduction of new products. If we manufacture, market, or sell any products for any regulated clinical or diagnostic applications, those products will be subject to extensive governmental regulation as medical devices in the United States by the FDA and in other countries by corresponding foreign regulatory authorities. The process of obtaining and maintaining required regulatory clearances and approvals is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. Products that we manufacture, market, or sell for research purposes only currently are not subject to governmental regulations as medical devices or as analyte specific reagents to aid in disease diagnosis. We believe that our success will depend upon commercial sales of improved versions of products, some of which cannot be marketed in the United States and other regulated markets unless and until we obtain clearance or approval from the FDA and our foreign counterparts, as the case may be. Delays or failures in receiving these approvals may limit our ability to benefit from our new products. As our operations expand, our costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations will increase, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could harm our financial results. Our operations involve the use, transportation, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and as a result we are subject to environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. As we expand our operations, our use of hazardous substances will increase and lead to additional and more stringent requirements. The cost to comply with these and any future environmental and health and safety regulations could be substantial. In addition, our failure to comply with laws and regulations, and any releases of hazardous substances into the environment or at our disposal sites, could expose our group to substantial liability in the form of fines, penalties, remediation costs and other damages, or could lead to a curtailment or shut down of our operations. These types of events, if they occur, would adversely impact our financial results. Our business depends on issued and pending patents, and the loss of any patents or our failure to secure the issuance of patents covering elements of our business processes could materially harm our business and financial condition. Our success depends on our ability to protect and exploit our intellectual property. Currently, we have nine patents issued in the United States, 30 patents issued internationally, 21 patent applications pending in the United States and 54 patent applications pending internationally. The patents covering our core technology begin to expire January 5, 2018. The patent application process before the United States Patent and Trademark Office and similar agencies in other countries is initially confidential in nature. Patent applications that are filed outside the United States, however, are published approximately eighteen months after filing. Similarly, patent applications that are filed in the United States will be published approximately eighteen months after filing unless the applicant has opted out of publication and will not file any foreign applications on the same invention. Due to the confidential nature of the patent application process, we cannot determine in a timely manner whether patent applications covering technology that competes with our technology have been filed in the United States or foreign countries or which, if any, will ultimately issue or be granted as enforceable patents. Considering our patent applications and those of others, some of our patent applications may claim compositions, methods, or uses that may also be claimed in patent applications filed by others. In some or all of these applications, a determination of priority of inventorship may need to be decided in a proceeding before the United States Patent and Trademark Office or a court. In contrast, in foreign jurisdictions, the first to file on the invention will generally prevail on a priority contest. If we are unsuccessful in these invention ownership proceedings, we could be blocked from further developing, commercializing, or selling products and services that fall under the scope of the claims of the patents that are issued to others. Regardless of the ultimate outcome, this ownership determination process can be time-consuming and expensive. 32 Table of Contents If we do not protect our intellectual property adequately, competitors may be able to use our technologies and erode any competitive advantage that we may have. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting their proprietary rights abroad. These problems can be caused by the absence of laws, rules and/or methods for defending intellectual property rights. The patent position of companies developing tools for the biotechnology, pharmaceutical and academic communities, including our patent position, generally are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. Our existing patents and any future issued or granted patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad in scope to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products. Also there is a risk that others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies. In addition, others may cause reexamination of our patents in the United States or may oppose our patents in Europe, either of which may result in narrower patent claims or cancellation of some or all of the patent claims. Moreover, our patents may be invalidated during enforcement proceedings or may fail to provide us with any competitive advantage. Enforcing our intellectual property rights may be difficult, costly, and time-consuming and, ultimately, may not be successful. We also rely upon trade secret protection of our confidential and proprietary information. While we have taken security measures to protect our proprietary information, these measures may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information. We seek to protect our proprietary information by entering into confidentiality and invention disclosure and transfer agreements with employees, collaborators and consultants. Nevertheless, employees, collaborators, or consultants still may disclose our proprietary information in breach of such agreements, and we may not be able to meaningfully protect our trade secrets. In addition, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Any litigation to protect our intellectual property, or any third-party claims of infringement, could divert substantial time and money from our business and could shut down some of our operations. Our commercial success depends, in part, on our non-infringement of the patents or proprietary rights of third parties. Many companies developing technology for the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries use litigation aggressively as a strategy to protect and expand the scope of their intellectual property rights. Accordingly, third parties may assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. In addition, third parties may claim that use of our technologies infringes their current or future patents. We could incur substantial costs defending against such allegations regardless of their merit, and the attention of our management and technical personnel could be diverted while defending ourselves against any of these claims. We may incur the same liabilities in enforcing our patents against others. We have not made any provision in our financial plans for potential intellectual property related litigation, and we may not be able to pursue litigation as aggressively as competitors with substantially greater financial resources. If parties making infringement claims against us are successful, they may be able to obtain injunctive or other relief, which effectively could block our ability to further develop, commercialize, and sell products and/or services, and could result in the award of substantial damages against us. If we are unsuccessful in protecting and expanding the scope of our intellectual property rights, our competitors may be able to develop, commercialize, and sell products and/or services that compete against us using similar technologies or obtain patents that could effectively block our ability to further develop, commercialize, and sell our products and/or services. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay substantial damages and either discontinue those aspects of our business involving the technology upon which we infringed or obtain one or more licenses from third parties. While we may 33 Table of Contents license additional technology in the future, we may not be able to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, or at all. In that event, we could encounter delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative methods or products, and such attempts may not be successful. Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any of these licenses could prevent us from commercializing available products and/or services. If parties making infringement claims against us are successful, they may be able to obtain injunctive or other relief, which effectively could block our ability to further develop, commercialize, and sell products and/or services, and could result in the award of substantial damages against us. If we are unsuccessful in protecting and expanding the scope of our intellectual property rights, our competitors may be able to develop, commercialize, and sell products and/or services that compete against us using similar technologies or obtain patents that could effectively block our ability to further develop, commercialize, and sell our products and/or services. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay substantial damages and either discontinue those aspects of our business involving the technology upon which we infringed or obtain one or more licenses from third parties. While we may license additional technology in the future, we may not be able to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, or at all. In that event, we could encounter delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative methods or products, and such attempts may not be successful. Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any of these licenses could prevent us from commercializing available products and/or services. We could face substantial liabilities if we are sued for product liability. Product liability claims could be filed by someone alleging that our product failed to perform as claimed. We may also be subject to liability for errors in the performance of our tests. Such product liability and related claims could be substantial. Though we believe we carry sufficient liability insurance, defense of such claims could be time consuming and expensive and could result in damages that are not covered by our insurance. Failure to effectively manage our growth could place strains on our managerial, operational and financial resources and could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our growth has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources. Further, as our subsidiary companies' businesses grow, we will be required to manage multiple relationships. Any further growth by us or our subsidiary companies or an increase in the number of our strategic relationships will increase this strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources. This strain may inhibit our ability to achieve the rapid execution necessary to successfully implement our business plan. Our future success depends on our ability to expand our organization to match the growth of our subsidiaries. As our subsidiaries grow, the administrative demands upon our management will grow, and our success will depend upon our ability to meet those demands. These demands include increased accounting, management, legal services, staff support for our board of directors, and general office services. We may need to hire additional qualified personnel to meet these demands, the cost and quality of which is dependent in part upon market factors outside of our control. Further, we will need to effectively manage the training and growth of our staff to maintain an efficient and effective workforce, and our failure to do so could adversely affect our business and operating results. 34 Table of Contents As a public company, we are subject to complex legal and accounting requirements that will require us to incur substantial expense and will expose us to risk of non-compliance. As a public company, we are subject to numerous legal and accounting requirements that do not apply to private companies. The cost of compliance with many of these requirements is substantial, not only in absolute terms but, more importantly, in relation to the overall scope of the operations of a small company. Our relative inexperience with these requirements may increase the cost of compliance and may also increase the risk that we will fail to comply. Failure to comply with these requirements can have numerous adverse consequences including, but not limited to, our inability to file required periodic reports on a timely basis, loss of market confidence, delisting of our securities and/or governmental or private actions against us. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with all of these requirements or that the cost of such compliance will not prove to be a substantial competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis our privately held and larger public competitors. Ethical, legal and social concerns surrounding the use of genetic information could reduce demand for our products. Genetic testing has raised ethical issues regarding privacy and the appropriate uses of the resulting information. For these reasons, governmental authorities may call for limits on or regulation of the use of genetic testing or prohibit testing for genetic predisposition to certain conditions, particularly for those that have no known cure. Similarly, such concerns may lead individuals to refuse to use genetics tests even if permissible. Any of these scenarios could reduce the potential markets for our molecular diagnostic products, of which reduction could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related To Investment In Our Securities Technology company stock prices are especially volatile, and this volatility may depress the price of our stock. The stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, and the market prices of technology companies, particularly biotechnology companies, has been highly volatile. In addition, our stock has historically experienced greater price fluctuations than the biotechnology index of other Nasdaq listed stock. We believe that various factors may cause the market price of our stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including, among others, announcements of: •our or our competitors' technological innovations; •developments or disputes concerning patents or proprietary rights; •supply, manufacturing, or distribution disruptions or other similar problems; •proposed laws regulating participants in the biotechnology industry; •developments in relationships with collaborative partners or customers; •our failure to meet or exceed securities analysts' expectations of our financial results; or •a change in financial estimates or securities analysts' recommendations. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the objects of securities class action litigation. If our stock was the object of securities class action litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, all of which could materially harm the business and financial results of our business. 35 Table of Contents While warrants to purchase our common stock are outstanding, it may be more difficult to raise additional equity capital. As of December 31, 2009, there were outstanding warrants to purchase approximately 3.9 million shares of our common stock. We may find it more difficult to raise additional equity capital while some or all of these warrants are outstanding. At any time during which these warrants are likely to be exercised, we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, or at all. If we are unable to obtain financing, our business, results of operations, or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected, and we could be forced to curtail or cease operations. Future sales or the potential for future sales of our securities may cause the trading price of our common stock to decline and could impair our ability to raise capital through subsequent equity offerings. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other securities in the public markets, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock or other securities to decline and could materially impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional securities. We may fail to meet market expectations because of fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, all of which could cause our stock price to decline. Our revenues and operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter in the future. It is possible that, in future periods, our revenues could fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, all of which could cause the market price of our stock to decline. The following are among the factors that could cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly from period to period: •our unpredictable revenue sources, as described below; •the nature, pricing and timing of our and our competitors' products; •changes in our and our competitors' research and development budgets; •expenses related to, and our ability to comply with, governmental regulations of our products and processes; and •expenses related to, and the results of, patent filings and other proceedings relating to intellectual property rights. We anticipate significant fixed expenses due in part to our need to continue to invest in product development. We may be unable to adjust our expenditures if revenues in a particular period fail to meet our expectations, all of which would harm our operating results for that period. As a result of these fluctuations, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our financial results will not necessarily be meaningful, and you should not rely on these comparisons as an indication of our future performance. Risks Related To Our Split-Off From Acacia Research Corporation Our separation agreements with Acacia require us to assume the past, present and future liabilities related to our business and may be less favorable to us than if they had been negotiated with unaffiliated third parties. We have negotiated and entered into our separation agreements with Acacia at a time when we were a wholly owned subsidiary of Acacia and they were our only shareholder. Had these agreements been negotiated with unaffiliated third parties, they might have been more favorable to us. Pursuant to the terms of these agreements, we have agreed to indemnify Acacia for, among other matters, all past, present and future liabilities related to our business, and we have assumed these liabilities under the separation 36 Table of Contents agreements. The past, present and future liabilities assumed by us are the same as those previously allocated to us prior to the Split-Off and reflected in our consolidated financial statements included in this report and disclosed by us in previous filings with the SEC as well as by Acacia. Nonetheless, the allocation of assets and liabilities between Acacia and us may not reflect the allocation that would have been reached between two unaffiliated parties. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 