ITEM 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated by reference herein. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe that the following information identifies the material risk factors affecting our company in each of the noted risk categories: (i) Risks Relating to Our Business; (ii) Risks Relating to Our Clearing and Outsourcing Solutions Business; and (iii) Risks Relating to Our Recent Separation from ADP. However, additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. -17- Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Business Future consolidation in the financial services industry could adversely affect our revenues by eliminating some of our existing and potential clients and could make us more dependent on a more limited number of clients. There has been and continues to be merger, acquisition and consolidation activity in the financial services industry. Mergers or consolidations of financial institutions in the future could reduce the number of our clients and potential clients. If our clients merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our clients, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce the use of our services. In addition, it is possible that the larger financial institutions resulting from mergers or consolidations could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services that we currently provide or could provide. Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. For example, one of our large clients has recently been acquired and has elected to utilize the proprietary services of the acquiring firm. As anticipated, during our fourth quarter this client terminated services provided through our Securities Processing Solutions and Clearing and Outsourcing Solutions businesses. However, we will continue to provide this client, and its acquiror (which was an existing client), with proxy distribution and related services. The client generated $37.6 million and $39.7 million of revenue in fiscal year 2007 and fiscal year 2006, respectively, with respect to the services being terminated. The proxy distribution and related services that we will continue to provide to this client and the acquiror generated $34.5 million and $32.6 million of revenue in fiscal year 2007 and fiscal year 2006, respectively. A large percentage of our revenues is derived from a small number of clients in the financial services industry. In fiscal 2007, we derived approximately 24% of our revenues from five clients. Our largest single client accounted for between 5-6% of our revenues. While these clients generally work with multiple business segments, the loss of business from any of these clients due to client consolidation or non-renewal of contracts would have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Moreover, we cannot assure you that we will be able to renew any of our contracts on terms we consider favorable. A client of our Investor Communication Solutions business segment, that was one of our four largest clients in fiscal year 2007, terminated its contract for account statement processing and distribution services in February, 2007. However, we will continue to provide this client with proxy distribution and related services. This client generated $28.3 million and $44.8 million of revenue in fiscal year 2007 and fiscal year 2006, respectively with respect to the services being terminated. The proxy distribution and related services that we will continue to provide to this client generated $62.7 million and $45.2 million of revenue in fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, respectively. The financial services industry has experienced increasing scrutiny by regulatory authorities in recent years and further changes in legislation or regulations may affect our ability to conduct our business or may reduce our profitability. The legislative and regulatory environment of the financial services industry has undergone significant change in the past and may undergo further change in the future. The SEC, FINRA, various securities exchanges and other U.S. and foreign governmental or regulatory authorities continuously review legislative and regulatory initiatives and may adopt new or revised laws and regulations. These legislative and regulatory initiatives may affect the way in which we conduct our business and may make our business less profitable. Changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations by those entities may also adversely affect our business. A large portion of our Investor Communication Solutions involves proxy distribution, processing, and voting services. On December 13, 2006, the SEC adopted amendments to its proxy rules that allow public companies an option to follow a “notice and access” model of proxy material delivery (the “Voluntary Rule”). The Voluntary Rule went into effect on July 1, 2007. On July 26, 2007, the SEC adopted further rule amendments that require public companies and soliciting persons to furnish proxy materials to stockholders by posting them on an Internet website other than the SEC’s EDGAR website (the “Universal Rule”). Please refer to Item 1 of Part I “Business — Regulation” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on these developments. -18- Table of Contents The adopted changes will result in our having to perform additional processing in connection with the provision of the proxy services. We believe that the volume of items to be mailed will remain unchanged. However, the weight of the packages will be less, resulting in lower distribution revenues. While we anticipate deriving additional revenue from a variety of services we will provide on behalf of Intermediaries in order for them to comply with the new rules, as well as optional services we will provide to public companies such as website hosting, document conversion, and warehousing of paper proxy materials, we do not expect that our revenues from these services will completely offset the anticipated decrease in distribution revenues. However, we do not expect that the rule changes will result in a material change to our net earnings derived from the proxy services. In addition, in 2005 the NYSE convened a Proxy Working Group to review the NYSE’s rules regarding the participation of its brokerage firm members in the proxy voting process. A report issued by the Proxy Working Group in June 2006 recommended that the NYSE amend existing rules that allow brokers, in certain circumstances, to vote in uncontested director elections. The Proxy Working Group has made other recommendations including that the NYSE review our role in the proxy process. The Proxy Working Group recommendations and any additional proposals by the SEC to change the proxy rules could result in further changes to the regulations and practices regarding the distribution of proxy materials, proxy voting and stockholder communications. Any such changes may result in a negative effect on our Investor Communication Solutions business. Moreover, if additional modifications to the current regulatory regime are enacted that allow for Internet delivery of additional types of investor communications without requiring that a notice be sent to stockholders, our revenues and results of operations in the Investor Communication Solutions business could be adversely affected. Also, certain of the securities processing services we provide may be deemed to be mission-critical functions of financial institutions that are regulated by one or more member agencies of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (“FFIEC”). We are therefore subject to examination by the member agencies of the FFIEC. The FFIEC conducts periodic reviews of certain of our operations in order to identify existing or potential risks associated with our operations that could adversely affect the financial institutions to which we provide services, evaluates our risk management systems and controls, and determines our compliance with applicable laws that affect the services we provide to financial institutions. In addition to examining areas such as our management of technology, data integrity, information confidentiality and service availability, the reviews also assess our financial stability. A sufficiently unfavorable review from the FFIEC could result in our clients not being allowed to use our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our revenues may decrease due to declines in trading volume, market prices, liquidity of securities markets or proprietary trading activity. We generate significant revenues from the transaction processing fees we earn from our investor communication, securities processing, and clearing and outsourcing services (including the interest income from our margin lending activities and interest earned by investing clients’ cash). These revenue sources are substantially dependent on customer trading volumes, market prices and liquidity of securities markets. Over the past several years the U.S. and foreign securities markets have experienced significant volatility. Sudden sharp or gradual but sustained declines in market values of securities can result in: • reduced investor communication activity, including reduced mutual funds communication volumes, reduced mergers and acquisitions and reduced proxy activity; -19- Table of Contents • reduced trading activity; • illiquid markets; • declines in the market values of securities carried by our clients and clearing correspondents; • the failure of buyers and sellers of securities to fulfill their settlement obligations; • reduced margin loan balances of investors; and • increases in claims and litigation. The occurrence of any of these events would likely result in reduced revenues and decreased profitability from our investor communication solutions, securities processing solutions, and clearing and outsourcing solutions activities. Breaches of our information security policies or safeguards, or those of our outsourced data center services provider, could adversely affect our ability to operate, could result in the personal or account information of our clients’ customers being misappropriated, and may cause us to be held liable or suffer harm to our reputation. We process and transfer the personal and account information of customers of financial institutions. Our clients are subject to laws and regulations in the United States and other jurisdictions designed to protect the privacy of personal information and to prevent that information from being inappropriately disclosed and they require that we abide by such laws and regulations in performing our services for them. We have developed and maintain technical and operational safeguards including encryption, authentication technology and transmission of data over private networks in order to effect secure transmissions of confidential information over computer systems and the Internet. In addition, ADP, as our data center services provider, has information security safeguards in place. However, despite those safeguards, it is possible that hackers, employees acting contrary to security policies or others could improperly access our systems or improperly obtain or disclose the personal or account information of our clients’ customers. Any breach of our security policies or safeguards, or those of our outsourced data center services provider, resulting in the unauthorized use or disclosure of the personal or account information of our clients’ customers could limit our ability to provide services, hinder the growth of our business and subject us to litigation or damage our reputation. In addition, we may incur significant costs to protect against the threat of network or Internet security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. We have combined our primary data center with ADP’s data center from whom we purchase a significant portion of our data center services, including disaster recovery capabilities, and if ADP fails to adequately perform the data center services in the manner necessary to meet our clients’ needs, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. In July 2006, we combined our primary data center with ADP’s data center. In connection with our separation from ADP, we entered into a multi-year data center outsourcing services agreement with ADP pursuant to which ADP provides us with data center services consistent with the services provided to us immediately prior to the spin-off, provided that the operation of the data center is the sole responsibility of ADP. The services include hosting the mainframe, midrange, open systems, and networks. Additionally, systems engineering, network engineering, hardware engineering, network operations, data center operations, application change management, and data center disaster recovery services are managed by ADP. As a result, we currently purchase a significant portion of our data center services, including disaster recovery capabilities, from ADP. ADP has not ordinarily provided outsourced data center services. If ADP fails to adequately perform the data center services in the manner necessary to meet our clients’ needs, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. If our agreement with ADP is terminated for any reason, we may not be able to find an alternative data center services provider in a timely manner or on acceptable financial terms. If we need to build our -20- Table of Contents own information technology infrastructure, we may incur substantial costs and could experience temporary business interruptions. As a result, we may not be able to meet the demands of our clients and, in turn, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. In addition, technology service failures could have adverse regulatory consequences for our Clearing and Outsourcing Solutions business. Some of these risks are anticipated and covered through service level credits, termination rights, and indemnification clauses in our data center outsourcing services agreement with ADP. Nevertheless, we may not be adequately protected against all possible losses through the terms of the agreement. Any slowdown or failure of our computer or communications systems or those of our outsourced data center services provider could subject us to liability for losses suffered by our clients or their customers. Our services depend on our ability to store, retrieve, process and manage significant databases, and to receive and process transactions and investor communications through a variety of electronic systems and media. Our systems, those of our outsourced data center services provider, or any other systems with which ours interact could slow down significantly or fail for a variety of reasons, including: • computer viruses or undetected errors in internal software programs or computer systems; • inability to rapidly monitor all system activity; • inability to effectively resolve any errors in internal software programs or computer systems once they are detected; • heavy stress placed on systems during peak times; or • power or telecommunications failure, fire, flood or any other natural disaster. While we monitor system loads and performance and implement system upgrades to handle predicted increases in trading volume and volatility, we cannot assure you that we will be able to predict future volume increases or volatility accurately or that our systems and those of ADP, as our data center services provider, will be able to accommodate these volume increases or volatility without failure or degradation. Moreover, because we have outsourced our data center operations, the operation and performance of the data center involve factors beyond our control. Any significant degradation or failure of our computer systems, communications systems or any other systems in the clearing or trading processes could cause the customers of our clients to suffer delays in the execution of their trades. These delays could cause substantial losses for our clients or their customers and could subject us to claims and losses, including litigation claiming fraud or negligence that could damage our reputation, increase our service costs, cause us to lose revenues and/or divert our technical resources. If the operational systems and infrastructure that we depend on fail to keep pace with our growth, we may experience operating inefficiencies, client dissatisfaction and lost revenue opportunities. The growth of our business and expansion of our client base may place a strain on our management and operations. We believe that our current and anticipated future growth will require the implementation of new and enhanced communications and information systems, the training of personnel to operate these systems and the expansion and upgrade of core technologies. While many of our systems are designed to accommodate additional growth without redesign or replacement, we may nevertheless need to make significant investments in additional hardware and software to accommodate growth. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to predict the timing or rate of this growth accurately or expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure on a timely basis. Because we utilize the systems of our outsourced data center, we will depend on ADP to keep the processing capacity and speed of the data center in line with the growth of our business. In addition, with respect to our Clearing and Outsourcing Solutions business, the scope of procedures for assuring compliance with applicable rules and regulations has changed as the size and complexity of our business has increased. We have implemented and continue to implement formal compliance procedures to respond to these changes. The future operating results of our Clearing and Outsourcing Solutions business will depend on our ability: • to improve our systems for operations, financial controls, and communication and information management; -21- Table of Contents • to refine our compliance procedures and enhance our compliance oversight; and • to recruit, train, manage and retain our employees. Our growth has required and will continue to require increased investments in management personnel and systems, financial systems and controls and office facilities. In the absence of continued revenue growth, the costs associated with these investments would cause our operating margins to decline from current levels. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage or continue to manage our recent or future growth successfully. If we fail to manage our growth, we may experience operating inefficiencies, dissatisfaction among our client base and lost revenue opportunities. If we are unable to respond to the demands of our existing and new clients, our ability to reach our revenue goals or maintain our profitability could be diminished. The global securities industry is characterized by increasingly complex infrastructures and products, new and changing business models and rapid technological changes. Our clients’ needs and demands for our products and services evolve with these changes. For example, an increasing number of our clients are from market segments focusing on hedge funds, algorithmic trades and direct access customers who demand increasingly sophisticated products. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to respond to our clients’ demands for new services, capabilities and technologies on a timely and cost-effective basis, to adapt to technological advancements and changing standards and to address our clients’ increasingly sophisticated requirements. Intense competition could negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our market share and profitability. The market for our products and services is rapidly evolving and highly competitive. We compete with a number of firms that provide similar products and services to our market. In addition, we compete with our clients’ in-house capabilities to perform competitive functions. Some of our competitors may possess significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. Some of our competitors may also offer a wider range of services than we do and may enjoy greater name recognition and more extensive client bases than ours. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, technologies and client requirements and may be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities, offer more attractive terms to clients and adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we will be able to offer or adopt. There can be no assurances that we will be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors. If we fail to compete effectively, our market share could decrease and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. We may be unable to attract and retain key personnel. Our continued success depends on our ability to attract and retain senior management and other qualified personnel to conduct our Investor Communication Solutions, Securities Processing Solutions, and Clearing and Outsourcing Solutions businesses. The market for such specialists is extremely competitive and has grown more so recently due to industry growth. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified individuals or our recruiting and retention costs increase significantly, our operations and financial results could be materially adversely affected. Our products and services, and the products and services provided to us by third parties, may infringe upon intellectual property rights of third parties, and any infringement claims could require us to incur substantial costs, distract our management or prevent us from conducting our business. Although we attempt to avoid infringing upon known proprietary rights of third parties, we are subject to the risk of claims alleging infringement of third-party proprietary rights. If we infringe upon the rights of third parties, we may be unable to obtain licenses to use those rights on commercially reasonable terms. Additionally, -22- Table of Contents third parties that provide us with products and services that are integral to the conduct of our business may be subject to similar allegations, which could prevent them from continuing to provide these products and services to us. In either of these events, we would need to undertake substantial reengineering in order to continue offering our services and we may not succeed in doing so. In addition, any claim of infringement could cause us to incur substantial costs defending the claim, even if the claim is invalid, and could distract our management from our business. Furthermore, a party making such a claim could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages. A judgment could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from conducting our business. Acquisitions and integrating such acquisitions create certain risks and may affect operating results. From time to time, we have been, and expect to continue to be, a business acquiror. The acquisition and integration of businesses involve a number of risks. The core risks are in the areas of: • valuation: negotiating a fair price for the business based on inherently limited due diligence reviews; • integration: managing the complex process of integrating the acquired company’s people, products, technology and other assets so as to realize the projected value of the acquired company and the synergies projected to be realized in connection with the acquisition; and • legacy issues: protecting against actions, claims, regulatory investigations, losses and other liabilities related to predecessor business. Also, the process of integrating these businesses may disrupt our business and divert our resources. These risks may arise for a number of reasons including, for example: • finding suitable businesses to acquire at affordable valuations or on other acceptable terms; • competition for acquisitions from other potential acquirors; • borrowing money from lenders or selling equity or debt securities to the public to finance future acquisitions on terms that may be adverse to us; • incurring unforeseen obligations or liabilities in connection with such acquisitions; • devoting unanticipated financial and management resources to an acquired business; • entering markets where we have minimal prior experience; and • experiencing decreases in earnings as a result of non-cash impairment charges. In addition, international acquisitions often involve additional or increased risks including, for example: • geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities; • integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; • complying with foreign regulatory requirements; • enforcing intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; and • general economic and political conditions. -23- Table of Contents General economic and political conditions and broad trends in business and finance that are beyond our control may contribute to reduced levels of activity in the securities markets, which could result in lower revenues from our business operations. Trading volume, market prices and liquidity are affected by general national and international economic and political conditions and broad trends in business and finance that result in changes in volume and price levels of securities transactions. These factors include: • economic, political and market conditions; • the availability of short-term and long-term funding and capital; • the level and volatility of interest rates; • legislative and regulatory changes; • currency values and inflation; and • national, state and local taxation levels affecting securities transactions. These factors are beyond our control and may contribute to reduced levels of activity in the securities markets. Our revenue has historically been largely driven by the volume of trading activities of our clients. Our margin lending revenues are also impacted by changes in the trading activities of our correspondents. Accordingly, any significant reduction in activity in the securities markets would likely result in lower revenues from our business operations. The financial services business is highly dependent on certain market centers that may be targets of terrorism. Our business is dependent on exchanges and market centers being able to process trades. Terrorist activities in September 2001 caused the U.S. securities markets to close for four days. This impacted our revenue and profitability for that period of time. If future terrorist incidents cause interruption of market activity, our revenues and profits may be impacted negatively again. Our revenue is subject to seasonal variations because we process and distribute the greatest number of proxy materials and annual reports in our fourth fiscal quarter. Processing and distributing proxy materials and annual reports to investors in equity securities and mutual funds comprises a large portion of our Investor Communication Solutions business. We process and distribute the greatest number of proxy materials and annual reports during our fourth fiscal quarter. The recurring periodic activity of this business is linked to significant filing deadlines imposed by law on public reporting companies and mutual funds. Historically this has caused our revenue, operating income, net income and cash flows from operating activities to be higher in our fourth fiscal quarter than in any other quarter. The seasonality of our revenue makes it difficult to estimate future operating results based on the results of any specific quarter and could affect an investor’s ability to compare our financial condition and results of operations on a quarter-by-quarter basis. Risks Relating to Our Clearing and Outsourcing Solutions Business Our existing clearing correspondents may choose to perform their own securities clearing services as their operations grow. We market our securities clearing services to our existing correspondent clients on the strength of our ability to process transactions and perform related back-office functions more effectively than these clients could -24- Table of Contents perform these functions themselves. As our correspondent clients’ operations grow, they often consider the option of performing securities clearing functions themselves, in a process referred to in the securities industry as “self-clearing.” As the transaction volume of a broker-dealer grows, the cost of implementing the necessary infrastructure for self-clearing may be eventually offset by the elimination of per-transaction processing fees that would otherwise be paid to a clearing firm. Additionally, performing their own securities clearing services allows self-clearing broker-dealers to retain their customers’ margin balances, free credit balances and securities for use in margin lending activities. If a significant number of clearing correspondents or correspondents representing a significant portion of our business terminate their clearing relationship with us to become self-clearing, this could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have tried to address this potential client loss by offering our operations outsourcing service, which affords firms an ability to remain or become self-clearing without the necessity of maintaining this infrastructure. However, some firms may nevertheless choose to change to self-clearing operations and not outsource their operations to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our securities clearing business may be exposed to risk from our counterparties and third parties. In the normal course of business, our securities clearing activities involve execution, settlement and financing of various security clearing transactions for a nationwide client base. With these activities, we may be exposed to risk in the event our clients, other broker-dealers, banks, clearing organizations or depositories are unable to fulfill contractual obligations. Our practice of recording security clearing transactions may expose us to off-balance sheet risk of loss. We record clients’ security clearing transactions on a settlement date basis, which is generally three business days after trade date. We are therefore exposed to off-balance sheet risk of loss on unsettled transactions in the event clients and other counterparties are unable to fulfill contractual obligations. Our securities clearing business may be subject to liability under our membership agreements with exchanges and clearinghouses. We are a member of numerous exchanges and clearinghouses. Under the membership agreements, members are generally required to guarantee the performance of other members. Additionally, if a member becomes unable to satisfy its obligations to the clearinghouse, other members would be required to meet these shortfalls. To mitigate these performance risks, the exchanges and clearinghouses often require members to post collateral. We may be subject to liability under these arrangements in case of default of a member of those exchanges or clearinghouses. Our securities clearing business’ involvement in options markets subjects us to risks inherent in conducting business in those markets. We clear options contracts on behalf of our correspondents and their customers. Trading in options contracts is generally more highly leveraged than trading in other types of securities. This additional leverage increases the risk associated with trading in options contracts, which in turn raises the risk that a correspondent or customer may not be able to fully repay its creditors, including us, if it experiences losses in its options contract trading business. Our securities clearing and operations outsourcing services could expose us to legal liability for errors in performing clearing or operations outsourcing services and, in connection with our clearing services, for improper activities of our correspondents. Any intentional failure or negligence in properly performing our securities clearing or operations outsourcing services, or any mishandling of funds and securities held by us on behalf of our correspondents and their customers could lead to censures, fines or other sanctions by applicable authorities as well as actions in contract or -25- Table of Contents tort brought by parties who are financially harmed by those failures or mishandlings. Any litigation that arises as a result of our securities clearing or operations outsourcing services could harm our reputation and cause us to incur substantial expenses associated with litigation and damage awards that could exceed our liability insurance by unknown but significant amounts. In the past, clearing firms in the United States have been held liable for failing to take action upon the receipt of customer complaints, failing to know about the suspicious activities of correspondents or their customers under circumstances where they should have known, and even aiding and abetting, or causing, the improper activities of their correspondents. We cannot assure you that our procedures will be sufficient to properly monitor our correspondents under current laws and regulations or that securities industry regulators will not enact more restrictive laws or regulations or change their interpretations of current laws and regulations. If we fail to implement proper procedures or fail to adapt our existing procedures to new or more restrictive regulations, we may be subject to liability that could result in substantial costs to us and distract our management from our business. Our Clearing and Outsourcing Solutions business is subject to complex regulations, the violation of which could expose us to interruptions in our business and monetary liability from regulations, clients, competitors and others. Compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel-intensive. Changes in these laws and regulations may increase materially our direct and indirect compliance and other expenses of doing business. The costs of the compliance requirements we face, and the constraints they impose on our operations, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Legal and regulatory actions are inherent in our businesses and could result in financial losses or harm our businesses. For a further discussion of the regulatory framework in which we operate, see Item 1 of Part I “Business — Regulation” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. All aspects of our Clearing and Outsourcing Solutions business are subject to extensive government regulation which may subject us to disciplinary or other action by regulatory organizations. The securities industry in the United States is subject to extensive regulation under both federal and state laws. In addition to these laws, our clearing and outsourcing services must comply with rules and regulations of the SEC, FINRA, various stock exchanges, state securities commissions and other regulatory bodies charged with safeguarding the integrity of the securities markets and other financial markets and protecting the interests of investors participating in these markets. Broker-dealers are subject to regulations covering all aspects of the securities business, including: • trade practices among broker-dealers; • use and safekeeping of investors’ funds and securities; • capital structure; • margin lending; • record-keeping; and • conduct of directors, officers and employees. -26- Table of Contents Our ability to comply with these regulations depends largely on the establishment and maintenance of an effective compliance system as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance personnel. We could be subject to disciplinary or other actions due to claimed non-compliance with these regulations in the future and even for the claimed non-compliance of our correspondents with such regulations. If a claim of non-compliance is made by a regulatory authority, the efforts of our management could be diverted to responding to such claim and we could be subject to a range of possible consequences, including the payment of fines and the suspension of one or more portions of our business. Additionally, some of our securities clearing services contracts include automatic termination provisions which are triggered in the event we are suspended from any of the national exchanges of which we are a member for failure to comply with the rules or regulations thereof. In addition, because our Clearing and Outsourcing Solutions business is heavily regulated, regulatory approval may be required prior to expansion of our business activities. We may not be able to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for any desired expansion. Even if approvals are obtained, they may impose restrictions on our business and could require us to incur significant compliance costs or adversely affect the development of business activities in affected markets. If our securities clearing business does not maintain the capital levels required by regulations, we may be subject to fines, suspension, revocation of registration or expulsion by regulatory authorities. Our securities clearing business is subject to stringent rules imposed by the SEC, FINRA and various other regulatory agencies which require broker-dealers to maintain specific levels of net capital. Net capital is the net worth of a broker-dealer, less deductions for other types of assets including assets not readily convertible into cash and specified percentages of a broker-dealer’s securities positions. If we fail to maintain the required net capital, we may be subject to suspension or revocation of registration by the SEC and suspension or expulsion by FINRA, which, if not cured, could ultimately lead to the liquidation of our Clearing and Outsourcing Solutions business. If the net capital rules are changed or expanded, or if there is an unusually large charge against the net capital of our Clearing and Outsourcing Solutions business, we might be required to limit or discontinue our securities clearing and margin lending operations that require the intensive use of capital. In addition, our ability to withdraw capital from our Clearing and Outsourcing Solutions business could be restricted, which in turn could limit our ability to pay dividends, repay debt at the parent company level and redeem or purchase shares of our outstanding stock, if necessary. A large operating loss or charge against the net capital of our securities clearing business could impede our ability to expand or even maintain our present volume of business. Procedures and requirements of the USA PATRIOT Act may expose our securities clearing business to significant costs or penalties. As participants in the financial services industry, our securities clearing business is subject to laws and regulations, including the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, which require that we know certain information about our securities clearing services clients and monitor transactions for suspicious financial activities. The cost of complying with the USA PATRIOT Act and related laws and regulations is significant. We may face particular difficulties in identifying our international clients, gathering the required information about them and monitoring their activities. We face risks that our policies, procedures, technology and personnel directed toward complying with the USA PATRIOT Act are insufficient and that we could be subject to significant criminal and civil penalties due to noncompliance. Such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. -27- Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Recent Separation from ADP Our historical financial information prior to our recent separation from ADP is not necessarily representative of the results we would have achieved as a stand-alone company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. Our historical financial information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K does not reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows we would have achieved as a stand-alone company during the periods prior to our recent separation from ADP or that we may achieve in the future. This is primarily a result of the following factors: • our consolidated and combined historical financial results reflect allocations of corporate expenses from ADP, which allocations may be different than the comparable expenses we would have actually incurred as a stand-alone company; • our working capital requirements historically have been satisfied as part of ADP’s corporate-wide cash management policies; • our cost of debt and our capitalization is different as a stand-alone company because our credit rating is lower than ADP’s credit rating; • significant changes have occurred and will continue to occur in our cost structure, management, financing and business operations as a result of our separation from ADP, including the potentially significant costs required for us to establish our new brand and operating infrastructure; and • our separation from ADP and the creation of our new brand may have an adverse effect on our client and other business relationships. For a description of the components of our historical consolidated and combined financial information, see Item 7 of Part II “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Factors Affecting Comparability of Financial Results—Historical ADP Cost Allocations Compared to Broadridge as a Stand-alone Entity.” We have experienced and will continue to experience increased costs as a result of the separation. We have had to replicate certain facilities, systems, infrastructure and personnel to which we no longer have access after our separation from ADP. We also have had to make investments to operate without access to ADP’s operational and administrative infrastructure. These initiatives are costly to implement. Due to the scope and complexity of the underlying projects, the amount of total costs cannot be estimated at this time. ADP performed many important corporate functions for our operations, including information technology support, treasury, accounting, financial reporting, tax administration, human resource administration, procurement and other services. Following the separation, ADP has continued to provide some of these services to us on a short-term, transitional basis, for which we pay ADP fees generally based on the applicable allocable cost of ADP’s services to the brokerage services business prior to the Distribution. For more information regarding the transition arrangements, see Item 1 of Part I “Business—Our Relationship with ADP—Transition Services Agreement.” As we begin to operate these functions independently, if we do not have our own adequate systems and business functions in place, or are unable to obtain them from other providers, we may not be able to operate our business effectively or at comparable costs, and our profitability may decline. Prior to the separation, our business benefited from ADP’s purchasing power when procuring goods and services, including office supplies and equipment, travel services, telecommunications, computer software licenses, insurance and benefits. As a stand-alone company, we may be unable to obtain goods and services at comparable prices or on terms as favorable as those obtained prior to the separation, which could decrease our overall profitability. -28- Table of Contents As part of the separation from ADP, we have incurred debt with external lenders, which subject us to various restrictions and could decrease our profitability. Shortly prior to the separation, we incurred $690.0 million in debt to fund a dividend to ADP pursuant to new senior, unsecured credit facilities consisting of a term loan facility and a revolving credit facility which provide for aggregate maximum borrowings of $940.0 million and an interim revolving credit facility which provides for aggregate maximum borrowings of $250.0 million. Prior to the separation, we borrowed $440.0 million under the term loan facility and $250.0 million under the interim revolving credit facility and used the proceeds to pay the dividend to ADP. In May 2007, we repaid the $250.0 million one-year revolving credit facility with the proceeds of an offering of $250.0 million in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes bearing interest at the rate of 6.125% per annum (the “Senior Notes”) and cash. The one-year revolving credit facility was cancelled upon repayment. As of June 30, 2007, there is $370.0 million of indebtedness outstanding under the term loan facility. We anticipate making additional borrowings under these credit facilities and using the proceeds for working capital and other general corporate purposes. The credit facilities and Senior Notes described above contain customary restrictions, covenants and events of default. The terms of these financing arrangements and any future indebtedness impose various restrictions and covenants on us that could limit our ability to respond to market conditions, provide for capital investment needs or take advantage of business opportunities. In addition, our financing costs are higher than they were when we were a part of ADP. For more detailed discussions of these borrowings and our liquidity, see Item 7 of Part II “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources” and Note 12 “Borrowings” to our Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements under Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may not have sufficient capital generation ability to meet our operating and regulatory capital requirements. As a stand-alone company, we may be required to maintain higher capital ratios than those maintained by ADP to retain our credit ratings. In addition, we will need to cover volatility associated with variations in our operating, risk-based and regulatory capital requirements, including separation costs and contingent exposures such as our indemnification obligation to ADP in connection with the tax allocation agreement we entered into with ADP. See Item 1 of Part I “Business—Regulation” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information regarding the capital requirements of our Clearing and Outsourcing Solutions business. Our business, financial position and results of operations could be harmed by adverse rating actions by credit rating agencies. In connection with our separation from ADP, we incurred long-term debt with an initial investment grade rating and have also issued the Senior Notes with an investment grade rating. If our initial rating is downgraded, or if ratings agencies indicate that a downgrade may occur, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected and perceptions of our financial strength could be damaged. This could adversely affect our relationships with our clients. Also, a downgrade could increase our costs of borrowing money, adversely affecting our business, financial position and results of operations. We have agreed to certain restrictions to preserve the treatment of the Distribution as tax-free to ADP and its stockholders, which will reduce our strategic and operating flexibility. The Internal Revenue Service ruling and opinion from tax counsel confirming the tax-free status of the Distribution relied on certain representations and undertakings from us, and the tax-free status of the Distribution could be affected if these representations and undertakings are not correct or are violated. If the Distribution fails to qualify for tax-free treatment, it will be treated as a taxable dividend to ADP stockholders in an amount equal to the fair market value of our stock issued to ADP stockholders. In that event, ADP would be required to recognize a gain equal to the excess of the sum of the fair market value of our stock on the Distribution date and the amount of cash received in the cash distribution over ADP’s tax basis in our stock. -29- Table of Contents In addition, current tax law generally creates a presumption that the Distribution would be taxable to ADP, but not to its stockholders, if we or our stockholders were to engage in a transaction that would result in a 50% or greater change by vote or by value in our stock ownership during the two-year period beginning on the Distribution date, unless it is established that the Distribution and the transaction are not part of a plan or series of related transactions to effect such a change in ownership. In the case of such a 50% or greater change in our stock ownership, tax imposed on ADP in respect of the Distribution would be based on the fair market value of our stock on the Distribution date over ADP’s tax basis in our stock. Under the tax allocation agreement that we entered into with ADP, we are generally prohibited, except in specified circumstances, for specified periods of up to 30 months following the Distribution, from • issuing, redeeming or being involved in other significant acquisitions of our equity securities; • transferring significant amounts of our assets; • amending our certificate of incorporation or by-laws; • failing to engage in the active conduct of a trade or business; or • engaging in certain other actions or transactions that could jeopardize the tax-free status of the Distribution. We have agreed to indemnify ADP for taxes and related losses resulting from certain actions that may cause the Distribution to fail to qualify as a tax-free transaction. Under the tax allocation agreement that we entered into with ADP, we agreed generally to indemnify ADP for taxes and related losses it suffers as a result of the Distribution failing to qualify as a tax-free transaction, if the taxes and related losses are attributable to: • direct or indirect acquisitions of our stock or assets (regardless of whether we consent to such acquisitions); • negotiations, understandings, agreements or arrangements in respect of such acquisitions; or • our failure to comply with certain representations and undertakings from us, including the restrictions described in the preceding risk factor. See Item 1 of Part I “Our Relationship with ADP—Tax Allocation Agreement” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our indemnity covers both corporate level taxes and related losses imposed on ADP in the event of a 50% or greater change in our stock ownership described in the preceding risk factor, as well as taxes and related losses imposed on both ADP and its stockholders if, due to our representations or undertakings being incorrect or violated, the Distribution is determined to be taxable for other reasons. The indemnification obligation to ADP for taxes due in the event of a 50% or greater change in our stock ownership could be substantial, and it is unlikely that we would have the resources to satisfy it. The cost of compliance or failure to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 may adversely affect our business. As a new reporting company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, we are subject to the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which may result in higher compliance costs and may adversely affect our financial results and our ability to attract and retain qualified members of our Board of Directors or qualified executive officers. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act affects corporate governance, securities disclosure, compliance practices, internal audits, disclosure controls and procedures, and financial reporting and -30- Table of Contents accounting systems. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, for example, requires a company subject to the reporting requirements of the U.S. securities laws to conduct a comprehensive evaluation of its and its consolidated subsidiaries’ internal controls over financial reporting. The failure to comply with Section 404 may result in investors losing confidence in the reliability of our financial statements (which may result in a decrease in the trading price of our common stock), prevent us from providing the required financial information in a timely manner (which could materially and adversely impact our business, our financial condition and the trading price of our common stock), prevent us from otherwise complying with the standards applicable to us as a public company and subject us to adverse regulatory consequences. Our separation from ADP could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain clients and recruit and retain employees. As a division of ADP, we previously marketed our products and services using the “ADP” brand name and logo. We believe the association with ADP provided us with preferred status among our clients and employees due to ADP’s: • globally-recognized brand, which is associated with quality, customer service, trust, integrity and security; • perceived high-quality products and services; and • strong capital base and financial strength. In connection with the separation and Distribution, we changed our corporate name and now operate under a new brand name. Without the ADP brand name, we may not be able to maintain or enjoy comparable name recognition or status under our new brand. Our separation from ADP may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain clients, which could result in the termination of our investor communication, securities processing, and clearing and outsourcing client relationships. The ADP brand and our affiliation with ADP have also been key aspects of our recruitment and retention of our employees. Our separation from ADP could also adversely affect our ability to attract and retain senior management and other key employees. If we are unable to successfully manage the transition of our business to our new brand our revenue and profitability could be adversely affected. We cannot predict the effect that our separation from ADP will have on our clients and our employees. The continued ownership of ADP common stock by our executive officers and some of our directors may create, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest. Because of their current or former positions with ADP, substantially all of our executive officers, including our Executive Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and our President and Chief Operating Officer, and some of our non-employee directors, own ADP common stock. These holdings in ADP common stock may be significant for some of these persons compared to that person’s total assets. Even though our Board of Directors consists of a majority of directors who are independent from both ADP and our company, and our executive officers who were employees of ADP ceased to be employees of ADP upon consummation of the Distribution, ownership of ADP common stock by our directors and officers after the separation may create, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest when these directors and officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for ADP than they do for us. -31- Table of Contents ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 