D. Risk Factors Risks Related To Our Company We are currently dependent on our flagship product, EPIAO. A reduction in revenues of EPIAO would cause our revenues to decline and could materially harm our business. We are largely dependent on sales of our erythropoietin, or EPO, product, which we market under the name of EPIAO. We began marketing and selling EPIAO in 1998, and it has been our top-selling product since 2002. Revenues from sales of EPIAO accounted for 83.1%, 77.3% and 67.3% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. We have continued our efforts to develop EPO products in 2007 and expect that sales of EPIAO will continue to comprise a substantial portion of our revenues in the future. Any reduction in revenues from EPIAO will have a direct negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our EPO franchise and associated revenues could be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including: • increased competition; • new product introductions; • government-imposed pricing constraints; • intellectual property issues; • problems with raw materials supply; • disruptions in manufacturing or distribution; and • newly discovered safety issues. Despite our efforts, we may be unable to develop or acquire new products that would enable us to diversify our business and reduce our dependence on EPIAO products. The commercial success of our products depends upon the degree of market acceptance among the medical community. Failure to attain market acceptance among the medical community would have an adverse impact on our operations and profitability. The commercial success of our products depends upon the degree of market acceptance they achieve among the PRC medical community, particularly physicians and hospitals. Physicians may not prescribe or recommend our products to patients, and procurement departments of hospitals may not purchase our products. The acceptance of any of our products among the medical community will depend upon several factors, including: • the safety and effectiveness of the product; 4 • the effectiveness of our efforts to market our products to hospitals and physicians; • the product’s cost effectiveness; • the product’s perceived advantages and disadvantages relative to competing products or treatments; and • the prevalence and severity of side effects. If our products fail to attain market acceptance among the medical community, our operations and profitability would be adversely affected. The selling prices of our products tend to decline over time. Our success depends on our ability to successfully develop and commercialize additional pharmaceutical products. Our product development efforts may not result in commercially viable products. As is typical in the Chinese pharmaceutical industry, the average selling prices of our products tend to decline significantly over the life of the product. These declines principally result from increased competition and changes in government policies. For example, from 2004 to 2005 the average selling price of Intefen declined by 20%. Also, the recent policies of National Drug Reform Committee, or the NDRC, required that we lower prices on our higher dosage EPIAO, which we had previously sold at a premium. We must therefore constantly identify product candidates that can be developed into cost-effective therapeutic products. We plan to continue to invest in research and development; however, successful product development in our industry is highly uncertain, and relatively few research and development projects produce commercially viable products. If we cannot offset any decline in revenues and margins of our marketed products with new product introductions, our overall results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. Our products face substantial competition. Other companies may discover, develop, acquire or commercialize products before or more successfully than we do. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our products compete with other products or treatments for diseases for which our products may be indicated. EPIAO competes with both existing EPO drugs and potential new drug candidates. In China, EPO drugs are offered by established international companies such as Kirin Brewery Company Limited, or Kirin, and F. Hoffmann-La Roche, Ltd., or Roche, and domestic pharmaceutical companies such as Di’ao Group Chengdu Diao Jiuhong Pharmaceutical Factory. Competitors for interferon alpha-2 drugs include Schering-Plough (Brinny) Co. and Beijing Tri-Prime Genetic Engineering Co., Ltd., and competitors for interleukin-2 include Beijing SL Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and Beijing Four Rings Biopharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Competitors for Tietai Iron Sucrose Supplement include Beijing Novartis Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and Nanjing Hencer Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. In addition, while we believe TPIAO, our newest internally developed protein-based therapeutic product, is the only recombinant human thrombopoietin, or TPO-based therapeutic available in the Chinese market to date, we are aware of another Chinese pharmaceutical company, Shanghai CP Guojian Pharmaceutical Company Limited, or CP Guojian, which we believe may be conducting clinical trials for a TPO-based therapeutic in China. If CP Guojian had obtained the approval for any clinical trials prior to May 2005, the commencement of the monitoring period for TPIAO, CP Guojian may not be prohibited from manufacturing and marketing its TPO product during TPIAO’s monitoring period. Our products may compete against products that have lower prices, superior performance, greater ease of administration or other advantages compared to our products. We do not have patents of any commercial significance covering EPIAO, our legacy products or many of our other product candidates with which to protect these products from direct competition. Our inability to compete effectively could reduce sales or margins, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Certain of our competitors, including biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, market products or are actively engaged in research and development in areas where we have products or where we are developing 5 product candidates or new indications for existing products. In the future, we expect that our products will compete with new drugs currently in development, drugs approved for other indications that may be approved for the same indications as those of our products and drugs approved for other indications that are used off-label. If less invasive or less expensive alternatives to our products are dispensed or prescribed to patients, our sales could be adversely affected. An increasing number of foreign pharmaceutical companies have also introduced their pharmaceutical products into the Chinese market. As we expand our product portfolio by adding new products and indications, as well as developing second-generation versions of existing products with the same or overlapping labels, certain of our products may be used as a substitute for our other products in the same end markets. For instance, although EPIAO and TPIAO are targeted toward patients with different indications and TPIAO is not intended to replace EPIAO in the oncology market, some doctors may prescribe TPIAO for their patients when they would have otherwise prescribed EPIAO. Consequently, the introduction of TPIAO may adversely affect sales of EPIAO. Large Chinese state-owned and privately-owned pharmaceutical companies and foreign pharmaceutical companies may have greater clinical, research, regulatory, manufacturing, marketing, financial and human resources than we do. In addition, some of our competitors may have technical or competitive advantages over us for the development of technologies and processes. These resources may make it difficult for us to compete with them to successfully discover, develop and market new products and for our current products to compete with new products or new product indications that these competitors may bring to market. There may also be significant consolidation in the pharmaceutical industry among our competitors, alliances may develop among competitors and these alliances may rapidly acquire significant market share. Furthermore, in order to gain market share in China, competitors may significantly increase their advertising expenditures and promotional activities or engage in irrational or predatory pricing behavior. In addition, our competitors may engage in illegal acts, such as bribery. Third parties may actively engage in activities designed to undermine our brand name and product quality or to influence customer confidence in our products. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins and loss of market share, any of which could materially adversely affect our profit margins. We may not be able to compete effectively against current and future competitors. Our competitors may have the ability to manufacture pharmaceutical products substantially similar to ours. Our ability to compete against our competitors is, to a significant extent, dependent upon our ability to distinguish our products from those of our competitors by providing high quality products at reasonable prices that are perceived to be safe and effective by doctors and patients. Many of our competitors may have been in business longer than we have, may have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have and may be better established in our markets. Our competitors in any particular market may also benefit from raw material sources or production facilities that are closer to such markets, which may provide them with competitive advantages in terms of cost and proximity to consumers. We have a monitoring period for TPIAO through May 2010, during which other pharmaceutical companies are prohibited from manufacturing or importing similar drugs, except those whose applications for clinical trials were approved by the SFDA prior to May 2005, the commencement of TPIAO’s monitoring period. Upon expiration of the monitoring period, other manufacturers in China may apply for approval by the SFDA to manufacture such product using similar formulae or production techniques. If other manufacturers introduce the same product or products substantially similar to ours, we will face more competitive pressure in the market and our sales and profit margin may be adversely affected. 6 Our business depends on our Shenyang Sunshine and EPIAO brands, and if we are not able to maintain and enhance our brands to maintain our competitive advantage, our reputation, business and operating results may be harmed. We believe that market awareness of our Shenyang Sunshine and EPIAO brands has contributed significantly to the success of our business. We also believe that maintaining and enhancing the Shenyang Sunshine and EPIAO brands is critical to maintaining our competitive advantage. In order to further penetrate our markets and launch new products, we must expand our manufacturing and sales and marketing efforts. Maintaining quality and cost-effectiveness may be more difficult to achieve. While our sales and marketing staff will continue to further promote our brand to remain competitive, we may not be successful. If we are unable to further enhance our brand recognition and increase awareness of our products, or if we incur excessive marketing and promotion expenses, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Certain of our raw materials, medical devices and components are single-sourced from third parties; third-party supply failures could adversely affect our ability to supply our products. Certain raw materials necessary for commercial manufacturing and formulation of our products are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. Also, certain medical devices and components necessary for formulation, fill, and finish of our products are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers, including the EPO Elisa Kit by R&D Systems Inc., GIBCO cell culture medium by Invitrogen Inc., Pharmacia EPO chromatography purification medium by GE Healthcare, a division of GE, and Disc, a microcarrier for cell cultures, by New Brunswick Scientific Inc. For more details, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Manufacturing.” Certain of these raw materials, medical devices and components are the proprietary products of these unaffiliated third-party suppliers. We would be unable to obtain these raw materials, medical devices or components for an indeterminate period of time if these third-party single-source suppliers were to cease or interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply these materials or products to us for any reason, including due to regulatory requirements or action, due to adverse financial developments at or affecting the supplier, and/or due to unexpected demand, labor shortages or disputes. We would also be unable to obtain these materials, devices and components for an indeterminate period of time if such supply was subsequently found to not be in compliance with our quality standards or resulted in quality failures or product contamination and/or recall when used to manufacture, formulate, fill or finish our products. These events could adversely affect our ability to satisfy demand for our products, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales and operating results. For example, we have occasionally experienced shortages in certain components necessary for the formulation, fill and finish of certain of our products in our Shenyang facility without impact on our ability to supply these products. However, we may experience shortages in the future resulting in delayed shipments, supply constraints, stock-outs and/or recalls of our products, which could result in interruptions to our production. We depend on our distributors for sales of our products. We rely on our network of approximately 150 distributors to distribute our own and our in-licensed products. Our distributors do not sell our products on an exclusive basis. As a result, our products face competition from similar products sold by our distributors. Our success will depend in part on our ability to form relationships with and manage an increasing number of distributors. If our distribution network in China suffers a disruption, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. 7 While we have long-standing business relationships with most of our distributors and we have not, in the past three years, lost any significant distributors, we do not have long-term contracts with any distributor. Moreover, a significant amount of our revenue is generated by product sales to relatively few distributors, whose mix changes from year to year. The tables below set forth the aggregate sales to our top five distributors, expressed in RMB and as a percentage of our total sales, for the periods indicated. For the year endedDecember 31, 2005 Sales to top five distributors Sales revenue % of salesrevenues (RMB inthousands) Beijing Tianxingpuxin Bio-Med Co., Ltd. 13,333 13 % Shanghai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. 8,867 9 % Shanghai Siful Medicine Co., Ltd. 4,831 5 % Nanjing Medical Co., Ltd. 4,359 4 % Guangdong Xiaoqiling Pharmacy Co., Ltd. 4,308 4 % Total 35,698 35 % For the year endedDecember 31, 2006 Sales to top five distributors Sales revenue % of salesrevenues (RMB inthousands) Beijing Tianxingpuxin Bio-Med Co., Ltd. 15,212 12 % Shanghai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. 10,466 8 % Sinopharm Medicine Holding Guangzhou Co., Ltd. 10,385 8 % Shanghai Siful Medicine Co., Ltd. 8,647 7 % Nanjing Medical Co., Ltd. 5,621 4 % Total 50,331 39 % For the year endedDecember 31, 2007 Sales to top five distributors Sales revenue % of salesrevenues (RMB inthousands) Beijing Tianxingpuxin Bio-Med Co., Ltd. 17,931 10 % Sinopharm Medicine Holding Guangzhou Co., Ltd. 16,524 9 % Shanghai Siful Medicine Co., Ltd. 12,090 7 % Shanghai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. 9,079 5 % Nanjing Medical Co., Ltd. 8,542 5 % Total 64,166 36 % If any one of these distributors were to voluntarily or involuntarily suspend or terminate product purchases from us, we would need to divert product sales to other distributors, which could cause short-term disruptions to our revenues and profitability. If we fail to achieve specified sales goals with respect to an in-licensed product, the license agreement relating to that product may be terminated and our results of operations may suffer. We have recently begun to distribute third-party products pursuant to in-licensing agreements with domestic pharmaceutical corporations. For example, we currently in-license Tietai Iron Sucrose Supplement and Baolijin, 8 a granulocyte colony-stimulating factor. If we fail to achieve certain sales targets, our licensing agreement in relation to Tietai Iron Sucrose Supplement with Shenyang Borui Pharmaceutical Company Limited and Baolijin with Chengdu Institute of Biological Products will become terminable on short notice. Given these risks, there is substantial uncertainty regarding the success of our current and future collaborative efforts. We are highly dependent on senior management and key research and development personnel. We are highly dependent on our senior management to manage our business and operations and our key research and development personnel for the development of new technologies and applications and the enhancement of our existing products. In particular, we rely substantially on our chief executive officer, Dr. Jing Lou, to manage our operations. We also depend on our key research personnel such as Ms. Dongmei Su, our chief technology officer. In addition, we also rely on sales personnel, and other personnel with industry knowledge, to market and sell our products. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our senior management or key personnel. The loss of any one of them, in particular Dr. Lou, would have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Although Dr. Lou and Ms. Su have each signed a non-competition agreement with us, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully enforce these provisions in the event of a dispute. Competition for senior management and research and development personnel is intense, and the pool of suitable candidates is limited. We may be unable to locate a suitable replacement for any senior management or key research and development personnel that we lose. We compete for qualified personnel with other pharmaceutical companies, universities and research institutions. Intense competition for these personnel could cause our compensation costs to increase significantly, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our future success and ability to grow our business will depend in part on the continued service of these individuals and our ability to identify, hire and retain additional qualified personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, we may be unable to meet our business and financial goals. Our future capital needs are uncertain. As a result, we may need to raise additional funds in the future. We may require additional cash resources in the future. Our future cash needs will depend upon: • the extent to which our products are accepted in the market and generate cash flows; • the resources we devote to developing, marketing and producing our products; • the receipt of, and the time and expenses required to obtain and maintain, regulatory clearances and approvals; • our ability to identify and our desire or need to pursue acquisitions or other investments; and • changed business conditions or other future developments. Our revenues may not be sufficient to meet our operational needs and capital requirements, and needed financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our future capital needs and other business reasons could require us to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity or equity-linked securities could result in dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations or our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Moreover, credit arrangements in the PRC are subject to government restrictions and may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We may not achieve our projected development goals in the time frames we announce and expect. We set goals for, and made disclosures in this annual report regarding, timing of the accomplishment of objectives material to our success, such as the commencement and completion of clinical trials, anticipated 9 regulatory submission and approval dates and timing of product launches. As a public company listed in the United States, we make additional announcements in our public reports and in press releases regarding these events, from time to time. The actual timing of these events can vary dramatically due to factors beyond our control, such as delays or failures in our clinical trials, the uncertainties inherent in the regulatory approval process and delays in achieving manufacturing or marketing arrangements sufficient to commercialize our products. There can be no assurance that our clinical trials will be completed, that we will make regulatory submissions or receive regulatory approvals as planned or that we will be able to adhere to our current schedule for the launch of any of our products. If we fail to achieve one or more of these milestones as planned, the price of our shares could decline. If we are unable to protect our products through intellectual property rights, our competitors may compete directly against us. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our products from competition by establishing, maintaining and enforcing intellectual property rights. We try to protect the products and technology that we consider important to our business by filing PRC patent applications, relying on trade secrets or pharmaceutical regulatory protection or employing a combination of these methods. We do not have any patent protection of commercial significance relating to EPIAO. We have patents and patent applications relating to TPIAO and certain of our other products, product candidates and technologies. For more details, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Intellectual Property.” However, the process of seeking patent protection in the PRC can be lengthy and expensive, and we cannot assure you that these patent applications, or any patent applications we may make in the future in respect of other products, will result in patents being issued, or that any patents issued in the future will be able to provide us with meaningful protection or commercial advantage. Our patent applications may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented in the future. For more details on the process for applying for and obtaining intellectual property protection in the PRC, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulations—PRC patent law” and “—Trademark.” In addition to patents, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how to protect our intellectual property. We have entered into confidentiality agreements with many of our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and other advisors. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our proprietary information. In addition, it is possible that third parties could independently develop proprietary information and techniques substantially similar to ours or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. We may become involved in patent litigation against third parties to enforce our patent rights, to invalidate patents held by such third parties, or to defend against such claims. The cost to us of any patent litigation or similar proceeding could be substantial, and it may absorb significant management time. We do not maintain insurance to cover intellectual property infringement. Intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries, due to, among other reasons, lack of procedural rules for discovery and evidence, low damage awards and lack of judicial independence. Implementation and enforcement of PRC intellectual property-related laws have historically been deficient and ineffective and may be hampered by corruption and local protectionism. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive, and we might need to resort to litigation to enforce or defend patents issued to us or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of our proprietary rights or those of others. The experience and capabilities of PRC courts in handling intellectual property litigation varies, and outcomes are unpredictable. Further, such litigation may require significant expenditure of cash and management efforts and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. An adverse determination in any such litigation could materially impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects and reputation. 10 We depend on administrative protection and monitoring periods for certain of our products, which afford us less protection than patents. Prior to the 1990s, Chinese pharmaceutical companies were not capable of producing innovative drugs due to financial and technical obstacles. Under China’s first patent law enacted in March 1984, drugs were not eligible for patent protection. This law, however, provided patent protection for the manufacturing methods of pharmaceuticals. The Drug Administration Law of 1984 specified that pharmaceutical products that had never been manufactured in China were classified as new drugs, and allowed Chinese pharmaceutical companies to produce drugs that are similar in structure and function to foreign drugs so long as the foreign drugs had not been manufactured inside China. To further protect the domestic pharmaceutical industry, in 1999 the SFDA’s predecessor, the State Drug Administration, issued the Regulation on New Drug Protection and Related Technology Transfer, or the 1999 Regulations, which provided a six to twelve year administrative protection period for five categories of new drugs. In December 2002, the 1999 Regulations were replaced by the Administrative Measures on the Registration of Pharmaceutical Products, or the 2002 Regulations, which were later revised in February 2005. According to the 2002 Regulations, with a view to protecting public health, the SFDA may provide for administrative monitoring periods of up to five years for new drugs approved to be manufactured, to continually monitor the safety of those new drugs. The key element in determining the availability and duration of the monitoring period is the safety of the new drug. The SFDA will consider, among other things, whether the new drug has been previously launched domestically or overseas, what type of new drug it is and what process and technology are involved in the production of the new drug. For example, for a biochemical product that has never been launched domestically or overseas, a five-year monitoring period will be granted; for a biochemical product that has been launched overseas but not domestically, only a four-year monitoring period will be granted. We have administrative protection for TPIAO through 2010 under a five-year monitoring period pursuant to the 2002 Regulations, during which other pharmaceutical companies are prohibited from manufacturing or importing similar drugs, except those whose applications for clinical trials were approved by the SFDA prior to May 2005, the commencement of TPIAO’s monitoring period. For a detailed discussion of the mechanism for administrative protection under the relevant Chinese regulations, please refer to “Item 4. Information on Our Company—B. Business Overview—Regulations—Administrative protection and monitoring periods for new drugs.” The period of administrative protection under these Chinese pharmaceutical regulations is considerably shorter than the exclusivity period afforded by patent protection, which, in the case of invention patents, may last up to 20 years from the national filing date of the patent directed to the product, its use or method of manufacture. Once the monitoring period expires, all third parties will be free to compete with us, unless we can exclude them from the market through patents or other intellectual property rights. In addition, the administrative protection for EPIAO in relation to the indication of anemia associated with chemotherapy in cancer patients with non-myeloid malignancies cannot always prevent off label use of other EPO drugs for this indication. If physicians substitute similar or less expensive drugs for EPIAO, our revenues and financial condition will be adversely affected. In addition, the PRC government has in the past, and may in the future, change the duration of the monitoring period. If this occurs, we may lose the administrative protection for our new products or the protection period may be shortened, and we may lose advantage over our competitors with respect to our new products. If our products infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, we may incur substantial liabilities, and we may be unable to sell these products. Our commercial success depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. Under the PRC Patent Law promulgated by the People’s Congress in March 1984 and later revised in September 1992 and August 2000, patent applications are maintained in 11 confidence until their publication 18 months from the filing date. The publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature frequently occurs substantially later than the date on which the underlying discoveries were made and patent applications are filed. China adopts the first-to-file system under which whoever first files a patent application (instead of the one who makes first actual discoveries) will be awarded the patent. By contrast, the United States patent law endorses the first-to-invent system under which whoever makes the first actual discovery will be awarded the patent. Under the first-to-file system, even after reasonable investigation we may not know with certainty whether we have infringed a third party’s patent because such third party may have filed a patent application without our knowledge while we are still developing that product. We are aware of intellectual property rights held by third parties that relate to products or technologies we are developing. For example, we are aware of a patent held by a third party that may relate to our TPIAO product. We believe, as to each claim in this patent, that we either do not infringe the claim of the patent or that the claim is invalid. While the validity of issued patents, patentability of pending patent applications and applicability of any of them to our programs are uncertain, if asserted against us, any related patent rights could adversely affect our ability to commercialize our products. If a third party claims that we infringe its proprietary rights, any of the following may occur: • we may become involved in time-consuming and expensive litigation, even if the claim is without merit; • we may become liable for substantial damages for past infringement if a court decides that our technology infringes a third party’s patent; • a court may prohibit us from selling or licensing our product without a license from the patent holder, which may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all, or which may require us to pay substantial royalties or grant cross licenses to our patents; and • we may have to reformulate our product so that it does not infringe patent rights of others, which may not be possible or could be very expensive and time-consuming. Although to date we have not experienced any of the circumstances listed above, if any of these events occurs, our business will be adversely affected and the market price of our American depositary shares, or ADSs, could decline. Failure to implement our growth and expansion strategy could result in deterioration in our results of operations and financial condition. In order to achieve our internal forecasts, we must successfully implement our growth and expansion strategy. To do so, we must: • expand our capacity by further process optimization and new facility construction; • continue our research and development efforts to introduce new and more advanced products; • promote domestic marketing and sales development and growth; • expand the number, and enhance the expertise in U.S. GAAP financial reporting, of our finance staff; • implement our strategy to bifurcate our sales force in the nephrology and oncology areas; • maintain and further improve our manufacturing process and proprietary technologies to manufacture products with high quality and competitive prices; and • integrate any new businesses, technologies and products that we acquire by way of in-licensing, acquisitions or investments into our operations. If we do not successfully implement this strategy, we may not be able to maintain our growth in revenues and profitability, and the market price for our ADSs will suffer. 12 We have grown steadily since our establishment in 1993. This expansion presented, and our anticipated growth in the future will continue to present, a significant challenge to our management and administrative systems and resources. If we do not adequately manage this challenge, our results of operations and financial condition could suffer. We are building European Medicines Agency, or EMEA, and Chinese current Good Manufacturing Practice, or GMP, compliant manufacturing facilities in Shenyang to take advantage of the market opportunity we believe exists in Europe and other selected regulated markets for new versions of biopharmaceutical products whose patents have expired (known as biosimilar products). Similar to the US FDA, the EMEA is a European agency for the evaluation of medicinal products. GMP refers to guidelines and regulations issued from time to time pursuant to PRC laws as part of quality assurance to ensure that products subject to those guidelines and regulations are consistently produced and controlled to the quality and standards appropriate for their intended use. Substantial capital and management resources will be required in order to complete the construction of the manufacturing facilities on time, secure regional partnerships, seek regulatory approvals and promote our brand. We may be unable to successfully execute the expansion plan due to a delay in obtaining a GMP certificate for our new manufacturing facilities, inability to obtain suitable partners to assist us with our expansion plans, changing competitive dynamics of the European biosimilar market or inability to obtain approvals for selling our products in Europe. As a result, our profitability may be adversely affected. Power shortages, natural disasters, terrorist acts or other calamities could disrupt our production and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. EPIAO, TPIAO and our legacy products are produced at our manufacturing facilities in Shenyang. A significant disruption at that facility, even on a short-term basis, could impair our ability to produce and ship products on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Our Shenyang manufacturing operations are vulnerable to interruption and damage from natural and other types of disasters, including earthquake, fire, floods, environmental accidents, power loss, communications failures and similar events. If any disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business at our facilities would be seriously impaired. In addition, the nature of our production and research activities could cause significant delays in our programs and make it difficult for us to recover from a disaster. We do not maintain any insurance other than insurance for some of our properties. Accordingly, unexpected business interruptions resulting from disasters could disrupt our operations and thereby result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. In addition, our production process requires a continuous supply of electricity. We have encountered power shortages twice in the past due to restricted power supply to industrial users during summers when the usage of electricity is high and supply is limited or as a result of damage to the electricity supply network. Because the duration of those power shortages was brief, they had no material impact on our operations. However, interruptions of electricity supply could result in lengthy production shutdowns, increased costs associated with restarting production and the loss of production in progress. Any major suspension or termination of electricity or other unexpected business interruptions could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may experience significant period-to-period quarterly and annual fluctuations in our revenues and operating results, which may result in volatility in our stock price. We typically generate higher levels of revenues during the third and fourth quarters of the year, primarily because of the tendency of hospitals to place more orders prior to the year-end holiday season and the fact that more people visit hospitals in the second half of the year, resulting in more prescriptions by physicians during this period. We may in the future experience significant period-to-period fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. Our revenues and operating results in some quarters may fall below the estimates of securities 13 research analysts, which may cause the value of our ordinary shares and ADSs to decline. Our quarterly and annual operating results are affected by a number of factors, such as: • seasonal spending patterns of Chinese consumers, including hospitals, dialysis centers and clinics; • changes in pricing policies by us, our competitors or the government, an example of which is the one-time downward adjustment by the government of the price ceiling for all interferon products in China in 1999; • the timing and market acceptance of new products and product enhancements by us or our competitors; • the loss of key sales personnel or distributors; • our involvement in litigation; • changes in government policies or regulations; and • a downturn in general economic conditions in China. While certain of the factors identified above, including seasonal spending patterns, changes in pricing policies, market acceptance of new products and changes in government policies, have in the past caused fluctuations in our quarterly financial results, we have not suffered any material and adverse consequences from these fluctuations in the last three years. However, many of these factors are beyond our control, and you should not rely on our results of operations for prior quarters as an indication of our results in any future period. As our revenues vary significantly from quarter to quarter, our business could be difficult to predict and manage and our quarterly results could fall below investor expectations, which could cause our ADS price to decline. We have previously operated as a private Chinese company and have little experience in complying with requirements applicable to public companies in the United States. We have only relatively recently begun to prepare our financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP and continued compliance with these requirements will continue to increase our costs and require additional management resources. Historically, we have primarily prepared unaudited financial statements in accordance with PRC GAAP for the purpose of tax reporting and determining the level of statutory reserves until our initial public offering. As a newly listed company, we have limited resources and a small finance and accounting team. Although we have since invested additional resources and hired additional staff, we expect to continue to encounter substantial difficulty attracting qualified staff with requisite experience due to the high level of competition for experienced financial professionals. In the short term, we are providing training for our current staff with respect to U.S. GAAP. Our training may not be sufficient or effective. We continue to face increased legal, accounting, administrative and other costs and expenses as a public company that we did not incur as a private company. Compliance with the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as other rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, has resulted in a significant initial cost to us as well as an ongoing increase in our legal, audit and financial compliance costs, including costs related to our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act which is described in the following risk factor. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our ADSs. We are subject to the reporting obligations under the United States securities laws, and beginning in this annual report on Form 20-F, we are required by the Securities and Exchange Commission, as directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, to include a report of management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, beginning in the annual report on Form 20-F for the year ending December 31, 2008, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Although our management concluded that our 14 internal controls are effective in this annual report on Form 20-F, our management may not conclude that our internal controls are effective in the future. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal control over our financial reporting is effective, our independent public registered accounting firm may disagree. If our independent public registered accounting firm is not satisfied with our internal control over financial reporting or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, it then may issue an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Any of these possible outcomes could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Expiration of, or changes to, our tax incentives could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. There is also uncertainty associated with the interpretation of new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law The PRC government has provided various incentives to high technology companies in order to encourage development of the high technology industry and investments by foreigners. Such incentives include reduced tax rates and other measures. For example, as a high technology company operating in an approved economic- technological development area, Shenyang Sunshine Pharmaceutical Company Limited, or Shenyang Sunshine, our main PRC operating subsidiary, is entitled to an enterprise income tax rate of 15%, compared to the 25% standard EIT rate under the new enterprise income tax law described below. As a “foreign-invested advanced technology enterprise” certified by the relevant Chinese authorities, Shenyang Sunshine was entitled to a reduced tax rate of 10% for the year ended December 31, 2005. The 10% rate expired after the taxable year ended December 31, 2005 and Shenyang Sunshine’s EIT was 15% for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2007. On March 16, 2007, the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, was enacted. Under the EIT Law, effective January 1, 2008, China adopted a uniform tax rate of 25% for all enterprises (including foreign-invested enterprises) and revoked the then current tax exemption, reduction and preferential treatments applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. However, there is a transition period for enterprises, whether foreign-invested or domestic, that were receiving preferential tax treatments granted by relevant tax authorities at the time the EIT Law became effective. Enterprises that are subject to an enterprise income tax, or EIT, rate lower than 25% may continue to enjoy the lower rate and gradually transition to the new tax rate within five years after the effective date of the EIT Law. Enterprises that are currently entitled to exemptions or reductions from the standard income tax rate for a fixed term may continue to enjoy such treatment until the fixed term expires. Preferential tax treatments will continue to be granted to industries and projects that are strongly supported and encouraged by the state, and enterprises otherwise classified as such “encouraged” high-tech enterprises will be entitled to a 15% EIT rate. On April 14, 2008, the Measures for the Recognition and Administration of New and High-tech Enterprises, or the Measures, were promulgated jointly by the Ministry of Science and Technology, the Ministry of Finance and the State Administration of Taxation and became retroactively effective from January 1, 2008. Under the Measures, the term “high-tech enterprise” is defined as a resident enterprise that has been registered in the PRC (excluding Hong Kong, Macao or Taiwan) for more than one year, conducts business in the new and high-tech fields encouraged by government as listed in an appendix to the Measures, continuously undertakes research and development and technology conversion, and relies on self-owned intellectual property rights as the basis of its business operation. Such new and high-tech enterprises may apply for tax incentives. There is no assurance that Shenyang Sunshine will qualify as a new and high-tech enterprise under the Measures. The EIT Law also provides that enterprises established outside of China whose “de facto management bodies” are located in China are considered “resident enterprises” and will generally be subject to the uniform 25% EIT rate as to their global income, including income they receive from their subsidiaries. Pursuant to the Implementation Rules to the Enterprise Income Tax law promulgated by State Council on December 6, 2007 and became effective on January 1, 2008 or the Implementation Rules, the term “de facto management bodies” is defined as bodies that undertake overall management and control of the production, operation, human resource, finance, property and similar activities of the enterprise in material respects. Despite the Implementation Rules, it is still not entirely clear under what situations an enterprise’s “de facto management body” is considered to be located in China. However, all of our management is currently based in China, and will likely remain in China 15 for the foreseeable future. In addition, although the EIT Law provides that dividend income between “qualified resident enterprises” is exempted income, it is unclear what is considered a “qualified resident enterprise” under the EIT Law. If we are required under the EIT Law to pay income tax for any dividends we receive from our subsidiaries, it will materially and adversely affect the amount of dividends we may pay, if any, to our shareholders and ADS holders. Furthermore, unlike the PRC Income Tax Law for Enterprises with Foreign Investment and Foreign Enterprise (superseded by the EIT Law), which specifically exempted withholding tax on any dividends payable to non-PRC investors, the EIT Law and the Implementation Rules provide that an income tax rate of 10% will normally be applicable to dividends payable to non-PRC investors which are derived from sources within China, although such income tax may be exempted or reduced by the State Council. We are a Cayman Islands holding company and substantially all of our income may come from dividends we receive from our operating subsidiaries located in China. If we declare dividends from such income, it is not clear whether it will be deemed to be derived from sources within China under the EIT Law and be subject to the 10% income tax. If we are required under the EIT Law to withhold income tax on our dividends payable to our non-PRC shareholders and ADS holders, your investment in us may be materially and adversely affected. Our business benefits from certain government incentives. Expiration of, or change to, these incentives could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We have historically received various government grants for our research and development programs. We recorded grant income of RMB3.8 million, RMB3.1 million and RMB1.1 million (US$0.1 million) in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. The grants in 2007 primarily relate to our research and development efforts on EPIAO and TPIAO. Even though we plan to continue to apply for grants and subsidies from the PRC government for our ongoing and future research and development programs, there is no assurance that we will successfully obtain any level of grants and subsidies in future periods. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company for United States federal income tax purposes, which could subject United States investors in the ADSs or ordinary shares to significant adverse tax consequences. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or a PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes. PFIC status is a factual determination made for each taxable year ending December 31, after the close of such year, on the basis of the composition of our income and our “active” versus “passive” assets for such year. Under the PFIC rules, we will generally be classified as a PFIC if, in the case of any particular taxable year, 75% or more of our gross income consists of certain types of “passive income” or 50% or more of the value of our assets consists of “passive assets.” For this purpose, cash and other liquid assets are generally classified as passive and goodwill and other unbooked intangibles may generally be classified as active. The overall level of our passive assets will be significantly affected by the amount and time-frame within which we disperse the cash raised in our initial public offering, and other liquid assets that we presently hold, for the purpose of the capital expenditures described in this annual report. In addition, the overall level of our active assets will depend, in great measure, on the valuation of our goodwill and other unbooked intangibles as implied by our market capitalization which may decline. We do not believe that we are currently a PFIC. However, because the PFIC determination is highly fact intensive and made at the end of each taxable year, there can be no assurance that we will not be a PFIC for the current or any future taxable year or that the Internal Revenue Service will not challenge any determination concerning our PFIC status. If we were to be or become classified as a PFIC, United States investors in our ADSs or ordinary shares may incur a significantly increased United States income tax liability on gain recognized on the sale or other disposition of our ADSs or ordinary shares and on the receipt of distributions on our ADSs or ordinary shares. See the section entitled “Taxation—United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—PFIC Considerations.” 16 Risks Related To Our Industry The pharmaceutical industry in China is highly regulated, and future government regulation may place additional burdens on our business. The pharmaceutical industry in China is subject to extensive government regulation and supervision. The regulatory framework addresses all aspects of operating in the pharmaceutical industry, including approval, production, licensing and certification requirements and procedures, periodic renewal and reassessment processes, registration of new drugs and environmental protection. Violation of applicable laws and regulations may materially adversely affect our business. In order to manufacture pharmaceutical products in China, we are required to apply for and obtain a pharmaceutical manufacturing permit from the provincial level food and drug administrative authority. In addition, in order to manufacture and market any drug in China, we are required to apply for and obtain permits and certificates from the SFDA, including the new drug certificate, drug registration certificate (which includes the issuance of a drug approval number) and GMP certificate. We are required to renew the pharmaceutical manufacturing permits, drug registration certificates and GMP certificates every five years. If we are unable to obtain or renew such permits or certificates or any other regulatory approvals required for our operation, we will not be able to engage in the manufacture of our products and our business may be adversely affected. The regulatory framework regarding the pharmaceutical industry in China is subject to change and amendment from time to time. Any such change or amendment may have an adverse effect on our business. Changes to the regulatory framework could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For further information regarding recent changes in government regulations in China, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulations.” New product development in the pharmaceutical industry is both costly and labor-intensive and has a low rate of successful commercialization. Our success will depend in part on our ability to enhance our existing products and to develop new products. The development process for pharmaceutical products is complex and uncertain, as well as time-consuming and costly. Relatively few research and development programs produce a commercial product. A product candidate that appears promising in the early phases of development may fail to reach the market for a number of reasons, such as: • the failure to demonstrate safety and efficacy in preclinical and clinical trials; • the failure to obtain approvals for intended use from relevant regulatory bodies, such as the SFDA; • our inability to manufacture and commercialize sufficient quantities of the product economically; and • proprietary rights, such as patent rights, held by others to our product candidate and their refusal to sell or license such rights to us on reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, product development requires the accurate assessment of market trends. We cannot assure you that: • our new product research and development efforts will be successfully and timely completed; • the SFDA or other regulatory bodies will grant necessary regulatory clearances or approvals on a timely basis, or at all; or • any product we develop will be commercialized or achieve market acceptance. Delays in any part of the development process or our inability to obtain regulatory approval of our products could adversely affect our operating results by restricting or delaying our introduction of new products. Even if we successfully commercialize new products, these products may address markets that are currently being served 17 by the off-label use of others of our mature products and inadvertently result in a reduction in the sales volume of our mature products or vice versa. Failure to develop, obtain necessary regulatory clearances or approvals for or successfully commercialize or market potential new products or technologies could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We will not be able to commercialize our product candidates if our preclinical studies do not produce successful results or our clinical trials do not demonstrate safety and efficacy in humans. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the manufacturing and sale of our product candidates, we must conduct, at our own expense, extensive preclinical tests and clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy in humans of our product candidates. Preclinical and clinical testing is expensive, difficult to design and implement, can take many years to complete and is uncertain as to outcome. Success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and interim results of a clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results. A failure of one or more of our clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, preclinical testing and the clinical trial process that could delay or prevent our ability to receive regulatory approval or commercialize our product candidates, including: • our preclinical tests or clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional preclinical testing or clinical trials, or we may abandon projects that we expect to be promising; • we might have to suspend or terminate our clinical trials if the participating patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; • regulators may require that we hold, suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements or safety concerns; • the time or cost of our clinical trials may be greater than we currently anticipate; • any regulatory approval we ultimately obtain may be limited or subject to restrictions or post-approval commitments that render the product not commercially viable; and • our product candidates may produce undesirable side effects or may have other unexpected characteristics. If we are required to conduct additional clinical trials or other testing of our product candidates beyond those that we currently contemplate, if we are unable to successfully complete our clinical trials or other testing or if the results of these trials or tests are not positive or are only modestly positive, we may: • be delayed in obtaining marketing approval for our product candidates; • not be able to obtain marketing approval; or • obtain approval for indications that are not as broad as intended. Our product development costs will also increase if we experience delays in testing or approvals. We do not know whether planned clinical trials will begin as planned, will need to be restructured or will be completed on schedule, if at all. Significant clinical trial delays also could allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do and impair our ability to commercialize our products or product candidates. Rapid changes in the pharmaceutical industry may render our products obsolete. The pharmaceutical industry is characterized by rapid changes in technology, constant enhancement of industrial know-how and frequent emergence of new products. Future technological improvements and continual product developments in the pharmaceutical market may render our existing products obsolete or affect our viability and competitiveness. Therefore, our future success will largely depend on our ability to: • improve our existing products; 18 • diversify our product portfolio; and • develop new and competitively priced products which meet the requirements of the constantly changing market. If we fail to respond to this environment by improving our existing products or developing new products in a timely fashion, or if our new or improved products do not achieve adequate market acceptance, our business and profitability may be materially and adversely affected. Anti-corruption measures taken by the government to correct corruptive practices in the pharmaceutical industry could adversely affect our sales and reputation. The government has recently taken anti-corruption measures to correct corrupt practices. In the pharmaceutical industry, such practices include, among others, acceptance of kickbacks, bribery or other illegal gains or benefits by the hospitals and medical practitioners from pharmaceutical distributors in connection with the prescription of a certain drug. Substantially all of our sales to our ultimate customers are conducted through third-party distributors. We have no control over our third-party distributors, who may engage in corrupt practices to promote our products. While we maintain strict anti-corruption policies applicable to our internal sales force and third-party distributors, these policies may not be effective. If Liaoning Sunshine Pharmaceutical Company Limited, or Liaoning Sunshine, or any of our third-party distributors engage in such practices and the government takes enforcement action, our products may be seized and our own practices, and involvement in the distributors’ practices, investigated. If this occurs, our sales and reputation may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, government-sponsored anti-corruption campaigns from time to time could have a chilling effect on our efforts to reach new hospital customers. Our sales representatives primarily rely on hospital visits to better educate physicians on our products and promote our brand awareness. Recently, there have been occasions on which our sales representatives were denied access to hospitals in order to avoid the perception of corruption. If this attitude becomes widespread among our potential customers, our ability to promote our products will be adversely affected. We are subject to environmental regulations and may be exposed to liability and potential costs for environmental compliance. We are subject to PRC laws and regulations concerning the discharge of effluent water and solid waste during our manufacturing processes. We are required to obtain clearances and authorizations from government authorities for the treatment and disposal of such discharge. We may not at all times comply fully with environmental regulations. Any violation of these regulations may result in substantial fines, criminal sanctions, revocations of operating permits, shutdown of our facilities and obligation to take corrective measures. Our cost of complying with current and future environmental protection laws and regulations and our liabilities which may potentially arise from the discharge of effluent water and solid waste may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The government may take steps toward the adoption of more stringent environmental regulations. Due to the possibility of unanticipated regulatory or other developments, the amount and timing of future environmental expenditures may vary substantially from those currently anticipated. If there is any unanticipated change in the environmental regulations, we may need to incur substantial capital expenditures to install, replace, upgrade or supplement our pollution control equipment or make operational changes to limit any adverse impact or potential adverse impact on the environment in order to comply with new environmental protection laws and regulations. If such costs become prohibitively expensive, we may be forced to cease certain of our business operations. 19 We may be required to defend lawsuits or pay damages for product liability claims. We do not have any liability or business disruption insurance, and a claim against us, or an interruption in our business, could adversely affect our reputation and our financial results. The development and commercialization of pharmaceutical products entails an inherent risk of harm to the patient and, therefore, product liability. Even though there are no punitive damages under PRC law, if a product liability claim is brought against us, it may, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, result in damage to our reputation, breach of contract with our customers, decreased demand for our products, costly litigation, product recalls, loss of revenue and the inability to commercialize some products. We currently are not aware of any existing or anticipated product liability claims with respect to our products. Existing PRC laws and regulations do not require us to nor do we maintain liability insurance to cover product liability claims. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products. As a result, we do not have business liability, or in particular, product liability or disruption insurance coverage for our operations. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. When and if we attempt to obtain product liability insurance for clinical trials, this insurance may be prohibitively expensive, or may not fully cover our potential liabilities. The ability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of products that we or our collaborators develop. The pricing of all of our products is subject to government approval. Changes in government control on prices of our products may limit our profitability or cause us to stop manufacturing certain products. Pursuant to the implementing rules of the Drug Administration Law, we are required to seek pricing approval for all our products from the NDRC and the price administration bureaus of the relevant provinces of the PRC in which our pharmaceutical products are manufactured. We have in the past been able to successfully obtain pricing-related approvals. In addition, in order to access certain local or provincial-level markets, we enter into government-sponsored competitive bidding processes for EPIAO and our legacy products every year or every other year with a pre-defined price range. In addition, recent NDRC policies required that we lower prices on our higher dosage EPIAO, which we had previously sold at a premium. The competitive bidding in effect sets price ceilings for our products, thereby limiting our profitability. In some instances, if the price range designated by the provincial government falls below production costs, we may stop manufacturing certain products. China’s accession to the World Trade Organization, or WTO, may intensify competition in the pharmaceutical industry in China. China acceded to the WTO in December 2001. Following the accession, China lowered tariffs on certain imported pharmaceutical products as part of its obligation under the WTO framework. The reduction or removal of tariffs on imported pharmaceutical products had made such products more competitive with domestic pharmaceutical products. In addition, an increasing number of foreign-invested pharmaceutical manufacturers may establish operations to engage in the manufacture or distribution of pharmaceutical products in China, which would increase the number of suppliers of pharmaceutical products in the market and intensify the competition with domestic manufacturers. If the domestic pharmaceutical manufacturers are unable to distinguish their products from imported products or products produced domestically by foreign-invested pharmaceutical manufacturers which may be of higher quality and sold at competitive prices, they may lose market share to imported products or products produced domestically by foreign-invested pharmaceutical manufacturers. Furthermore, due to the lack of capital for the research and development of new medicines, most of the domestic pharmaceuticals are imitations of foreign products. Following China’s accession to the WTO, many more companies in Europe and the United States have applied for patents in the PRC, thereby increasing the likelihood of litigation for Chinese domestic pharmaceutical companies. 20 Risks Related To Doing Business In China Adverse changes in political, economic and other policies of the Chinese government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. All of our operations are located in China, and substantially all of our sales are made in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: • the extent of government involvement; • the level of development; • the growth rate; • the control of foreign exchange; • the allocation of resources; • an evolving regulatory system; and • lack of sufficient transparency in the regulatory process. While the Chinese economy has experienced significant growth in the past 20 years, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The Chinese government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures, including potential investments in competing biopharmaceutical companies, may benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may also have an adverse effect on us. Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. Further, any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on overall economic growth and the level of healthcare investments and expenditures in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our businesses. The Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China is still owned by the Chinese government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the Chinese government could materially and adversely affect our business. The Chinese government also exercises significant control over Chinese economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency- denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. One recent example is certain measures implemented by the Chinese government in 2006 to restrict foreign investment and speculation in the real estate sector. Although the government policies have in recent years been encouraging of the growth of the healthcare sector, future attempts by the Chinese government to slow the pace of growth of the healthcare sector or the overall Chinese economy could result in decreased capital expenditure by hospitals, which in turn could reduce demand for our products. Moreover, the political relationship between the United States, Europe, or other Asian nations and China is subject to sudden fluctuation and periodic tension. Changes in political conditions in China and changes in the state of foreign relations are difficult to predict and could adversely affect our operations. This could lead to a decline in our profitability. 21 Future changes in laws, regulations or enforcement policies in China could adversely affect our business. Laws, regulations or enforcement policies in China, including those regulating healthcare and the pharmaceutical industry, are evolving and subject to frequent changes. Further, regulatory agencies in China may periodically, and sometimes abruptly, change their enforcement practices. Therefore, prior enforcement activity, or lack of enforcement activity, is not necessarily predictive of future actions. Any enforcement actions against us could have a material adverse effect on us and the market price of our ADSs. In addition, any litigation or governmental investigation or enforcement proceedings in China may be protracted and may result in substantial cost and diversion of resources and management attention, negative publicity, damage to our reputation and decline in the price of our ADSs. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. We receive all of our revenues in Renminbi, which currently is not a freely convertible currency. A portion of our revenues may be converted into other currencies to meet our foreign currency obligations, including, among others, payment of dividends declared, if any, in respect of our ordinary shares. Under China’s existing foreign exchange regulations, we are able to pay dividends in foreign currencies without prior approval from the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or the SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, the PRC government may take measures to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. Our ability to obtain foreign exchange is subject to significant foreign exchange controls and, in the case of amounts under the capital account, requires the approval of and/or registration with PRC government authorities, including the SAFE. In particular, if Shenyang Sunshine, our wholly-owned PRC subsidiary, takes out foreign currency loans from foreign lenders, it must do so within approved limits that satisfy its approval documentation and PRC debt to equity ratio requirements. Further, such loans must be registered with the SAFE. These limitations could affect the ability of Shenyang Sunshine to obtain capital through offshore debt or equity financing. Our revenues are denominated in Renminbi, which may be subject to exchange rate volatility. Prior to 1994, the Renminbi experienced a significant net devaluation against most major currencies, and there was significant volatility in the market-based exchange rate during certain periods. From 1994 until July 2005, the Renminbi to U.S. dollar exchange rate was largely stable. On July 21, 2005, the People’s Bank of China, or PBOC, announced that the exchange rate of U.S. dollar to Renminbi would be adjusted from US$1.00 to RMB8.27 to US$1.00 to RMB8.11, and it ceased to peg the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Instead, the Renminbi has been pegged since that date to a basket of currencies, which components are adjusted based on changes in market demand and supply under a set of systematic principles. On September 23, 2005, the Chinese government widened the daily trading band for Renminbi against non-US dollar currencies from 1.5% to 3.0% to improve the flexibility of the new foreign exchange system. On May 18, 2007, the Chinese government further widened the daily trading band from 3.0% to 5.0%. The Renminbi may be revalued further against the U.S. dollar or other currencies, or may be permitted to enter into a full or limited free float, which may result in an appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar or other currencies, any of which could give rise to uncertainties in our financial condition and results of operations. Renminbi appreciated for approximately 13.5% against U.S. dollar from January 2, 2007 to June 20, 2008. Any further appreciation of Renminbi may subject us to increased competition from imports, and any devaluation of Renminbi may adversely affect the value of our net assets, earnings and declared dividends in foreign currency terms, as well as our ability to import raw materials and equipment and service our foreign currency obligations. For example, to the extent that we need to convert our U.S. dollars holdings, including the net proceeds from our initial public offering, into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the Renminbi amount we receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs, purchasing equipment and raw materials from overseas, or other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. 22 We face risks related to health epidemics and outbreaks of contagious diseases, including avian influenza and Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of avian influenza, SARS or other epidemics or outbreaks of contagious diseases. There have been recent reports of outbreaks of a highly pathogenic avian influenza, or avian flu, caused by the H5N1 virus in certain regions of Asia and Europe. In recent years, there have been reports on the occurrences of avian flu in various parts of China, including some confirmed human cases. A major outbreak of avian flu in the human population could result in a widespread health crisis that could adversely affect the economies and financial markets of many countries, particularly in Asia. Additionally, a recurrence of SARS, a highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia, similar to the occurrence in 2003 which affected China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore, Vietnam and certain other countries, would also have similar adverse effects. Since all of our operations and substantially all of our customers and suppliers are based in Asia, an outbreak of avian flu, SARS or other contagious diseases in China, other places in Asia or elsewhere, or the perception that such outbreak could occur, and the measures taken by the governments of countries affected, would adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future outbreaks of avian flu, SARS or any other epidemics. Our operations are subject to the uncertainty associated with the legal system in China which could limit the legal protection available to potential investors. We conduct our business through our operating subsidiaries in China, which are governed by PRC law. China is a civil law jurisdiction based on written codes and statutes. Unlike common law jurisdictions, prior court decisions may be cited as persuasive authority but do not have legally binding force. The PRC government has promulgated laws and regulations in relation to economic matters in general, such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade, with a view to establishing a comprehensive legal system conducive to investment activities. However, the implementation, interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations may involve greater uncertainty compared to those in the common law jurisdictions due to a relatively short legislative history, limited volume of court cases and their non-binding nature. Furthermore, many laws, regulations and legal requirements have only recently been adopted by the central or local government agencies, and their implementation, interpretation and enforcement may involve uncertainty due to the lack of established practice available for reference. Depending on the government agency or how an application or a case is presented to such agency, we may receive less favorable interpretations of law than our competitors. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial legal costs and diversion of resources and management attention. Similarly, legal uncertainty in China may limit the legal protection available to our shareholders. We cannot predict the effect of future legal developments in China, including promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national law. As a result, there is substantial uncertainty as to the legal protection available to our shareholders. There may be difficulties in seeking recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments in China. Substantially all of our assets are located in China, and most of our senior management members and directors reside in China. However, China has not entered into treaties or arrangements providing for the recognition and enforcement of judgments made by the courts of the United States or most other jurisdictions. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for investors to effect service of process or enforce court judgments against our PRC subsidiaries, our assets, senior management members or directors in China. Changes in PRC government policy on foreign investment in China may adversely affect our business and results of operations. As a foreign invested enterprise, Shenyang Sunshine is subject to restrictions on foreign investment imposed by PRC law from time to time. For instance, under the Foreign Investment Industrial Guidance Catalogue, some industries are categorized as sectors which are encouraged, restricted or prohibited for foreign investment. 23 According to the latest version of this Catalogue, which became effective on January 1, 2005, our business does not belong to the prohibited or the restricted category. As this Catalogue is updated every few years, there can be no assurance that the PRC government will not change its policies in a manner that would cause part or all of our businesses to fall within the restricted or prohibited categories. If any of our businesses becomes prohibited or if we cannot obtain approval from relevant approval authorities to engage in businesses which become restricted for foreign investors, we may be forced to sell or restructure our businesses which have become restricted or prohibited for foreign investment. If we are forced to adjust our corporate structure or business line as a result of changes in government policy on foreign investment, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our wholly owned subsidiaries to fund any cash and financing requirements we may have, and any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries and affiliated entities to make payments to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We are a holding company, and we rely principally on dividends from our wholly owned subsidiaries in China for our working capital requirements, including any debt we may incur. Current PRC regulations permit our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. In addition, each of our subsidiaries in China is required to set aside at least 10% of its after-tax profits each year, if any, to fund a statutory reserve until such reserve reaches 50% of its registered capital, and each of our subsidiaries may be required to further set aside a portion of its after-tax profits to fund the employee welfare fund at the discretion of the board. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. Furthermore, if our subsidiaries in China incur additional debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may require us to adjust our taxable income under the contractual arrangements we currently have in place in a manner that would materially and adversely affect our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends and other distributions to us. Any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries and affiliated entities to distribute dividends or other payments to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends, or otherwise fund and conduct our business. Risks Related To Our Corporate Structure Our contractual arrangements with Beijing Sunshine Bio-product Sales Company, or Beijing Sunshine, and Liaoning Sunshine and their respective shareholders may not be as effective in providing control over these entities as direct ownership. Each of Beijing Sunshine and Liaoning Sunshine was established in 2000 to engage in the distribution of pharmaceutical products, primarily those which we manufacture. As part of our corporate reorganization prior to our initial public offering in February 2007, we transferred our equity ownership in Liaoning Sunshine to Mr. Dan Lou, our chairman, and our equity ownership in Beijing Sunshine to Ms. Dongmei Su, our chief technology officer, as a result of which we no longer have equity ownership interests in Beijing Sunshine or Liaoning Sunshine. We rely on contractual arrangements to maintain control over the business and operations of these two entities. These contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing control over these entities as direct ownership. For example, either Beijing Sunshine or Liaoning Sunshine could fail to take actions required for our business despite their respective contractual obligation to do so. Substantially all of our sales, including sales of our own and our in-licensed products, are conducted through Liaoning Sunshine, which was the direct contracting party with most of our key distributors. If Liaoning Sunshine or its sole shareholder, Mr. Dan Lou, refuses to make payments or otherwise refuses to perform their contractual obligations necessary for us to realize these sales contracts, our financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. Beginning in January 2007, we started directly contracting with third-party distributors for the sale of the products we manufacture. 24 If Beijing Sunshine, Liaoning Sunshine or their respective shareholders fail to perform under their agreements with us, we may have to rely on legal remedies under PRC law, which may not be effective. In addition, we cannot assure you that the shareholders of either Beijing Sunshine or Liaoning Sunshine will always act in our best interests. We currently conduct certain of our sales activities through Liaoning Sunshine and Beijing Sunshine by means of contractual arrangements. If the PRC government determines that these contractual arrangements do not comply with applicable regulations, our business could be adversely affected. We conduct certain of our sales activities through contractual arrangements with Liaoning Sunshine and Beijing Sunshine, each of which holds the licenses and approvals, including pharmaceutical trading permits, as described in “Item. 4 Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulations—Distribution of pharmaceutical products”, that are essential for the distribution of our own and in-licensed products. We have contractual arrangements with Liaoning Sunshine, Beijing Sunshine and their respective shareholders that allow us to substantially control these entities. These contracts include business cooperation agreements, which impose certain restrictions on the conduct of the Liaoning Sunshine’s and Beijing Sunshine’s businesses. For more details, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—A. History and Development of the Company—Our Contractual Arrangements with Liaoning Sunshine and Beijing Sunshine.” We cannot assure you that we will be able to enforce these contracts. Although we believe we comply with current PRC regulations, we cannot assure you that the PRC government would agree that our arrangements with Liaoning Sunshine and Beijing Sunshine comply with PRC licensing, registration or other regulatory requirements, with existing policies or with requirements or policies that may be adopted in the future. If the PRC government determines that we are not in compliance with applicable law, it could revoke our business and operating licenses, require us to discontinue or restrict our operations, restrict our right to collect revenues, require us to restructure our operations, impose additional conditions or requirements with which we may not be able to comply, impose restrictions on our business operations or take other regulatory or enforcement actions against us that could be harmful to our business. The principal shareholder of Liaoning Sunshine has potential conflicts of interest with us, which may adversely affect our business. Liaoning Sunshine is wholly owned by Mr. Dan Lou, our chairman. While Mr. Dan Lou has a duty of loyalty and care to us under Cayman Islands law, the potential exists for conflicts of interests between his duties to us and his ownership interests in Liaoning Sunshine. In particular, Mr. Lou may be able to cause our agreements with Liaoning Sunshine to be performed or amended in a manner adverse to us by, among other things, failing to remit payments to us on a timely basis or operating Liaoning Sunshine so as to cause harm to our business. We cannot assure you that if potential conflicts of interests arise, these conflicts will not result in a significant loss in corporate opportunities for us or a diversion of our resources to Liaoning Sunshine, which may not be in the best interest of our company and our other shareholders. Liaoning Sunshine and Beijing Sunshine were previously engaged in activities without the necessary approvals. This could subject them to fines and other penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Liaoning Sunshine and Beijing Sunshine were historically engaged in business activities without requisite approvals. For example, in order to distribute pharmaceuticals as a subsidiary or investee of a foreign invested enterprise, Liaoning Sunshine and Beijing Sunshine were required to obtain approval from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Co-operation, or the MOFTEC, which was the predecessor of the Ministry of Commerce, or the MOFCOM. While Liaoning Sunshine and Beijing Sunshine had the proper permits from the SFDA, neither of them obtained this MOFTEC approval. In connection with our reorganization prior to our initial public offering in February 2007, we have disposed of our respective equity ownerships in Liaoning 25 Sunshine and Beijing Sunshine. Beijing Sunshine and Liaoning Sunshine are no longer required to obtain the approval from the MOFCOM, as each of them is a domestic Chinese company that is currently operating within its authorized scope of business. However, the relevant PRC authorities have the authority to impose penalties for their past violations. These authorities may revoke business licenses or the permits granted by the SFDA. Due to the discretionary nature of regulatory enforcements in the PRC, we cannot assure you that Liaoning Sunshine or Beijing Sunshine will not be subject to such type of penalties for its past violations, or that such type of penalties will not have a material adverse effect on our business. We must receive the approval of the MOFCOM before we may purchase the equity interests in Liaoning Sunshine or Beijing Sunshine. We may not receive approval from the MOFCOM for such purchase on a timely basis, or at all. We are party to two purchase agreements, pursuant to which we may acquire 100% of the equity interests in Liaoning Sunshine from Dan Lou, our Chairman, and 100% of the equity interest in Beijing Sunshine from Dongmei Su, our chief technology officer, and Shenyang Keweier Advanced Technology Co., Ltd., or Shenyang Keweier, a company owned by our employees and former employees. For more details, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—A. History and Development of the Company—Our contractual arrangements with Liaoning Sunshine and Beijing Sunshine—Purchase agreements for the acquisition of equity interest in Liaoning Sunshine and Beijing Sunshine.” In order to complete the acquisition of Liaoning Sunshine or Beijing Sunshine, we must obtain the approval of the MOFCOM. While we anticipate filing for approval of the acquisition in the near future, we expect that we will not obtain the approval of the MOFCOM for several months, if at all. Risks Related To Our ADSs The market price for our ADSs may be volatile. The market price for our ADSs may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results and changes or revisions of our expected results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • announcements of studies and reports relating to the effectiveness or safety of our products or those of our competitors; • announcements of technological or competitive developments; • any litigation, governmental investigation or enforcement proceedings brought against us by authorities and industry regulators in China or elsewhere; • announcements regarding patent litigation or the issuance of patents to us or our competitors; • addition or departure of our senior management and key research and development personnel; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other pharmaceutical or health care companies; • economic, regulatory or political developments in China; • release or expiration of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares or ADSs; and • sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs, or the perception that such sales might occur. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. 26 Dan Lou, our chairman, and his son, Dr. Jing Lou, our chief executive officer, control a number of shares sufficient to influence corporate actions. Dan Lou, the chairman of our board of directors, and his son, Dr. Jing Lou, our chief executive officer, together owned or controlled approximately 10.71% of our outstanding ordinary shares as of April 30, 2008. The interests of the Lou family may differ from those of our other shareholders, and they may take actions that advance their interests to the detriment of our other shareholders. Acting together, they would have sufficient voting power to influence the outcome of corporate actions submitted to the shareholders for approval and to influence our management and affairs, including the election of our board of directors. Chairman Lou is not required to stand for election at any meeting of our shareholders, and therefore serves for an undetermined period of time. In addition, this concentration of ownership may prevent attempts to remove or replace senior management. Our articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could adversely affect the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association include provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. These provisions could also serve to entrench our existing board of directors and management. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix their designations, powers, preferences, privileges, and relative participating, optional or special rights and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares, in the form of ADS or otherwise. Preferred shares could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. If our board of directors issues preferred shares, the market price of our ordinary shares or ADSs may decline and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be adversely affected. In addition, our articles of association provide that only a third of our board must stand for re-election at any annual meeting. Holders of ADSs have fewer rights than shareholders and must act through the depositary to exercise those rights. Holders of ADSs do not have the same rights as holders of our ordinary shares and ADS holders only have such rights as are specified in the deposit agreement, which generally are more restricted than the rights of holders of ordinary shares. Under the deposit agreement, if the vote is by show of hands, the depositary will vote the deposited securities in accordance with the voting instructions received from a majority of holders of ADSs that provided timely voting instructions. If the vote is by poll, the depositary will vote the deposited securities in accordance with the voting instructions it timely receives from ADS holders. In the event of poll voting, deposited securities for which no instructions are received will not be voted. Under our articles of association, the minimum notice period required to convene a general meeting is seven days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw your ordinary shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your shares. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ordinary shares are not voted as you requested. In addition, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to call a shareholder meeting. 27 You may be subject to limitations on transfers of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings, and you may not receive cash dividends if it is impractical to make them available to you. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not make rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act, or exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. In addition, the depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute such property, in which event you would not receive such distribution. We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than under United States law, you may have less protection of your shareholder rights than you would under United States law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, the rights of minority shareholders to institute actions, and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, the latter of which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, some states in the United States, such as Delaware, have more developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. There is uncertainty regarding whether Cayman Islands courts would: • recognize or enforce against us or our directors or officers judgments of courts of the United States predicated upon certain civil liability provisions of United States securities laws; and 28 • impose liability against us, in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, based on certain civil liability provisions of United States securities laws or laws of any state in the United States As a result of all of the above, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by our management, directors or major shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a United States company. Your ability to bring an action against us or against our directors and officers, or to enforce a judgment against us or them, will be limited because we are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, because we conduct substantially all of our operations in China and because the majority of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, and we conduct substantially all of our operations in China through our PRC subsidiaries. Most of our directors and officers reside, and substantially all of the assets of those persons are located, outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action in the United States against us or against these individuals in the event that you believe that your rights have been violated under United States securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands or China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. 