Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider and read carefully all of the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the consolidated financial statements and the related notes to financial statements. If any of the following events actually occur, our business, business prospects, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially affected. In any such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The metals industry, including silicon-based metals, is cyclical and has been subject in the past to swings in market price and demand which could lead to volatility in our revenues. Our business has historically been subject to fluctuations in the price of our products and market demand for them, caused by general and regional economic cycles, raw material and energy price fluctuations, competition and other factors. Historically, GMI has been particularly affected by recessionary conditions in the end-markets for its products. In April 2003, GMI sought protection under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code following its inability to restructure or refinance its indebtedness in light of the confluence of several negative economic and other factors, including an influx of low-priced, dumped imports, which caused it to default on then-outstanding indebtedness. A recurrence of such economic factors could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, condition (financial or otherwise) and results of operations. The world silicon metals industry has recently suffered from unfavorable market conditions. The weakened economic environment of national and international metals markets may continue or worsen; any decline could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, condition (financial or otherwise), and results of operations. In addition, our business is directly related to the production levels of our customers, whose businesses are dependent on highly cyclical markets, such as the automotive, residential and nonresidential construction, consumer durables, polysilicon, and chemical markets. In response to unfavorable market conditions, customers may request delays in contract shipment dates or other contract modifications. If we grant modifications, they could adversely affect our anticipated revenues and results of operations. In view of the current economic conditions, we cannot assure you that we will not grant contract modifications in the future. Also, many of our products are internationally traded products with prices that are significantly affected by worldwide supply and demand. Consequently, our financial performance will fluctuate with the general economic cycle, which could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, condition (financial or otherwise) and results of operations. Worldwide economic conditions have been extremely volatile in the last several months, leading to slowing economic activity, particularly in the United States, Western Europe and Japan. In addition, many commodity prices have declined significantly. There is a risk that silicon metal market conditions will weaken further due to the economic environment, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Our business is particularly sensitive to increases in energy costs which could materially increase our cost of production. Electricity is one of our largest production cost components, comprising approximately 28% of cost of goods sold. The level of power consumption of our electric production furnaces is highly dependent on which products are being produced and typically fall in the following ranges: (i) silicon-based alloys require between 3.5 and 8 megawatt hours to produce one MT of product and (ii) silicon metal requires approximately 11 megawatt hours to produce one MT of product. Accordingly, consistent access to low cost, reliable sources of electricity is essential to our business. Electrical power to our U.S. facilities is supplied mostly by AEP, Alabama Power and Brookfield Power through dedicated lines. Our Alloy, West Virginia facility obtains approximately 45% of its power needs under a 15-year 11 fixed-price contract with a nearby hydroelectric facility. This facility is over 70 years old and any breakdown could result in the Alloy facility having to pay much higher rates for electric power from third parties. Our energy supply for our facilities located in Argentina is supplied through the Edemsa hydroelectric facilities located in Mendoza, Argentina under a contract expiring in October 2009; we expect prices to increase under a new contract. Our energy needs for our facility in Brazil comes from the Tucurui hydroelectric plant, the fifth largest in the world, situated only a few kilometers away from our manufacturing facility. Because energy constitutes such a high percentage of our production costs, we are particularly vulnerable to cost fluctuations in the energy industry. Accordingly, the termination or non-renewal of any of our energy contracts, or an increase in the price of energy could materially adversely affect our future earnings, if any, and may prevent us from effectively competing in our markets. Losses caused by disruptions in the supply of power would reduce our profitability. Our operations are heavily dependent upon a reliable supply of electrical power. We may incur losses due to a temporary or prolonged interruption of the supply of electrical power to our facilities, which can be caused by unusually high demand, blackouts, equipment failure, natural disasters or other catastrophic events, including failure of the hydroelectric facilities that currently provide power under contract to our West Virginia, Argentina and Brazil facilities. Large amounts of electricity are used to produce silicon metal and silicon-based alloys, and any interruption or reduction in the supply of electrical power would adversely affect production levels and result in reduced profitability. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover any or all losses, and such policies do not cover all events. Certain of our insurance policies will not cover any losses that may be incurred if our suppliers are unable to provide power during periods of unusually high demand. Investments in Argentina’s and Brazil’s electricity generation and transmission systems have been lower than the increase in demand in recent years. If this trend is not reversed, there could be electricity supply shortages as the result of inadequate generation and transmission capacity. Given the heavy dependence on electricity of our manufacturing operations, any electricity shortages could adversely affect our financial results. Government regulations of electricity in Argentina give priority access of hydroelectric power to residential users and subject violators of these restrictions to significant penalties. This preference is particularly acute during Argentina’s winter months due to a lack of natural gas. We have previously successfully petitioned the government to exempt us from these restrictions given the demands of our business for continuous supply of electric power. If we are unsuccessful in our petitions or in any action we take to ensure a stable supply of electricity, our production levels may be adversely affected and our profitability reduced. Any decrease in the availability, or increase in the cost, of raw materials or transportation could materially increase our costs. Principal components in the production of silicon metal and silicon-based alloys include metallurgical-grade coal, charcoal, carbon electrodes, quartzite, wood chips, steel scrap, and other metals, such as magnesium. We buy some raw materials on a spot basis. We are dependent on certain suppliers of these products, their labor union relationships, mining and lumbering regulations and output and general local economic conditions in order to obtain raw materials in a cost efficient and timely manner. An increase in costs of raw materials or transportation, or the decrease in their production or deliverability in a timely fashion, or other disruptions in production, could result in increased costs to us and lower productivity levels. We may not be able to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials from alternative sources on terms as favorable as our current arrangements or at all. Any increases in the price or shortfall in the production and delivery of raw materials, could materially adversely affect our business prospects, condition (financial or otherwise) or results of operation. 12 Cost increases in raw material inputs may not be passed on to our customers with fixed contracts, which could negatively impact our profitability. The availability and prices of raw material inputs may be influenced by supply and demand, changes in world politics, unstable governments in exporting nations and inflation. The market prices of our products and raw material inputs are subject to change. We may not be able to pass a significant amount of increased input costs on to our customers. Additionally, we may not be able to obtain lower prices from our suppliers should our sale prices decrease. We make a significant portion of our sales to a limited number of customers, and the loss of a portion of the sales to these customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profits. In the year ended June 30, 2009, we made approximately 47% of our consolidated net sales to our top ten customers and approximately 29% to our top two customers. We expect that we will continue to derive a significant portion of our business from sales to these customers. If we were to experience a significant reduction in the amount of sales we make to some or all of these customers and could not replace these sales with sales to other customers, it could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profits. Our U.S.-based businesses benefit from U.S. antidumping duties and laws that protect U.S. companies by taxing imports from foreign companies. If these laws change, foreign companies will be able to compete more effectively with us. Conversely, our foreign operations are adversely affected by these U.S. duties and laws. Antidumping duties are currently in place covering silicon metal imports from China and Russia. The orders imposing these duties benefit our U.S. operations by constraining supply and increasing U.S. market prices and sales of domestic silicon metal. Rates of duty can change as a result of “administrative reviews” and “new shipper reviews” of antidumping orders. These orders can also be revoked as a result of periodic “sunset reviews,” which determine whether the orders will continue to apply to imports from particular countries. A sunset review of the order covering imports from China will be initiated in 2011. Thus, the current orders may not remain in effect and continue to be enforced from year to year, the goods and countries now covered by antidumping orders may no longer be covered, and duties may not continue to be assessed at the same rates. Changes in any of these factors could adversely affect our business and profitability. Finally, at times, in filing trade actions, we find ourselves acting against the interests of our customers. Some of our customers may not continue to do business with us because of our having filed a trade action. Antidumping rules may, conversely, also adversely impact our foreign operations. The European Union, like the U.S., can provide antidumping relief from imports sold at unfairly low prices. Our Brazilian facility is our primary source to supply most of our European demand. The European Union responded to claims of dumping by Chinese silicon metal suppliers in 1997 by imposing a 49% duty. Our Brazilian facility would be adversely affected if these duties were revoked or if antidumping measures were imposed against imports from Brazil. We may be unable to successfully integrate and develop our prior and future acquisitions. We acquired four private companies between November 2006 and February 2008, and entered into a business combination in May 2008. We expect to acquire additional companies in the future. Integration of our prior and future acquisitions with our existing business is a complex, time-consuming and costly process requiring the employment of additional personnel, including key management and accounting personnel. Additionally, the integration of these acquisitions with our existing business may require significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. Unanticipated problems, delays, costs or liabilities may also be encountered in the development of these acquisitions. Failure to successfully and fully integrate and develop these businesses and operations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The difficulties of combining the acquired operations include, among other things: • operating a significantly larger combined organization; • coordinating geographically disparate organizations, systems and facilities; 13 • consolidating corporate technological and administrative functions; • integrating internal controls and other corporate governance matters; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • unexpected customer or key employee loss from the acquired businesses; • hiring additional management and other critical personnel; • negotiating with labor unions; • a significant increase in our indebtedness; and • potential environmental or regulatory liabilities and title problems. In addition, we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from any prior and future acquisitions, such as increased earnings, cost savings and revenue enhancements, for various reasons, including difficulties integrating operations and personnel, higher and unexpected acquisition and operating costs, unknown liabilities, inaccurate reserve estimates and fluctuations in markets. If these benefits do not meet the expectations of financial or industry analysts, the market price of our shares may decline. We are subject to the risk of union disputes and work stoppages at our facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Hourly workers at our Alabama and West Virginia facilities are covered by collective bargaining agreements with the Industrial Division of the Communications Workers of America, under a contract running through July 2010 and with The United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union under a contract running through April 24, 2011. Our union employees in Brazil are working under a contract running through October 2009. Our union employees in Argentina are working under a contract running through April 2010. New labor contracts will have to be negotiated to replace expiring contracts from time to time. If we are unable to satisfactorily renegotiate those labor contracts on terms acceptable to us or without a strike or work stoppage, the effects on our business could be materially adverse. Any strike or work stoppage could disrupt production schedules and delivery times, adversely affecting sales. In addition, existing labor contracts may not prevent a strike or work stoppage, and any such work stoppage could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are dependent on key personnel. Our operations depend to a significant degree on the continued employment of our core senior management team. In particular, we are dependent on the skills, knowledge and experience of Alan Kestenbaum, our Executive Chairman, Jeff Bradley, our Chief Executive Officer, Arden Sims, our Chief Operating Officer, Malcolm Appelbaum, our Chief Financial Officer, and Stephen Lebowitz, our Chief Legal Officer. If these employees are unable to continue in their respective roles, or if we are unable to attract and retain other skilled employees, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We currently have employment agreements with Alan Kestenbaum, Jeff Bradley, Arden Sims, Malcolm Appelbaum and Stephen Lebowitz, each of which contains non-compete provisions. Such provisions may not be enforceable by us. Additionally, we are substantially dependent upon key personnel in our financial and information technology staff who enable us to meet our regulatory and contractual financial reporting obligations, including reporting requirements under our credit facilities. Metals manufacturing is an inherently dangerous activity. Metals manufacturing generally, and smelting, in particular, is inherently dangerous and subject to fire, explosion and sudden major equipment failure. This can and has resulted in accidents resulting in the serious injury or death of production personnel and prolonged production shutdowns. We have experienced fatal accidents and equipment malfunctions in our manufacturing facilities in recent years and may experience fatal accidents or equipment malfunctions again, which could materially affect our business and operations. 14 Unexpected equipment failures may lead to production curtailments or shutdowns. Many of our business activities are characterized by substantial investments in complex production facilities and manufacturing equipment. Because of the complex nature of our production facilities, any interruption in manufacturing resulting from fire, explosion, industrial accidents, natural disaster, equipment failures or otherwise could cause significant losses in operational capacity and could materially and adversely affect our business and operations. We depend on proprietary manufacturing processes and software. These processes may not yield the cost savings that we anticipate and our proprietary technology may be challenged. We rely on proprietary technologies and technical capabilities in order to compete effectively and produce high quality silicon metals and silicon-based alloys. Some of these proprietary technologies that we rely on are: • computerized technology that monitors and controls production furnaces; • production software that monitors the introduction of additives to alloys, allowing the precise formulation of the chemical composition of products; and • flowcaster equipment, which maintains certain characteristics of silicon-based alloys as they are cast. We are subject to a risk that: • we may not have sufficient funds to develop new technology and to implement effectively our technologies as competitors improve their processes; • if implemented, our technologies may not work as planned; and • our proprietary technologies may be challenged and we may not be able to protect our rights to these technologies. Patent or other intellectual property infringement claims may be asserted against us by a competitor or others. Our intellectual property may not be enforceable and it may not prevent others from developing and marketing competitive products or methods. An infringement action against us may require the diversion of substantial funds from our operations and may require management to expend efforts that might otherwise be devoted to operations. A successful challenge to the validity of any of our proprietary intellectual property may subject us to a significant award of damages or we may be enjoined from using our proprietary intellectual property, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and continuing technological advancement to maintain our competitive position. We may not be able to effectively protect our rights to unpatented trade secrets and know-how. We are subject to environmental, health and safety regulations, including laws that impose substantial costs and the risk of material liabilities. We are subject to extensive foreign, federal, national, state, provincial and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, the generation, discharge, emission, storage, handling, transportation, use, treatment and disposal of hazardous substances; land use, reclamation and remediation; and the health and safety of our employees. We are also required to obtain permits from governmental authorities for certain operations. We may not have been and may not be at all times in complete compliance with such laws, regulations and permits. If we violate or fail to comply with these laws, regulations or permits, we could be subject to penalties, fines, restrictions on operations or other sanctions. Under these laws, regulations and permits, we could also be held liable for any and all consequences arising out of human exposure to hazardous substances or environmental damage we may cause or that relates to our operations or properties. Under certain environmental laws, we could be required to remediate or be held responsible for all of the costs relating to any contamination at our or our predecessors’ past or present facilities and at third party waste disposal 15 sites. We could also be held liable under these environmental laws for sending or arranging for hazardous substances to be sent to third party disposal or treatment facilities if such facilities are found to be contaminated. Under these laws we could be held liable even if we did not know of, or were not responsible for, such contamination, or even if we never owned or operated the contaminated disposal or treatment facility. There are a variety of laws and regulations in place or being considered at the international, federal, regional, state and local levels of government that restrict or are reasonably likely to restrict the emission of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases. These legislative and regulatory developments may cause us to incur material costs if we are required to reduce or offset greenhouse gas emissions and may result in a material increase in our energy costs due to additional regulation of power generators. Environmental laws are complex, change frequently and are likely to become more stringent in the future. Therefore, our costs of complying with current and future environmental laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We operate in a highly competitive industry. The silicon-based alloy and silicon metal markets are capital intensive and competitive. Our primary competitors are Elkem AS, owned by Orkla ASA, a large Norwegian public company, Grupo Ferroatlantica S.L. and various producers in China. Our competitors may have greater financial resources, as well as other strategic advantages to maintain, improve and possibly expand their facilities; and as a result, they may be better positioned to adapt to changes in the industry or the global economy. The advantages that our competitors have over us could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, new entrants may increase competition in our industry, which could materially adversely affect our business. An increase in the use of substitutes for certain of our products also could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. We have historically operated at near the maximum capacity of our operating facilities. Because the cost of increasing capacity may be prohibitively expensive, we may have difficulty increasing our production and profits. Our facilities are able to manufacture collectively approximately 156,400 MT of silicon metal and 72,800 MT of silicon-based alloys on an annual basis. GMI intends to reopen its idled silicon metal production facility in Niagara Falls, New York, in fiscal 2010, which will increase our silicon metal capacity by approximately 30,000 MT. After we reopen this plant and it is operating at full capacity, and after reopening the Selma, Alabama plant, our ability to increase production and revenues will depend on expanding existing facilities or opening new ones. Increasing capacity is difficult because: • adding new production capacity to an existing silicon plant to produce approximately 14,000 MT of metallurgical grade silicon would cost approximately $25,000,000 per smelting furnace and take at least 12 to 18 months to complete; • a greenfield development project would take at least three to five years to complete and would require significant capital expenditure and environmental compliance costs; and • obtaining sufficient and dependable power at competitive rates near areas with the required natural resources is difficult to accomplish. We may not have sufficient funds to expand existing facilities or open new ones and may be required to incur significant debt to do so, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Some of our subsidiaries are subject to restrictive covenants under credit facilities. These covenants could significantly affect the way in which we conduct our business. Our failure to comply with these covenants could lead to an acceleration of our debt. Credit facilities maintained by some of our subsidiaries contain covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to sell assets; incur, repay or refinance indebtedness; create liens; make investments; engage in mergers or acquisitions; pay dividends, including to us; repurchase stock; or make capital expenditures. These credit facilities also 16 require compliance with specified financial covenants, including minimum interest coverage and maximum leverage ratios. These subsidiaries cannot borrow under their credit facilities if the additional borrowings would cause them to breach the financial covenants. Further, a significant portion of GMI’s and Globe Metais’ assets are pledged to secure indebtedness. Our ability to continue to comply with applicable covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. The breach of any of the covenants contained in a credit facility, unless waived, would be a default under the facility. This would permit the lenders to terminate their commitments to extend credit under, and accelerate the maturity of, the facility. The acceleration of debt could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity. If we were unable to repay our debt to the lenders and holders or otherwise obtain a waiver from the lenders and holders, the lenders and holders could proceed against the collateral securing the credit facility and exercise all other rights available to them. We may not have sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments and may not be able to obtain any such waiver on acceptable terms or at all. Certain of our subsidiaries are restricted from making distributions to us which limits our ability to pay dividends. Substantially all of our assets are held by and our revenues are generated by our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries borrow funds in order to finance our operations. The terms of certain of those financings place restrictions on distributions of funds to us. If these limitations prevent distributions to us or our subsidiaries do not generate positive cash flows, we will be limited in our ability to pay dividends and may be unable to transfer funds between subsidiaries if required to support our subsidiaries. Our insurance costs may increase and we may experience additional exclusions and limitations on coverage in the future. We have maintained various forms of insurance, including insurance covering claims related to our properties and risks associated with our operations. Our existing property and liability insurance coverages contain exclusions and limitations on coverage. From time-to-time, in connection with renewals of insurance, we have experienced additional exclusions and limitations on coverage, larger self-insured retentions and deductibles and significantly higher premiums. As a result, in the future our insurance coverage may not cover claims to the extent that it has in the past and the costs that we incur to procure insurance may increase significantly, either of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Solsil may never operate profitably or generate substantial revenues. We acquired an 81% interest in Solsil in February 2008 and, although we expect to expand its operations through the construction of new facilities, its financial prospects are uncertain. Solsil’s continued growth, including the construction of new facilities, will require a commitment of significant financial resources that we may determine are not available given the expansion of other existing operations and continuing research and development efforts. In addition, Solsil’s continued growth requires a commitment of personnel, including key positions in management that may not be available to us when needed. Unanticipated problems, construction delays, cost overruns, raw material shortages, environmental and/or governmental regulation, limited power availability or unexpected liabilities may also be encountered. Furthermore, Solsil’s future profitability is dependent on its ability to produce UMG at significantly larger scales than it currently produces today and with commercially viable costs. Some of the other challenges we may encounter include: • technical challenges, including further improving Solsil’s proprietary metallurgical process; • increasing the size and scale of our operations on a cost-effective basis; • capitalizing on market demands and potentially rapid market supply and demand fluctuations; • continued acceptance by the market of our current and future products, including the use of UMG in the photovoltaic (solar) market; • a rapidly growing competitive environment with more new players entering the photovoltaic (solar) market; 17 • achieving the objectives and responsibilities under our joint development and supply agreement with BP Solar International; • alternative competing technologies such as thin films, ribbon string and nano-technology; and • responding to rapid technological changes. Failure to successfully address these and other challenges may hinder or prevent our ability to achieve our objectives in a timely manner. We have operations and assets in the U.S., Argentina, Brazil, China and Poland, and may have operations and assets in other countries in the future. Our international operations and assets may be subject to various economic, social and governmental risks. Our international operations and sales will expose us to risks that could negatively impact our future sales or profitability. Our operations may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected in a country with an economy similar to the United States. The additional risks that we may be exposed to in these cases include, but are not limited to: • tariffs and trade barriers; • currency fluctuations which could decrease our revenues or increase our costs in U.S. dollars; • regulations related to customs and import/export matters; • tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws; • limited access to qualified staff; • inadequate infrastructure; • cultural and language differences; • inadequate banking systems; • different and more stringent environmental laws and regulations; • restrictions on the repatriation of profits or payment of dividends; • crime, strikes, riots, civil disturbances, terrorist attacks or wars; • nationalization or expropriation of property; • law enforcement authorities and courts that are weak or inexperienced in commercial matters; and • deterioration of political relations among countries. Our competitive strength as a low-cost silicon metal producer is partly tied to the value of the U.S. dollar compared to other currencies. The U.S. dollar has fluctuated significantly in value in comparison to major currencies in recent months. Should the value of the U.S. dollar rise in comparison to other currencies, we may lose this competitive strength. Exchange controls and restrictions on transfers abroad and capital inflow restrictions have limited and can be expected to continue to limit the availability of international credit. In 2001 and 2002, Argentina imposed exchange controls and transfer restrictions substantially limiting the ability of companies to retain foreign currency or make payments abroad. These restrictions have been substantially eased, including those requiring the Central Bank’s prior authorization for the transfer of funds abroad in order to pay dividends. However, Argentina may re-impose exchange control or transfer restrictions in the future, among other things, in response to capital flight or a significant depreciation of the peso. In addition, the government adopted various rules and regulations in June 2005 that established new controls on capital inflows, requiring, among other things, that 30% of all capital inflows (subject to certain exceptions) be deposited for one year in a nonassignable non-interest bearing account in Argentina. Additional controls could have a negative effect on the economy and Globe Metales’ business if imposed in an economic 18 environment where access to local capital is substantially constrained. Moreover, in such event, restrictions on the transfers of funds abroad may impede our ability to receive dividend payments as a holder of Globe Metales’ shares. Our stock price may be volatile, and purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses. Our stock price may be volatile. The stock market in general has experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. As a result of this volatility, you may not be able to sell your common stock at or above the price at which you purchase the shares. The market price for our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including: • the success of competitive products or technologies; • regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; • developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights; • the recruitment or departure of key personnel; • quarterly or annual variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us; • market conditions in the industries in which we compete and issuance of new or changed securities analysts’ reports or recommendations; • the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock or changes in financial estimates by analysts; • the inability to meet the financial estimates of analysts who follow our common stock; • investor perception of our company and of the industry in which we compete; and • general economic, political and market conditions. A substantial portion of our total outstanding shares may be sold into the market at any time. This could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. In October 2009, we intend to register up to an additional 57,074,263 shares of common stock, 201,453 shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of warrants, and 2,403,150 shares underlying unit purchase options. After the effectiveness of the registration of all of the foregoing shares and the expiration of the lock-up agreements, applicable to up to 44,872,658 shares, all of such shares will be freely tradable without restrictions or further registration under the federal securities laws, unless purchased by our “affiliates” as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Because only a limited number of shares are available for sale presently due to existing contractual and legal restrictions on resale, there may be sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market after the restrictions lapse. This may adversely affect the prevailing market price and our ability to raise equity capital in the future. Additionally, we intend to register 5,000,000 shares of our common stock that we may issue under our stock plan, some of which shares are not subject to lock-up agreements. Once we register these shares, they can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to certain lock-up agreements. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. The concentration of our capital stock ownership among our largest stockholders, and their affiliates, will limit your ability to influence corporate matters. Our four largest stockholders, including our Executive Chairman, together beneficially own approximately 46% of our outstanding common stock. Consequently, these stockholders have significant influence over all matters that require approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership will limit your ability to influence corporate matters, and as a result, actions may be taken that you may not view as beneficial. 19 Prior material weaknesses and significant deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting may not have been adequately remediated and may adversely affect our ability to comply with financial reporting regulations and to publish accurate financial statements. We maintain a system of internal control over financial reporting, which is defined as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, our Principal Executive Officers and Principal Financial Officer, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by our Board of Directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. As a public company, we will have significant additional requirements for enhanced financial reporting and internal controls. We will be required to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing these assessments. The process of designing and implementing effective internal controls is a continuous effort that requires us to anticipate and react to changes in our business and the economic and regulatory environments and to expend significant resources to maintain a system of internal controls that is adequate to satisfy our reporting obligations as a public company. While we believe that we have remediated the material weaknesses and certain significant deficiencies identified in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, the corrective actions we have taken may not have completely remediated the remaining significant deficiencies. As a result of inherent limitations, our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements, errors or omissions. Any projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or that the degree of compliance with our policies or procedures may deteriorate. We cannot be certain in future periods that other control deficiencies that may constitute one or more material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement or difficulty in implementing required new or improved controls, our business and results of operations could be harmed, the results of operations we report could be subject to adjustments, we could incur further remediation costs, we could fail to be able to provide reasonable assurance as to our financial results or the effectiveness of our internal controls or meet our reporting obligations to the SEC and third parties (including lenders under our financing arrangements) on a timely basis and there could be a material adverse effect on the price of our securities. We have not yet completed our evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting in compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We will be required to comply with the internal control evaluation and certification requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in fiscal 2010. We have not yet completed our evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting. During the course of our evaluation, we have identified and may identify more areas requiring improvement and may be required to design enhanced processes and controls to address issues identified through this review. We may experience higher than anticipated operating expenses as well as outside auditing, consulting and other professional fees during the implementation of these changes and thereafter. Further, we may need to hire additional qualified personnel in order for us to complete our evaluation and remedy our deficiencies, as well as to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to implement these changes effectively or efficiently, it could harm our operations, financial reporting or financial results and could result in our conclusion that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. In addition, the terms of any future debt agreements may preclude us from paying dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock may be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. 20 Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could deter or prevent a change in control. Some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, as well as Delaware statutes, may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control. These provisions, including those providing for the possible issuance of shares of our preferred stock and the right of the Board of Directors to amend the bylaws, may make it more difficult for other persons, without the approval of our Board of Directors, to make a tender offer or otherwise acquire a substantial number of shares of our common stock or to launch other takeover attempts that a stockholder might consider to be in his or her best interest. These provisions could limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 