Item 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities involves a number of risks. Before making a decision to purchase our securities, you should carefully consider all of the risks described in this annual report. If any of the risks discussed in this annual report actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If this were to occur, the trading price of our securities could decline significantly and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related To Our Business We may not be able to meet our cash requirements beyond 2011 without obtaining additional capital from external sources, and if we are unable to do so, we may not be able to continue as a going concern. As of December 31, 2010, we had $6.6 million in cash and cash equivalents which we anticipate will meet our cash requirements through approximately the fourth quarter of 2011. However, in order for us to continue as a going concern beyond that point, we may be required to obtain capital from external sources. If external financing sources are not available in a timely manner or at all, or are inadequate to fund our operations, it could result in reduced revenues and cash flows from the sales of our diagnostic services 16 Table of Contents and/or could jeopardize our ability to launch, market and sell additional products and services necessary to grow and sustain our operations. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, and if additional capital is not available on acceptable terms, in a timely manner, or at all, we may have to curtail or cease operations. Our future capital requirements will be substantial and will depend on many factors, including how quickly we commercialize our test offerings and the progress and scope of our collaborative and independent research and development projects. Changes may occur that would cause our available capital resources to be consumed significantly sooner and more rapidly than we expect. Even if available, financings can involve significant costs and expenses, such as legal and accounting fees, diversion of management's time and efforts, or substantial transaction costs. Financings may also involve substantial dilution to existing stockholders, and may contain rights senior to existing stockholders. We may be unable to raise sufficient additional capital in a timely manner, on favorable terms or at all. If we fail to do so, we would have to curtail or cease operations or enter into agreements requiring us to relinquish rights to certain technologies, products, or markets because we will not have the capital necessary to exploit them. We have a history of losses and expect to incur additional losses in the future. We have sustained substantial losses since our inception. We may never become profitable, or if we do, we may never be able to sustain profitability. We expect to incur significant research and development, marketing, general and administrative expenses. As a result, we expect to incur losses for the foreseeable future. To date, we have relied primarily upon selling equity and convertible securities, as well as payments from strategic partners, to generate the funds needed to finance the implementation of our business strategies. We cannot assure you that we will not encounter unforeseen difficulties, including the outside influences identified below that may deplete our capital resources more rapidly than anticipated. Our subsidiary companies also may be required to obtain additional financing through bank borrowings, debt or equity financings or otherwise, which would require us to make additional investments or face a dilution of our equity interests. We cannot be sure that additional funding will be available on favorable terms, if at all. If we fail to obtain additional funding when needed for our subsidiary companies and ourselves, we may not be able to execute our business plans or continue operations, and our business may be materially adversely affected. We began commercialization of our molecular diagnostics services in 2006. Accordingly, we have a limited operating history of generating revenues from products and services. In addition, we are still developing our product and service offerings and are subject to the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies with such limited operating histories. Since we have a limited operating history, we cannot assure you that our operations will become profitable or that we will generate sufficient revenues to meet our expenditures and support our activities. Because our business operations are subject to many uncontrollable outside influences, we may not succeed. Our business operations are subject to numerous risks from outside influences, including the following: •Technological advances may make our array-based technology obsolete or less competitive, and as a result, our revenue and the value of our assets could materially decrease. Our services are dependent upon oligo and BAC array-based technologies. These technologies compete with conventional diagnostic technologies such as FISH and PCR. Our products and services are substantially dependent upon our ability to offer the latest in array technology in the 17 Table of Contents SNP genotyping, gene expression profiling, CGH and proteomic markets. We believe technological advances of conventional arrays are currently being developed by our existing competition, including companies such as LabCorp and Perkin-Elmer, and potential new competitors in the market. We also expect to face additional competition from new market entrants and consolidation of our existing competitors. Many of our competitors have existing strategic relationships with major pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, greater commercial experience and substantially greater financial and personnel resources than we do. We expect new competitors to emerge and the intensity of competition to increase in the future. If these companies are able to offer technological advances, our products may become less valuable or even obsolete. We cannot provide any assurance that existing or new competitors will not enter the market with the same or similar technological advances before we are able to do so. •New environmental regulation may materially increase the net losses of our business. Our operations involve the use, transportation, storage and disposal of hazardous substances, and as a result, we are subject to environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. If we were to be found in violation of these laws and regulations, we may face fines or other penalties. Also, any changes in these laws and regulations could increase our compliance costs, and as a result, could materially increase our net losses. •Our technologies face uncertain market value. Our business includes many products, some of which were recently introduced into the market. These technologies and products have not gained widespread market acceptance, and we cannot provide any assurance that the increase, if any, in market acceptance of these technologies and products will meet or exceed our expectations. Further, we are developing products and services, some of which have not yet been introduced into the market. A lack of or limited market acceptance of these technologies, products and services will have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations. •We obtain components and raw materials from a limited number of sources, and, in some cases, a single source, and the loss or interruption of our supply sources may materially adversely impact our ability to manufacture our products to meet our existing or future sales targets. Substantially all of the components and raw materials used in the manufacture of our products are currently provided from a limited number of sources or, in some cases, from a single source. Any supply interruption in a sole-sourced component or raw material might result in significant production delays and materially harm our ability to manufacture products until a new or alternative source of supply, if any, could be located and qualified. In addition, an uncorrected impurity or supplier's variation in a raw material, either unknown to us or incompatible with our manufacturing process, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manufacture products. We may be unable to find a sufficient alternative supply channel in a reasonable time period, or on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Any one of the foregoing outside influences may require us to seek additional financing to meet the challenges presented or to mitigate a loss in revenue, and we may not be able to obtain the needed financing in a timely manner on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Further, any one of the foregoing outside influences affecting our business could make it less likely that we will be able to gain acceptance of our array technology by researchers in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and academic communities. 18 Table of Contents Our revenues will be unpredictable, and this may materially adversely affect our financial condition. The amount and timing of revenues that we may realize from our business will be unpredictable because whether our products and services are commercialized and generate revenues depends, in part, on the efforts and timing of our potential customers. Also, our sales cycles may be lengthy. As a result, our revenues may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, which could make our business difficult to manage and cause our quarterly results to be below market expectations. If this happens, the price of our common stock may decline significantly. The genetic diagnostic laboratory market is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, and evolving industry standards, and we may encounter difficulties keeping pace with changes in this market. The introduction of diagnostic tests embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards can render existing tests obsolete and unmarketable in short periods of time. We expect our competitors to introduce new products and services and enhancements to their existing products and services. We may not be able to enhance our current tests, or to develop new tests, in a manner that keeps pace with emerging industry standards and achieves market acceptance. Our inability to accomplish any of these endeavors will likely have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows, and financial condition. If we do not enter into successful partnerships and collaborations with other companies, we may not be able to fully develop our technologies or products, and our business would be materially adversely affected. Since we do not possess all of the resources necessary to develop and commercialize products that may result from our technologies on a mass scale, we will need either to grow our sales, marketing and support group or make appropriate arrangements with strategic partners to market, sell and support our products. We believe that we will have to enter into additional strategic partnerships to develop and commercialize future products. If we cannot identify adequate partners, if we do not enter into adequate agreements, or if our existing arrangements or future agreements are not successful, our ability to develop and commercialize products will be impacted negatively, and our revenues will be materially adversely affected. We have limited commercial experience in marketing or selling any of our potential products and services, and unless we develop these capabilities, we may not be successful. Even if we are able to develop our products and services for commercial release on a large scale, we have limited experience in performing our tests in the volumes that will be necessary for us to achieve commercial sales and in marketing or selling our products to potential customers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to commercially perform our tests on a timely basis, in sufficient quantities, or on commercially reasonable terms. We face intense competition, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful competing in the market. The diagnostics market is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, changes in customer needs, emerging competition and new product introductions. One or more of our competitors may offer technology superior to ours and render our technology obsolete or uneconomical. Many of our competitors have greater financial and personnel resources and more experience in marketing, sales and research and development than we have. If we were not able to compete successfully, our business and financial condition would be materially harmed. 19 Table of Contents If our technology is not widely adopted by physicians and laboratories in the diagnostics market, our business will be materially adversely affected. In order to be successful, our test offerings must meet the commercial requirements of hospitals and physicians and be considered the standard of care in order to be widely adopted. Market acceptance will depend on many factors, including: •the benefits and cost-effectiveness of our products relative to others available in the market; •our ability to provide testing services in sufficient quantities with acceptable quality and reliability and at an acceptable cost; •our ability to develop and market additional tests and enhance existing tests that are responsive to the changing needs of our customers; and •the willingness and ability of customers to adopt new technologies or the reluctance of customers to change technologies upon which they have previously relied. Our tests may not gain market acceptance. In that event, it is unlikely that our business will succeed. U.S. healthcare reform legislation may result in significant changes, and our business could be adversely impacted if we fail to adapt. Government oversight of and attention to the healthcare industry in the United States is significant and increasing. In March 2010, U.S. federal legislation was enacted to reform healthcare. The legislation provides for reductions in the Medicare clinical laboratory fee schedule beginning in 2011 and also includes a productivity adjustment that reduces the CPI market basket update beginning in 2011. The legislation imposes an excise tax on the seller for the sale of certain medical devices in the United States, including those purchased and used by laboratories, beginning in 2013. The legislation establishes the Independent Payment Advisory Board, which will be responsible, beginning in 2014, annually to submit proposals aimed at reducing Medicare cost growth while preserving quality. These proposals automatically will be implemented unless Congress enacts alternative proposals that achieve the same savings targets. Further, the legislation calls for a Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation that will examine alternative payment methodologies and conduct demonstration programs. The legislation provides for extensive health insurance reforms, including the elimination of pre-existing condition exclusions and other limitations on coverage, fixed percentages on medical loss ratios, expansion in Medicaid and other programs, employer mandates, individual mandates, creation of state and regional health insurance exchanges, and tax subsidies for individuals to help cover the cost of individual insurance coverage. The legislation also permits the establishment of accountable care organizations, a new healthcare delivery model. While the ultimate impact of the legislation on the healthcare industry is unknown, it is likely to be extensive and may result in significant change. Our failure to adapt to these changes could have a material adverse effect on our business. A significant component of our revenue is dependent on successful insurance claims. Our revenue will be diminished if payors do not adequately cover or reimburse us for our services. Physicians and patients may decide not to order our high-complexity genomic microarray tests unless third-party payors, such as managed care organizations as well as government payors such as Medicare and Medicaid, pay a substantial portion of the test price. Reimbursement by a third-party payor may depend on a number of factors, including a payor's determination that tests using our technologies are: •not experimental or investigational; •medically necessary; •appropriate for the specific patient; 20 Table of Contents •cost-effective; •supported by peer-reviewed publications; and •included in clinical practice guidelines. A substantial portion of the testing for which we bill our hospital and laboratory clients is ultimately paid by third-party payors. However, there is uncertainty concerning third-party payor reimbursement of any test, including our high-complexity genome microarray tests. Several entities conduct technology assessments of medical tests and devices and provide the results of their assessments for informational purposes to other parties. These assessments may be used by third-party payors and health care providers as grounds to deny coverage for a test or procedure. It is possible that federal, state and third-party insurers may limit their coverage of our tests in the future. Increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States is likely to put pressure on the pricing of healthcare services. Uncertainty exists as to the coverage and reimbursement status of new applications or services. Governmental payors and private payors are scrutinizing new medical products and services. Such third-parties may not cover, or may limit coverage and resulting reimbursement for our services. Additionally, third-party insurance coverage may not be available to patients for any of our existing tests or tests we may add in the future. Any pricing pressure exerted by these third-party payors on our customers may, in turn, be exerted by our customers on us. If governmental payors, including their contracted administrators, and other third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage and/or timely reimbursement for our services, our operating results, cash flows, or financial condition may materially decline. Our business could be adversely impacted by the adoption of new coding for molecular genetic tests. In October 2010, the American Medical Association CPT Editorial Panel approved 27 new analyte specific codes (and will consider additional codes in 2011) to describe several molecular genetic tests that currently require multiple CPT codes for billing purposes. The new codes could replace the current codes for payers, including Medicare, beginning January 1, 2012. Reimbursement levels for the new codes have yet to be determined. If reimbursement levels for the new codes do not recognize the value of the molecular genetic tests, our revenues and earnings could be adversely impacted. Our cash flows and financial condition may materially decline if payors do not reimburse us for our services in a timely manner. We depend on our payors to reimburse us for our services in timely manner. If our payors, particularly Medicare or Medicare's designated administrator, do not reimburse us in a timely manner, our cash flows and financial condition may materially decline. Third-party billing is extremely complicated and could result in us incurring significant additional costs. Billing for esoteric laboratory services is extremely complicated. The customer is the party that refers the tests and the payor is the party that pays for the tests, and the two are not always the same. Depending on the billing arrangement and/or applicable law, we need to bill various payors, such as patients, health insurance companies, Medicare, Medicaid, doctors and employer groups, all of which have different billing requirements. Health insurance companies and governmental payors also generally require complete and correct billing information within certain filing deadlines. Additionally, our billing relationships require us to undertake internal audits to evaluate compliance with applicable laws and regulations as well as internal compliance policies and procedures. Health insurance companies also impose routine external audits to evaluate payments made. Additional factors complicating billing are: •pricing differences between our fee schedules and the reimbursement rates of the payors; 21 Table of Contents •disputes with payors as to which party is responsible for payment; and •disparity in coverage and information requirements among various carriers. We incur significant additional costs as a result of our participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, as billing and reimbursement for laboratory testing are subject to considerable and complex federal and state regulations. The additional costs we expect to incur as a result of our participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs include costs related to, among other factors: (1) complexity added to our billing processes; (2) training and education of our employees and customers; (3) implementing compliance procedures and oversight; (4) collections and legal costs; (5) challenging coverage and payment denials; and (6) providing patients with information regarding claims processing and services, such as advanced beneficiary notices. If these costs increase, our results of operations will be materially adversely affected. Loss of or adverse changes to our accreditations or licenses could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects and results of operations. The clinical laboratory testing industry is highly regulated. We are subject to CLIA, a federal law that regulates clinical laboratories that perform testing on specimens derived from humans for the purpose of providing information for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of disease. CLIA is intended to ensure the quality and reliability of clinical laboratories in the United States by mandating specific standards in the areas of personnel qualifications, administration, and participation in proficiency testing, patient test management, quality control, quality assurance and inspections. We have a current certificate of accreditation under CLIA to perform testing. To renew this certificate, we are subject to survey and inspection every two years. Moreover, CLIA inspectors may make random inspections of our clinical reference laboratory. A failure to pass such inspections would result in suspension of our certificate of accreditation, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are also required to maintain a license to conduct testing in California. California laws establish standards for day-to-day operation of our clinical reference laboratory, including the training and skills required of personnel and quality control. Moreover, several states require that we hold licenses to test specimens from patients in those states. Other states may have similar requirements or may adopt similar requirements in the future. A failure to obtain and maintain these licenses would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations 22 Table of Contents Complying with numerous regulations pertaining to our business is an expensive and time-consuming process, failure of which could result in significant penalties and suspension of one or more of our licenses. Areas of the regulatory environment that may affect our ability to conduct business include, without limitation: •Federal and state laws applicable to billing and claims payment and/or regulatory agencies enforcing those laws and regulations; •Federal and state laboratory anti-mark-up laws; •Federal and state anti-kickback laws; •Federal and state false claims laws; •Federal and state self-referral and financial inducement laws, including the federal physician anti-self-referral law, or the Stark Law; •Coverage and reimbursement levels by Medicare, Medicaid, other governmental payors and private insurers; •Restrictions on reimbursements for our services; •Federal and state laws governing laboratory testing, including CLIA; •Federal and state laws governing the development, use and distribution of diagnostic medical tests known as "home brews"; •HIPAA; •Federal and state regulation of privacy, security and electronic transactions; •State laws regarding prohibitions on the corporate practice of medicine; •State laws regarding prohibitions on fee-splitting; •Federal, state and local laws governing the handling and disposal of medical and hazardous waste; and •Occupational Safety and Health Administration ("OSHA") rules and regulations. The above noted laws and regulations are extremely complex and in many instances, there are no significant regulatory or judicial interpretations of such laws and regulations. We also may be subject to regulation in foreign jurisdictions as we seek to expand international distribution of our tests. Any determination that we have violated these laws, or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of these laws, would materially adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, a significant change in any of these laws may require us to change our business model in order to maintain compliance with these laws, which could reduce our revenue or increase our costs and materially adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations, and financial condition. We are subject to significant environmental, health and safety regulation. We are subject to licensing and regulation under federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and human health and safety, including laws and regulations relating to the handling, transportation and disposal of medical specimens, infectious and hazardous waste and radioactive materials, as well as to the safety and health of laboratory employees. In addition, OSHA has established extensive requirements relating to workplace safety for health care employers, including clinical laboratories, whose workers may be exposed to blood-borne pathogens such as HIV and the hepatitis B virus. These regulations, among other things, require work practice controls, protective clothing 23 Table of Contents and equipment, training, medical follow-up, vaccinations, and other measures designed to minimize exposure to, and transmission of, blood-borne pathogens. In addition, the federally-enacted Needlestick Safety and Prevention Act requires, among other things, that we include in our safety programs the evaluation and use of engineering controls such as safety needles if found to be effective at reducing the risk of needlestick injuries in the workplace. If we are found in violation of any of these regulations, we could be subject to substantial penalties or discipline and our business, prospects and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to federal and state laws governing the financial relationship among healthcare providers, including Medicare and Medicaid laws, and our failure to comply with these laws could result in significant penalties and other material adverse consequences. We anticipate that a significant component of our future revenue will be dependent on reimbursement from Medicare and state Medicaid programs. The Medicare program is administered by CMS which, like the states that administer their respective state Medicaid programs, imposes extensive and detailed requirements on diagnostic services providers, including, but not limited to, rules that govern how we structure our relationships with physicians, how and when we submit reimbursement claims and how we provide our specialized diagnostic services. Our failure to comply with applicable Medicare, Medicaid and other governmental payor rules could result in our inability to participate in a governmental payor program, our returning of funds already paid to us, civil monetary penalties, criminal penalties and/or limitations on the operational function of our laboratory. Any of these outcomes would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business is subject to stringent laws and regulations governing the privacy, security and transmission of medical information, and our failure to comply could subject us to criminal penalties and civil sanctions. Governmental laws and regulations protect the privacy, security and transmission of medical information. Such laws and regulations restrict our ability to use or disclose patient identifiable laboratory data, without patient authorization, for purposes other than payment, treatment or healthcare operations (as defined by HIPAA), except for disclosures for various public policy purposes and other permitted purposes outlined in the privacy regulations. The privacy and security regulations provide for significant fines and other penalties for wrongful use or disclosure of PHI, including potential civil and criminal fines and penalties. We also could incur damages under state laws to private parties for the wrongful use or disclosure of confidential health information or other private personal information. Our product development efforts may be hindered if we are unable to gain access to patients' tissue and blood samples. The development of our diagnostic products requires access to tissue and blood samples from patients who have the diseases we are addressing. Our clinical development relies on our ability to secure access to these samples, as well as information pertaining to their associated clinical outcomes. Access to samples can be difficult since it may involve multiple levels of approval, complex usage rights and privacy rights, among other issues. Lack of or limited access to samples would harm our future product development efforts, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations If our current laboratory facility becomes inoperable or loses certification, we will be unable to perform our tests and our business will be materially adversely affected. Our diagnostic tests are operated out of our CLIA-certified laboratory in Irvine, California. Currently, we do not have a second certified laboratory. Should our only CLIA-certified laboratory be unable to perform tests, for any reason, we may be unable to perform needed diagnostic tests in connection with our product development and our business will be materially adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents Our future success depends on the continued service from our scientific, technical and key management personnel and our ability to identify, hire and retain additional scientific, technical and key management personnel in the future. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in our industry, particularly for laboratory technicians, scientific and medical experts, and senior level management. Loss of the services of, or failure to recruit, these key personnel functions could be significantly detrimental to us and could materially adversely affect our business and operating results. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain scientific and medical experts or other qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business or to replace key personnel who may leave us in the future. If our business grows, it will place increased demands on our resources and likely will require the addition of new management personnel. An inability to recruit and retain qualified management and employees on commercially reasonable terms would adversely and materially affect our business. The FDA may decide to regulate Laboratory Developed Tests ("LDTs"), which could prevent us from offering existing tests and/or delay the introduction of new testing services. During 2010, the FDA publicly announced that it has decided to exercise regulatory authority over LDTs and that it plans to issue guidance to the industry regarding its regulatory approach. The FDA has indicated that it will use a risk-based approach to regulation and will direct more resources to tests with wider distribution and with the highest risk of injury, but that it will be sensitive to the need to not adversely impact patient care or innovation. The FDA has not announced a framework or timetable for implementing its new regulatory approach. The regulatory approach adopted by the FDA may lead to an increased regulatory burden, including additional costs and delays in introducing new tests. While the ultimate impact of the FDA's approach is unknown, it may be extensive and may result in significant change. Our failure to adapt to these changes could have a material adverse effect on our business. As our operations expand, our costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations will increase, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could materially harm our financial results. Our operations involve the use, transportation, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and as a result we are subject to environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. As we expand our operations, our use of hazardous substances will increase and lead to additional and more stringent requirements. The cost to comply with these and any future environmental and health and safety regulations could be substantial. In addition, our failure to comply with laws and regulations, and any releases of hazardous substances into the environment or at our disposal sites, could expose our group to substantial liability in the form of fines, penalties, remediation costs and other damages, or could lead to a curtailment or shut down of our operations. These types of events, if they occur, would materially adversely affect our financial results. Any litigation to protect our intellectual property, or any third-party claims of infringement, could divert substantial time and money from our business and could shut down some of our operations. Our commercial success depends, in part, on our non-infringement of the patents or proprietary rights of third-parties. Many companies developing technology for the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries use litigation aggressively as a strategy to protect and expand the scope of their intellectual property rights. Accordingly, third-parties may assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. In addition, third-parties may claim that use of our technologies infringes their current or future patents. We could incur substantial costs defending against such allegations regardless of their merit, and the attention of our management and technical personnel could be diverted while defending ourselves against any of these claims. We may incur the same liabilities in enforcing our patents against others. We have not made any provision in our financial plans for potential intellectual property 25 Table of Contents related litigation, and we may not be able to pursue litigation as aggressively as competitors with substantially greater financial resources. If parties making infringement claims against us are successful, they may be able to obtain injunctive or other relief, which effectively could block our ability to further develop, commercialize, and sell products and/or services, and could result in the award of substantial damages against us. If we are unsuccessful in protecting and expanding the scope of our intellectual property rights, our competitors may be able to develop, commercialize, and sell products and/or services that compete against us using similar technologies or obtain patents that could effectively block our ability to further develop, commercialize, and sell our products and/or services. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay substantial damages and either discontinue those aspects of our business involving the technology upon which we infringed or obtain one or more licenses from third-parties, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. While we may license additional technology in the future, we may not be able to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, or at all. In that event, we could encounter delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative methods or products, and such attempts may not be successful. Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any of these licenses could prevent us from commercializing available products and/or services, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We could face substantial liabilities if we are sued for product liability. Product liability claims could be filed by someone alleging that our product failed to perform as claimed. We may also be subject to liability for errors in the performance of our tests. Such product liability and related claims could be substantial. Though we believe we carry sufficient liability insurance, defense of such claims could be time consuming and expensive and could result in damages that are not covered by our insurance. Exposure to possible litigation and legal liability may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the past, we have been exposed to a variety of litigation claims and there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to other litigation in the future that may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. On February 14, 2011, Relator Michael Strathmann, PhD. served us with a Complaint filed in the Superior Court of the State of California for the County of Orange. The Complaint alleges that we submitted false and fraudulent insurance claims to National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, PA in connection with a prior lawsuit that was settled with Nanogen, Inc., thereby allegedly violating the California Insurance Fraud Prevention Act, and seeks penalties and unspecified treble damages. Defense of this lawsuit could be time-consuming and expensive, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our defense. Failure to effectively manage our growth could place strains on our managerial, operational and financial resources and could materially adversely affect our business and operating results. Our growth has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources. Any further growth by us or an increase in the number of our strategic relationships will increase this strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources. This strain may inhibit our ability to achieve the rapid execution necessary to successfully implement our business plan. 26 Table of Contents As a public company, we are subject to complex legal and accounting requirements that will require us to incur substantial expense and will expose us to risk of non-compliance. As a public company, we are subject to numerous legal and accounting requirements that do not apply to private companies. The cost of compliance with many of these requirements is substantial, not only in absolute terms but, more importantly, in relation to the overall scope of the operations of a small company. Failure to comply with these requirements can have numerous adverse consequences including, but not limited to, our inability to file required periodic reports on a timely basis, which would result in the loss of our eligibility to use Form S-3 for raising capital, loss of market confidence, delisting of our securities and/or governmental or private actions against us. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with all of these requirements or that the cost of such compliance will not prove to be a substantial competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis our privately held and larger public competitors. Ethical, legal and social concerns surrounding the use of genetic information could reduce demand for our test offerings. Genetic testing has raised ethical issues regarding privacy and the appropriate uses of the resulting information. For these reasons, governmental authorities may call for limits on or regulation of the use of genetic testing or prohibit testing for genetic predisposition to certain conditions, particularly for those that have no known cure. Similarly, such concerns may lead individuals to refuse to use genetics tests even if permissible. Any of these scenarios could reduce the potential markets for our molecular diagnostic products, which reduction could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related To Investment In Our Securities Small company stock prices are especially volatile, and this volatility may depress the price of our stock. The stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, and the market prices of small companies have been highly volatile. We believe that various factors may cause the market price of our stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including, among others, announcements of: •our or our competitors' technological innovations; •supply, manufacturing, or distribution disruptions or other similar problems; •proposed laws regulating participants in the laboratory services industry; •developments in relationships with collaborative partners or customers; •our failure to meet or exceed securities analysts' expectations of our financial results; or •a change in financial estimates or securities analysts' recommendations. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the objects of securities class action litigation. If we become the object of securities class action litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, all of which could materially adversely affect the business and financial results of our business. While warrants to purchase our common stock are outstanding, it may be more difficult to raise additional equity capital. As of December 31, 2010, there were outstanding warrants to purchase approximately 3.7 million shares of our common stock. We may find it more difficult to raise additional equity capital while some or all of these warrants are outstanding. At any time during which these warrants are likely to be exercised, we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, or at all. If we are unable to obtain financing, our business, results of operations, or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected, and we could be forced to curtail or cease operations. 27 Table of Contents Future sales or the potential for future sales of our securities in the public markets may cause the trading price of our common stock to decline and could impair our ability to raise capital through subsequent equity offerings. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other securities in the public markets, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock or other securities to decline and could materially impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional securities. If we raise additional capital in the future through the use of our existing registration statement or if we agree to register privately placed shares for resale on a registration statement, such additional shares would be freely tradable, and, if significant in amount, such sales could further adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The sale of a large number of shares of our common stock also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and at the prices that we deem appropriate. We may fail to meet market expectations because of fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, all of which could cause our stock price to decline. Our revenues and operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter in the future. It is possible that, in future periods, our revenues could fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, all of which could cause the market price of our stock to decline. The following are among the factors that could cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly from period to period: •our unpredictable revenue sources; •the nature, pricing and timing of our and our competitors' products; •changes in our and our competitors' research and development budgets; •expenses related to, and our ability to comply with, governmental regulations of our products and processes; and •expenses related to, and the results of, patent filings and other proceedings relating to intellectual property rights. We anticipate significant fixed expenses due in part to our need to continue to invest in product development. We may be unable to adjust our expenditures if revenues in a particular period fail to meet our expectations, all of which would materially adversely affect our operating results for that period. As a result of these fluctuations, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our financial results will not necessarily be meaningful, and you should not rely on these comparisons as an indication of our future performance. Future declines in the price of our common stock or deterioration in our financial condition could result in the delisting of our common stock from the Nasdaq Capital Market. If the price of our common stock declines below Nasdaq's $1.00 minimum bid price requirement for an extended period of time, or if we fail to maintain a minimum of $2,500,000 in stockholders' equity or $35,000,000 market value of listed securities or $500,000 of net income from continuing operations, our common stock could be delisted by the Nasdaq Capital Market. If our common stock is delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, the market for your shares may be limited, and as a result, you may not be able to sell your shares at an acceptable price, or at all. In addition, a delisting may make it more difficult or expensive for us to raise additional capital in the future. 28 Table of Contents If we are delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, your ability to sell your shares of our common stock would also be limited by the penny stock restrictions, which could further limit the marketability of your shares. If our common stock is delisted, it would come within the definition of "penny stock" as defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and would be covered by Rule 15g-9 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. That Rule imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. For transactions covered by Rule 15g-9, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction prior to the sale. Consequently, Rule 15g-9, if it were to become applicable, would affect the ability or willingness of broker-dealers to sell our securities, and accordingly would affect the ability of stockholders to sell their securities in the public market. These additional procedures could also limit our ability to raise additional capital in the future. Risks Related To Our Split-Off From Acacia Research Corporation Our separation agreements with Acacia require us to assume the past, present and future liabilities related to our business and may be less favorable to us than if they had been negotiated with unaffiliated third parties. We have negotiated and entered into our separation agreements with Acacia at a time when we were a wholly owned subsidiary of Acacia and they were our only shareholder. Had these agreements been negotiated with unaffiliated third-parties, they might have been more favorable to us. Pursuant to the terms of these agreements, we have agreed to indemnify Acacia for, among other matters, all past, present and future liabilities related to our business, and we have assumed these liabilities under the separation agreements. The past, present and future liabilities assumed by us are the same as those previously allocated to us prior to the Split-Off and reflected in our consolidated financial statements included in this report and disclosed by us in previous filings with the SEC as well as by Acacia. Nonetheless, the allocation of assets and liabilities between Acacia and us may not reflect the allocation that would have been reached between two unaffiliated parties. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 