ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Certain factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, in addition to other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, may also become important factors that adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We achieved profitability in our last fiscal year after incurring significant net losses from our inception through fiscal 2011, but we may not be able to maintain profitability on an annual basis in the future. We achieved profitability in 2012 after incurring significant net losses from our inception through 2011, but we cannot predict whether we will be able to maintain profitability on an annual basis in the future. We had net income of $23.5 million in 2012, including a $14.2 million income tax benefit resulting from our acquisition of ID Analytics. We had net losses of $4.3 million and $15.4 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively. Our recent growth, including our growth in revenue and customer base, may not be sustainable or may decrease, and we may not generate sufficient revenue to maintain annual profitability. Moreover, we expect to continue to make significant expenditures to maintain and expand our business, operate as a consolidated entity with ID Analytics, and transition to operating as a public company. These increased expenditures will make it more difficult for us to maintain future annual profitability. Our ability to maintain annual profitability depends on a number of factors, including our ability to attract and service customers on a profitable basis. If we are unable to maintain annual profitability, we may not be able to execute our business plan, our prospects may be harmed, and our stock price could be materially and adversely affected. If the security of confidential information used in connection with our services is breached or otherwise subject to unauthorized access, our reputation and business may be materially harmed. Our services require us to collect, store, use, and transmit significant amounts of confidential information, including personally identifiable information, credit card information, and other critical data. We employ a range of information technology solutions, controls, procedures, and processes designed to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of our critical assets, including our data and information technology systems. While we 15 Table of Contents engage in a number of measures aimed to protect against security breaches and to minimize problems if a data breach were to occur, our information technology systems and infrastructure may be vulnerable to damage, compromise, disruption, and shutdown due to attacks or breaches by hackers or due to other circumstances, such as employee error or malfeasance or technology malfunction. The occurrence of any of these events, as well as a failure to promptly remedy these events should they occur, could compromise our systems, and the information stored in our systems could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost, stolen, or damaged. Any such circumstance could adversely affect our ability to attract and maintain customers as well as strategic partnerships, cause us to suffer negative publicity, and subject us to legal claims and liabilities or regulatory penalties. In addition, unauthorized parties might alter information in our databases, which would adversely affect both the reliability of that information and our ability to market and perform our services. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are difficult to recognize and react to effectively and are constantly evolving. We may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive or reactive measures. Several recent, highly publicized data security breaches at other companies have heightened consumer awareness of this issue and may embolden individuals or groups to target our systems or those of our strategic partners or enterprise customers. Security technologies and information, including encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties, are a key aspect of our security measures designed to secure our critical assets. While we routinely seek to update these technologies and information, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, or other developments may result in the technology we use becoming obsolete, breached, or compromised and cause us to incur additional expenses associated with upgrading our security systems. In addition, security information provided to us by third parties may be inaccurate, incomplete, or outdated, which could cause us to make misinformed security decisions and could materially and adversely affect our business. Under payment card rules and our contracts with our card processors, we could be liable to the payment card issuing banks for their cost of issuing new cards and related expenses if there is a breach of payment card information that we store. In addition, if we fail to follow payment card industry security standards, even if there is no compromise of customer information, we could incur significant fines or lose our ability to give customers the option of using payment cards to fund their payments or pay their fees. If we were unable to accept payment cards, our business would be materially harmed. Many states have enacted laws requiring companies to notify individuals of data security breaches involving their personal data. In the United States, federal and state laws provide for over 45 laws and notification regimes, all of which we are subject to, and additional requirements may be instituted in the future. In the event of a data security breach, these mandatory disclosures often lead to widespread negative publicity. In addition, complying with such numerous and complex regulations in the event of a data security breach is often expensive, difficult, and time consuming, and the failure to comply with these regulations could subject us to regulatory scrutiny and additional liability and harm our reputation. Any actual or perceived security breach, whether successful or not and whether or not attributable to the failure of our services or our information technology systems, as well as our failure to promptly and appropriately react to a breach, would likely harm our reputation, adversely affect market perception of our services, and cause the loss of customers and strategic partnerships. Our property and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for losses or failures that may occur. Our third-party insurance coverage will vary from time to time in both type and amount depending on availability, cost, and our decisions with respect to risk retention. Our business is highly dependent upon our brand recognition and reputation, and the failure to maintain or enhance our brand recognition or reputation would likely have a material adverse effect on our business. Our brand recognition and reputation are critical aspects of our business. We believe that maintaining and further enhancing our LifeLock and ID Analytics brands as well as our reputation will be critical to retaining 16 Table of Contents existing customers and attracting new customers. We also believe that the importance of our brand recognition and reputation will continue to increase as competition in our markets continues to develop. Our success in this area will be dependent on a wide range of factors, some of which are out of our control, including the following: • the efficacy of our marketing efforts; • our ability to retain existing and obtain new customers and strategic partners; • the quality and perceived value of our services; • actions of our competitors, our strategic partners, and other third parties; • positive or negative publicity, including material on the Internet; • regulatory and other governmental related developments; and • litigation related developments. Sales and marketing expenses have historically been our largest operating expense, and we anticipate these expenses will continue to increase in the foreseeable future as we continue to seek to grow our business and customer base and enhance our brand. These brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenue and the efficacy of these activities will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to do the following: • determine the appropriate creative message and media mix for advertising, marketing, and promotional expenditures; • select the right markets, media, and specific media vehicles in which to advertise; • identify the most effective and efficient level of spending in each market, media, and specific media vehicle; and • effectively manage marketing costs, including creative and media expenses, in order to maintain acceptable customer acquisition costs. Increases in the pricing of one or more of our marketing and advertising channels could increase our marketing and advertising expenses or cause us to choose less expensive but possibly less effective marketing and advertising channels. If we implement new marketing and advertising strategies, we may utilize marketing and advertising channels with significantly higher costs than our current channels, which in turn could adversely affect our operating results. Implementing new marketing and advertising strategies also would increase the risk of devoting significant capital and other resources to endeavors that do not prove to be cost effective. Further, we may over time become disproportionately reliant on one channel or strategic partner, which could limit our marketing and advertising flexibility and increase our operating expenses. We also may incur marketing and advertising expenses significantly in advance of the time we anticipate recognizing revenue associated with such expenses, and our marketing and advertising expenditures may not generate sufficient levels of brand awareness or result in increased revenue. Even if our marketing and advertising expenses result in increased revenue, the increase might not offset our related expenditures. If we are unable to maintain our marketing and advertising channels on cost-effective terms or replace or supplement existing marketing and advertising channels with similarly or more effective channels, our marketing and advertising expenses could increase substantially, our customer base could be adversely affected, and our business, operating results, financial condition, and reputation could suffer. Furthermore, negative publicity, whether or not justified, relating to events or activities attributed to us, our employees, our strategic partners, our affiliates, or others associated with any of these parties, may tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brands. Damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity may reduce demand for our services and have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Moreover, any attempts to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brands may be costly and time consuming, and such efforts may not ultimately be successful. 17 Table of Contents We face intense competition, and we may not be able to compete effectively, which could reduce demand for our services and adversely affect our business, growth, reputation, revenue, and market share. We operate in a highly competitive business environment. Our primary competitors are the credit bureaus that include Experian, Equifax, and TransUnion, as well as others, such as Affinion, Early Warning Systems, Intersections, and LexisNexis. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution, and other resources than we possess that afford them competitive advantages. As a result, they may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, and sale of services, to deliver competitive services at lower prices or for free, and to introduce new solutions and respond to market developments and customer requirements more quickly than we can. In addition, some of our competitors may have data that we do not have or cannot obtain without difficulty. Any of these factors could reduce our growth, revenue, access to valuable data, or market share. Our ability to compete successfully in our markets depends on a number of factors, both within and outside our control. Some of these factors include the following: • access to a breadth of identity and consumer transaction data; • breadth and effectiveness of service offerings, including designing and introducing new services; • brand recognition; • technology; • effectiveness and cost-efficiency of customer acquisition; • customer satisfaction; • price; • quality and reliability of customer service; and • accurate identification of appropriate target markets for our business. Any failure by us to compete successfully in any one of these or similar areas may reduce the demand for our services and the robustness of the LifeLock ecosystem, as well as adversely affect our business, growth, reputation, revenue, and market share. Moreover, new competitors, alliances among our competitors, or new service introductions by our competitors may emerge and potentially adversely affect our business and prospects. We could lose our access to data sources, which could cause us competitive harm and have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our services depend extensively upon continued access to and receipt of data from external sources, including data received from customers and fulfillment partners. Our data providers could stop providing data, provide untimely data, or increase the costs for their data for a variety of reasons, including a perception that our systems are insecure as a result of a data security breach, budgetary constraints, a desire to generate additional revenue, or for competitive reasons. In addition, upon the termination of the contracts we have with certain of our enterprise customers, we are required to remove from our repositories the data contributed by and through those customers. We could also become subject to legislative, regulatory, or judicial restrictions or mandates on the collection, disclosure, or use of such data, in particular if such data is not collected by our providers in a way that allows us to legally use the data. If we were to lose access to a substantial number of data sources or certain key data sources or certain data already in the LifeLock ecosystem, or if our access or use were restricted or became less economical or desirable, our ability to provide our services and the efficacy and attractiveness of the LifeLock ecosystem could be negatively affected, and this would adversely affect us from a competitive standpoint. This would also adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. We may not be successful in maintaining our relationships with these external data source providers and may not be able to 18 Table of Contents continue to obtain data from them on acceptable terms or at all. Furthermore, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain data from alternative or additional sources if our current sources become unavailable. We may lose customers and significant revenue and fail to attract new customers if our existing services become less desirable or obsolete, or if we fail to develop and introduce new services with broad appeal or fail to do so in a timely or cost-effective manner. The introduction of new services by competitors, the emergence of new industry standards, or the development of new technologies could render our existing or future services less desirable or obsolete. In addition, professional thieves continue to develop more sophisticated and creative methods to steal personal and financial information as consumers and enterprises today become increasingly interconnected and engage in a large number of daily activities that involve personal or financial information. Consequently, our financial performance and growth depends upon our ability to enhance and improve our existing services, develop and successfully introduce new services that generate customer interest, and sell our services in new markets. As our existing services mature, encouraging customers to purchase enhancements or upgrades becomes more challenging unless new service offerings provide features and functionality that have meaningful incremental value. To achieve market acceptance for our services, we must effectively anticipate and offer services that meet changing customer demands in a timely manner. Customers may require features and capabilities that our current services lack. In addition, any new markets in which we attempt to sell our services, including new industries, countries, or regions, may not be receptive to our service offerings. If we fail to enhance our existing services in a timely and cost-effective manner, successfully develop and introduce new services, or sell our services in new markets, our ability to retain our existing or attract new customers and our ability to create or increase demand for our services could be harmed, which would have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. We will be required to make significant investments in developing new services. We also will be subject to all of the risks inherent in the development of new services, including unanticipated technical or other development problems, which could result in material delays in the launch and acceptance of the services or significantly increased costs. In some cases, we may expend a significant amount of resources and management attention on service offerings that do not ultimately succeed in their markets. Because new service offerings are inherently risky, they may not be successful and may harm our operating results and financial condition. The number of people who access services through devices other than personal computers, including mobile phones, smartphones, handheld computers, and tablets, has increased dramatically in recent years. We have limited experience to date in developing services for users of these alternative devices, and versions of our services developed for these devices may not be attractive to customers. As new devices, platforms, and technologies are continually being released, it is difficult to predict the problems we may encounter in developing versions of our services for use with these devices, platforms, and technologies, and we may need to devote significant resources to the creation, support, and maintenance of such offerings. If we are slow to develop services and technologies that are compatible with these devices, platforms, and technologies, or if our competitors are able to achieve those results more quickly than us, we will fail to capture a significant share of an increasingly important portion of the market for online services, which could adversely affect our business. Our revenue and operating results depend significantly on our ability to retain our existing customers, and any decline in our retention rates will harm our future revenue and operating results. Our revenue and operating results depend significantly on our ability to retain our existing customers. In our consumer business from which we derive a significant majority of our revenue, we sell our services to our members on a monthly or annual subscription basis. Our members may cancel their membership with us at any time without penalty. In our enterprise business, our customers have no obligation to renew their agreements with us after the contractual term expires, and approximately half of our direct enterprise customers do not have monthly transaction minimums and, accordingly, may reduce their utilization of our services during the 19 Table of Contents contractual term. We therefore may be unable to retain our existing members and enterprise customers on the same or on more profitable terms, if at all, and may generate lower revenue as a result of less utilization of our services by our enterprise customers. In addition, we may not be able to predict or anticipate accurately future trends in customer retention or enterprise customer utilization or effectively respond to such trends. Our customer retention rates and enterprise customer utilization may decline or fluctuate due to a variety of factors, including the following: • our customers’ levels of satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our services; • the quality, breadth, and prices of our services; • our general reputation and events impacting that reputation; • the services and related pricing offered by our competitors; • our customer service and responsiveness to any customer complaints; • customer dissatisfaction if they do not receive the full benefit of our services due to their failure to provide all relevant data; • customer dissatisfaction with the methods or extent of our remediation services; • our guarantee may not meet our customers’ expectations; and • changes in our target customers’ spending levels as a result of general economic conditions or other factors. If we do not retain our existing customers, our revenue may grow more slowly than expected or decline, and our operating results and gross margins will be harmed. In addition, our business and operating results may be harmed if we are unable to increase our retention rates. We also must continually add new customers both to replace customers who cancel or elect not to renew their agreements with us and to grow our business beyond our current customer base. If we are unable to attract new customers in numbers greater than the percentage of customers who cancel or elect not to renew their agreements with us, which we call “churn,” our customer base will decrease, and our business, operating results, and financial condition will be adversely affected. Churn negatively impacts the predictability of our subscription revenue model and the efficacy and attractiveness of the LifeLock ecosystem by decreasing the amount of data being added to our data repositories. We depend on strategic partners in our consumer business, and our inability to maintain our existing and secure new relationships with strategic partners could harm our revenue and operating results. We have derived, and intend to continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenue from members who subscribe to our consumer services through one of our strategic partners. In 2012, we derived just under half of our gross new members from our strategic partner distribution channels. These distribution channels involve various risks, including the following: • we may be unable to maintain or secure favorable relationships with strategic partners; • our strategic partners may not be successful in expanding our membership base; • our strategic partners may seek to renegotiate the economic terms of our relationships; • our strategic partners may terminate their relationships with us; • bad publicity and other issues faced by our strategic partners could negatively impact us; and • our strategic partners, some of which already compete with us, may present increased competition for us in the future. 20 Table of Contents Our inability to maintain our existing and secure new relationships with strategic partners could harm our revenue and operating results. Many of our key strategic partnerships are governed by agreements that may be terminated without cause and without penalty by our strategic partners upon notice of as few as 30 days. Under many of our agreements with strategic partners, our partners may cease or reduce their marketing of our services at their discretion, which may cause us to lose access to prospective members and significantly reduce our revenue and operating results. Some of our strategic partners possess significant resources and advanced technical abilities. Some offer services that are competitive with our services and more may do so in the future, either alone or in collaboration with other competitors. Those strategic partners could give a higher priority to competing services or decide not to continue to offer our services at all. If any of our strategic partners discontinue or reduce the sale or marketing of our services, promote competitive services, or, either independently or jointly with others, develop and market services that compete with our services, our business and operating results may be harmed. In addition, some of our strategic partners may experience financial or other difficulties, causing our revenue through those strategic partners to decline, which would adversely affect our operating results. In order for us to implement our business strategy and grow our revenue, we must effectively manage and expand our relationships with qualified strategic partners. We expend significant time and resources in attracting qualified strategic partners, training those partners in our technology and service offerings, and then maintaining relationships with those partners. In order to continue to develop and expand our distribution channels, we must continue to scale and improve our processes and procedures that support our strategic partnerships. Those processes and procedures could become increasingly complex and difficult to manage. Our competitors also use arrangements with strategic partners, and it could be more difficult for us to maintain and expand our distribution channels if they are more successful in attracting strategic partners or enter into exclusive relationships with strategic partners. If we fail to maintain our existing or secure new relationships with strategic partners, our business will be harmed. A limited number of enterprise customers provide a significant portion of our enterprise revenue, and our inability to retain these customers or attract new customers could harm our revenue and operating results and the efficacy and attractiveness of the LifeLock ecosystem. ID Analytics has historically derived, and continues to derive, a significant portion of its revenue from a limited number of enterprise customers. For example, in 2010, 2011, and 2012, sales derived through ID Analytics’ top ten customers accounted for 77%, 70%, and 65%, respectively, of ID Analytics’ revenue for those periods. Some of these customers also provide services that compete with our consumer services and, accordingly, may seek alternative identity risk assessment and fraud protection services in the future. The loss of several of our enterprise customers, or of any of our large enterprise customers, could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations, as well as the efficacy and attractiveness of the LifeLock ecosystem. In addition, new customer acquisition in our enterprise business is often a lengthy process requiring significant up-front investment. Accordingly, we may devote substantial resources in an effort to attract new enterprise customers that may not result in customer engagements or lead to an increase in revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we experience system failures or interruptions in our telecommunications or information technology infrastructure, it may impair the availability of our services, our revenue could decrease, and our reputation could be harmed. Our operations depend upon our ability to protect the telecommunications and information technology systems utilized in our services against damage or system interruptions from natural disasters, technical failures, 21 Table of Contents human error, and other events. We send and receive credit and other data, as well as key communications to and from our members, electronically, and this delivery method is susceptible to damage, delay, or inaccuracy. A portion of our business involves telephonic customer service and online enrollments, which depends upon the data generated from our computer systems. Unanticipated problems with our telecommunications and information technology systems may result in data loss, which could interrupt our operations. Our telecommunications or information technology infrastructure upon which we rely also may be vulnerable to computer viruses, hackers, or other disruptions. We rely on our network and data center infrastructure and internal technology systems for many of our development, operational, support, sales, accounting, and financial reporting activities, the failure of which could disrupt our business operations and result in a loss of revenue and damage to our reputation. We rely on our network and data center infrastructure and internal technology systems for many of our development, operational, support, sales, accounting, and financial reporting activities. We routinely invest resources to update and improve these systems and environments with the goal of better meeting the existing, as well as the growing and changing requirements of our customers. If we experience prolonged delays or unforeseen difficulties in updating and upgrading our systems and architecture, we may experience outages and may not be able to deliver certain service offerings and develop new service offerings and enhancements that we need to remain competitive. Such improvements and upgrades often are complex, costly, and time consuming. In addition, such improvements can be challenging to integrate with our existing technology systems or may result in problems with our existing technology systems. Unsuccessful implementation of hardware or software updates and improvements could result in outages, disruption in our business operations, loss of revenue, or damage to our reputation. Our systems and data are hosted by a third-party data center. If the third-party data center experiences any disruptions, outages, or catastrophes, it could disrupt our business and result in a loss of customers, loss of revenue, or damage to our reputation. Natural or man-made disasters and other similar events may significantly disrupt our and our strategic partners’ or service providers’ businesses, and negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our enterprise business headquarters and the back-up data center for our enterprise business are located in San Diego, California, which is situated on or near earthquake fault lines. Our primary data center for our enterprise business was relocated from Atlanta, Georgia, to Las Vegas, Nevada in the fourth quarter of 2012. In our consumer business, we have data centers in Rancho Cordova, California and Scottsdale, Arizona. Any of our or our strategic partners’ or service providers’ facilities may be harmed or rendered inoperable by natural or man-made disasters, including earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, wildfires, floods, nuclear disasters, acts of terrorism or other criminal activities, infectious disease outbreaks, and power outages, which may render it difficult or impossible for us or our strategic partners or service providers to operate our respective businesses for some period of time. Our and our strategic partners’ or service providers’ facilities would likely be costly to repair or replace, and any such efforts would likely require substantial time. Any disruptions in our or our strategic partners’ or service providers’ operations could negatively impact our business and results of operations and harm our reputation. In addition, we and our strategic partners or service providers may not carry business insurance or may not carry sufficient business insurance to compensate for losses that may occur. Any such losses or damages could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Changes in the economy may significantly affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our business may be affected by changes in the economic environment. Our services, particularly our consumer services, are discretionary purchases, and members may reduce or eliminate their discretionary spending on our services during a difficult economic environment, such as currently exists. Although we have not yet experienced a material increase in membership cancellations or a material reduction in our member 22 Table of Contents retention rate, we may experience such an increase or reduction in the future, especially in the event of a prolonged recessionary period or a worsening of current conditions. In addition, during an economic downturn consumers may experience a decline in their credit, which may result in less demand for our services. Conversely, consumers may spend more time using the Internet during an economic downturn and may have less time for our services in a period of economic growth. In addition, media prices may increase in a period of economic growth, which could significantly increase our marketing and advertising expenses. As a result, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be significantly affected by changes in the economic environment. Our rapid development and growth in an evolving industry make evaluating our business and future prospects difficult and may increase the risk of an investment in our company. Our business, prospects, and growth potential must be considered in light of the risks, expenses, delays, difficulties, uncertainties, and other challenges encountered by companies that are rapidly developing and are experiencing rapid growth in evolving industries. We may be unsuccessful in addressing the various challenges we may encounter. Our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, reputation, and growth potential as well as the value of an investment in our company. Despite our historic predictable subscription revenue model, as a result of our rapid development and growth in an evolving industry, it is difficult to accurately forecast our revenue and plan our operating expenses, and we have limited insight into trends that may emerge and affect our business. In the event that our actual results differ from our forecasts or we adjust our forecasts in future periods, our operating results and financial position could be materially and adversely affected and our stock price could decline. These risks are increased by our acquisition of ID Analytics and will be further increased by any acquisitions we may make in the future. If we are unable to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, the accuracy and timeliness of our financial reporting may be adversely affected. In connection with the filing of the registration statement for our IPO, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, that creates a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected in a timely manner. The material weakness related to our calculation of earnings per share for the three months ended March 31, 2012. We developed a plan to remediate this material weakness and implemented a process for documenting and reviewing all of our equity instruments and the effect of those instruments on our calculation of earnings per share. After implementing new internal controls and procedures, we concluded that we have remediated the previously identified material weakness as of December 31, 2012. Although we believe we have addressed the previously identified material weakness, the measures we have taken may not be effective, and we may not be able to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future. We recently initiated steps to implement, evaluate, and test our internal control over financial reporting. We have not completed these procedures and until these controls are fully implemented and tested there is a possibility that a material misstatement would not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. We are not currently required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”), and are therefore not currently required to make an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls. Our first assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls will be included within our Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2013. During the evaluation and testing processes, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. 23 Table of Contents In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting beginning with our annual report on Form 10-K following the later of the year following our first annual report required by the SEC and the date on which we are no longer an “emerging growth company.” We will remain an emerging growth company until the earlier of (1) the last day of the fiscal year (a) following the fifth anniversary of the completion of our IPO, (b) in which we have total annual gross revenue of at least $1.0 billion, or (c) in which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer, which means the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the prior June 30th, and (2) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt during the prior three-year period. Even if our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is qualified if it is not satisfied with our controls or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated, or reviewed, or if it interprets the relevant requirements differently from us. Material weaknesses may be identified during the audit process or at other times. During the course of the evaluation, documentation, or attestation, we or our independent registered public accounting firm may identify weaknesses and deficiencies that we may not be able to remedy in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for compliance with Section 404. Our reporting obligations as a public company will place a significant strain on our management and our operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. Prior to becoming a public company, we were a private company with limited accounting personnel and other resources with which to address our internal controls and procedures. If we fail to timely achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to produce reliable financial reports or help prevent fraud. Our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could prevent us from filing our periodic reports on a timely basis, which could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, harm our business, and negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. The failure to manage our growth may damage our brand recognition and reputation and harm our business and operating results. We have experienced rapid growth in a relatively short period of time. Our revenue grew from $18.9 million in 2007 to $276.4 million in 2012, and our members increased from approximately 30,000 on December 31, 2006 to approximately 2.5 million on December 31, 2012. In addition, our acquisition of ID Analytics in March 2012 increased our revenue, facilities, and number of employees, and we will likely hire additional employees as we transition into a public company. We must successfully manage our growth to achieve our objectives. Our ability to effectively manage any significant growth of our business will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to do the following: • introduce new service offerings that are attractive to our customers and enhance our gross margins; • develop and pursue cost-effective marketing and advertising campaigns that attract new customers; • satisfy existing and attract new customers; • hire, train, retain, and motivate additional employees; • enhance our operational, financial, and management systems; • enhance our intellectual property rights; • effectively manage and maintain our corporate culture; and • make sound business decisions in light of the scrutiny associated with operating as a public company. These enhancements and improvements will require significant expenditures and allocation of valuable management and employee resources, and our growth will continue to place a strain on our operational, financial, and management infrastructure. Our future financial performance and our ability to execute on our business plan will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively manage any future growth. There are no guarantees we will be 24 Table of Contents able to do so in an efficient or timely manner, or at all. Our failure to effectively manage growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, operating results, financial condition, and prospects. Any future acquisitions that we undertake could disrupt our business, harm our operating results, and dilute stockholder value. From time to time, we may review opportunities to acquire other businesses or other assets that would expand the breadth of services that we offer, strengthen our distribution channels, enhance our intellectual property and technological know-how, augment the LifeLock ecosystem and our data repositories, or otherwise offer potential growth opportunities. For example, in March 2012, we completed our acquisition of ID Analytics. We may in the future be unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates or to complete the acquisition of candidates that we identify. Increased competition for acquisition candidates or increased asking prices by acquisition candidates may increase purchase prices for acquisitions to levels beyond our financial capability or to levels that would not result in the returns required by our acquisition criteria. Acquisitions also may become more difficult in the future as we or others, including our competitors, acquire the most attractive candidates. Unforeseen expenses, difficulties, and delays that we may encounter in connection with rapid expansion through acquisitions could inhibit our growth and negatively impact our operating results. Our ability to grow through acquisitions will depend upon various factors, including the following: • the availability of suitable acquisition candidates at attractive purchase prices; • the ability to compete effectively for available acquisition opportunities; • the availability of cash resources, borrowing capacity, or stock at favorable price levels to provide required purchase prices in acquisitions; • diversion of management’s attention to acquisition efforts; and • the ability to obtain any requisite governmental or other approvals. As a part of our acquisition strategy, we frequently engage in acquisition discussions. In connection with these discussions, we and potential acquisition candidates often exchange confidential operational and financial information, conduct due diligence inquiries, and consider the structure, terms, and conditions of the potential acquisition. Potential acquisition discussions frequently take place over a long period of time and involve difficult business integration and other issues, including, in some cases, management succession and related matters. As a result of these and other factors, a number of potential acquisitions that from time to time appear likely to occur do not result in binding legal agreements and are not consummated, despite the expenditure of time and resources, which affect our results. Any borrowings made to finance future acquisitions could make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our operating results, a downturn in economic conditions, or increases in interest rates on borrowings. If our cash flow from operating activities is insufficient to meet our debt service requirements, we could be required to sell additional equity securities, refinance our obligations, or dispose of assets in order to meet our debt service requirements. Adequate financing may not be available if and when we need it or may not be available on terms acceptable to us. The failure to obtain sufficient financing on favorable terms and conditions could have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects and our business, financial condition, and operating results. If we finance any future acquisitions in whole or in part through the issuance of common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for common stock, existing stockholders will experience dilution in the voting power of their common stock and earnings per share could be negatively impacted. The extent to which we will be able or willing to use our common stock for acquisitions will depend on the market price of our common stock from time to time and the willingness of potential sellers to accept our common stock as full or partial consideration for the sale of their businesses. Our inability to use our common stock as consideration, to generate cash from operations, or to obtain additional funding through debt or equity financings in order to pursue an acquisition program could materially limit our growth. 25 Table of Contents Any acquisitions that we undertake could be difficult to integrate, which could disrupt and harm our business. In order to pursue a successful acquisition strategy, we will need to integrate the operations of any acquired businesses into our operations, including centralizing certain functions and pursuing programs and processes aimed at leveraging our revenue and growth opportunities. The integration of the management, operations, and facilities of acquired businesses with our own could involve difficulties, which could adversely affect our growth rate and operating results. Our experience in acquiring other businesses is limited. Our only acquisition to date has been the acquisition of ID Analytics in March 2012. We may not realize all of the benefits anticipated with that acquisition and may experience unanticipated detriments as a result of that acquisition. We are in the process of finalizing our integration with ID Analytics. As with any acquisition, we may be unable to complete effectively an integration of the management, operations, facilities, and accounting and information systems of the acquired business with our own; to manage efficiently the combined operations of the acquired business with our operations; to achieve our operating, growth, and performance goals for the acquired business; to achieve additional revenue as a result of our expanded operations; or to achieve operating efficiencies or otherwise realize cost savings as a result of anticipated acquisition synergies. The integration of acquired businesses, including our acquisition of ID Analytics, involves numerous risks, including the following: • integrating the different businesses, operations, locations, and technologies; • communicating to customers our perceived benefits of the acquisition and addressing any related concerns they might have; • the potential disruption of our core businesses; • risks associated with entering markets and businesses in which we have little or no prior experience; • diversion of management’s attention from our core businesses; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • failure to retain key customers, suppliers, or personnel of acquired businesses; • adjusting to changes in key personnel post-combination; • adjusting to increased governmental regulations; • managing the varying intellectual property protection strategies and other activities of the acquired company; • the potential strain on our financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures; • greater than anticipated costs and expenses related to the integration of the acquired business with our business; • potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired company; • challenges inherent in effectively managing an increased number of employees in diverse locations; • failure of acquired businesses to achieve expected results; • the risk of impairment charges related to potential write-downs of acquired assets in future acquisitions; and • difficulty of establishing uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies, and information systems. We may not succeed in addressing these or other risks or any other problems encountered in connection with the integration of any acquired business. The inability to integrate successfully the operations, technology, and personnel of any acquired business, or any significant delay in achieving integration, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, reputation, and prospects, and on the market price of our common stock. 26 Table of Contents We are subject to extensive government regulation, which could impede our ability to market and provide our services and have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business and the information we use in our business, augmented by our acquisition of ID Analytics, is subject to a wide variety of federal, state, and local laws and regulations, including the FCRA, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the FTC Act and comparable state laws that are patterned after the FTC Act, and other laws governing credit information, consumer privacy and marketing, and servicing of consumer products and services. In addition, our business is subject to the FTC Order, as well as the companion orders with 35 states’ attorneys general that we entered into in March 2010. These laws, regulations, and consent decrees cover, among other things, advertising, automatic subscription renewal, broadband residential Internet access, consumer protection, content, copyrights, credit card processing procedures, data protection, distribution, electronic contracts, member privacy, pricing, sales and other procedures, tariffs, and taxation. In addition, it is unclear how existing laws and regulations governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, and personal privacy apply to the Internet. We incur significant costs to operate our business and monitor our compliance with these laws, regulations, and consent decrees. Any of these laws and regulations is subject to revision, and we cannot predict the impact of such changes on our business. Any changes to the existing applicable laws or regulations, or any determination that other laws or regulations are applicable to us, could increase our costs or impede our ability to provide our services to our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, and prospects. In addition, various governmental agencies have the authority to commence investigations and enforcement actions under these laws, regulations, and consent decrees, and private citizens also may bring actions, including class action litigation, under some of these laws and regulations. Responding to such investigations and actions may cause us to incur significant expenses and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. Any determination that we have violated any of these laws, regulations, or consent decrees may result in liability for fines, damages, or other penalties or require us to make changes to our services and business practices, and cause us to lose customers, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, financial condition, and prospects. On December 26, 2012, ID Analytics, along with eight other companies, received an information request from the FTC in conjunction with the FTC’s policy study of the operation of the data broker industry. ID Analytics was advised that this request is not an investigation of its business practices but will be the basis of consideration by the FTC whether to recommend to the Congress a legislative extension of FCRA-based consumer safeguards and protections to the use of consumer personal information in the non-FCRA context. Although ID Analytics believes that it is not engaged in data broker activities in any manner, ID Analytics has indicated to the FTC that it will cooperate with the FTC’s study efforts by responding fully to the FTC’s information requests. Responding to these information requests may cause us to incur significant expenses and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. In addition, any determination that ID Analytics is engaged in data broker activities, or any future legislation or additional regulation that is enacted as a result of the FTC’s study on data brokers, may result in increased compliance costs or require us to make changes to our services and business practices, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, financial condition, and prospects. Marketing laws and regulations may materially limit our ability to offer our services to members. We market our consumer services through a variety of marketing channels, including mass media, direct mail campaigns, online display advertising, paid search and search-engine optimization, and inbound customer service and account activation calls. These channels are subject to both federal and state laws and regulations. Federal and state laws and regulations may limit our ability to market to new members or offer additional services to existing members, which may have a material adverse effect on our ability to sell our services. 27 Table of Contents The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act authorizes the newly created Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection to adopt rules and take actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business. In 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) was enacted to reform the practices in the financial services industry. Title X of the Dodd-Frank Act established the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (the “CFPB”) to protect consumers from abusive financial services practices. Among other things, the CFPB has broad authority to write rules affecting the business of credit reporting companies as well as to supervise, conduct examinations of, and enforce compliance as to federal consumer financial protection laws and regulations with respect to certain “non-depository covered persons” determined by the CFPB to be “larger participants” that offer consumer financial products and services. The CFPB has broad regulatory, supervisory, and enforcement powers and may exercise authority with respect to our services, or the marketing and servicing of those services, by overseeing our financial institution or credit reporting agency customers and suppliers, or by otherwise exercising its supervisory, regulatory, or enforcement authority over consumer financial products and services. On July 20, 2012, the CFPB issued a final rule that became effective on September 30, 2012, that includes certain of our credit reporting agency customers and suppliers that meet the definition of a “larger participant” under the CFPB nonbank supervision program. The CFPB also created a section of its consumer complaint database for credit reporting complaints that became effective on October 22, 2012. Further, we believe that the CFPB has commenced review of certain of our financial institution customers, including their offering of some or all fee-based products. These or other actions by the CFPB could cause our credit agency customers and suppliers and financial institution customers to limit or change their business activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. It is not certain whether the CFPB has, or will seek to exercise, supervisory or other authority directly over us or our services. Supervision and regulation of us or our enterprise customers by the CFPB could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results, including the costs to make changes that may be required by us, our enterprise customers, or our strategic partners, and the costs of responding to examinations by the CFPB. In addition, the costs of responding to or defending against any enforcement action that may be brought by the CFPB, and any liability that we may incur, may have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In the future, the CFPB may choose to enact new rules or amend currently existing rules which could further extend the scope of its jurisdiction with respect to our business activities or those of our customers and suppliers. Changes in legislation or regulations governing consumer privacy may affect our ability to collect, distribute, and use personally identifiable information. There has been increasing public concern about the use of personally identifiable information. As a result, many federal, state, and foreign government bodies and agencies have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations regarding the collection, disclosure, and use of personally identifiable information. In addition to government regulation, privacy advocates and industry groups may propose new and different self-regulatory standards that apply to us. Because the interpretation and application of privacy and data protection laws are still uncertain, it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our existing data management practices or the features of our services. If this is the case, in addition to the possibility of fines, lawsuits, and other claims, we could be required to fundamentally change our business activities and practices or modify our service offerings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any inability to adequately address privacy concerns, even if unfounded, or comply with applicable privacy or data protection laws, regulations, and policies, could result in additional cost and liability to us, damage our reputation, affect our ability to attract new customers and maintain relationships with our existing customers, and adversely affect our business. Furthermore, the costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, the laws, regulations, and policies that are applicable to the businesses of our enterprise customers and strategic partners may limit the use and adoption of, and reduce the overall demand for, our services. Privacy concerns, whether valid or not, may inhibit market adoption of our services. 28 Table of Contents Laws requiring the free issuance of credit reports by credit reporting agencies, and other services that must be provided by credit reporting agencies, could impede our ability to obtain new members or retain existing members and could have a material adverse effect on our business. The Fair Credit Reporting Act provides consumers the ability to receive one free consumer credit report per year from each major consumer credit reporting agency and requires each major consumer credit reporting agency to provide the consumer a credit score along with the consumer’s credit report for a reasonable fee as determined by the FTC. In addition, the Fair Credit Reporting Act and state laws give consumers other rights with respect to the protection of their credit files at the credit reporting agencies. For example, the Fair Credit Reporting Act gives consumers the right to place “fraud alerts” at the credit reporting agencies, and the laws in approximately 40 states give consumers the right to place “freezes” to block access to their credit files. The rights of consumers to obtain free annual credit reports and credit scores from consumer reporting agencies, and to place fraud alerts and credit freezes directly with them, could cause consumers to perceive that the value of our services is reduced or replaced by those benefits, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The FTC Order, as well as the companion orders with 35 states’ attorneys general, imposes on us injunctive provisions that could subject us to additional injunctive and monetary remedies. In March 2010, we and Todd Davis, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, entered into the FTC Order. The FTC Order was the result of a settlement of the allegations by the FTC that certain of our advertising and marketing practices constituted deceptive acts or practices in violation of the FTC Act, which settlement made no admission as to the allegations related to such practices. The FTC Order imposes on us and Mr. Davis certain injunctive provisions relating to our advertising and marketing of our identity theft protection services, such as enjoining us from making any misrepresentation of “the means, methods, procedures, effects, effectiveness, coverage, or scope of” our identity theft protection services. However, the bulk of the more specific injunctive provisions have no direct impact on the advertising and marketing of our current services because we have made significant changes in the nature of the services we offer to consumers since the investigation by the FTC in 2007 and 2008, including our adoption of new technology that permits us to provide proactive protection against identity theft and identity fraud. The FTC investigation of our advertising and marketing activities occurred during the time that we relied significantly on the receipt of fraud alerts from the credit reporting agencies for our members. The FTC believed that such alerts had inherent limitations in terms of coverage, scope, and timeliness. Many of the allegations in the FTC complaint, which accompanied the FTC Order, related to the inherent limitations of using credit report fraud alerts as the foundation for identity theft protection. Because the injunctive provisions in the FTC Order are tied to these complaint allegations, these injunctive provisions similarly relate significantly to our previous reliance on credit report fraud alerts as reflected in our advertising and marketing claims. The FTC Order also imposes on us and Mr. Davis certain injunctive provisions relating to our data security for members’ personally identifiable information. At the same time, we also entered into companion orders with 35 states’ attorneys general that impose on us similar injunctive provisions as the FTC Order relating to our advertising and marketing of our identity theft protection services. Our or Mr. Davis’ failure to comply with these injunctive provisions could subject us to additional injunctive and monetary remedies as provided for by federal and state law. In addition, the FTC Order imposes on us and Mr. Davis certain compliance requirements, including the delivery of an annual compliance report. We and Mr. Davis have timely submitted these annual compliance reports, but the FTC has not accepted or approved them to date. If the FTC were to find that we or Mr. Davis have not complied with the requirements in the FTC Order, we could be subject to additional penalties and our business could be negatively impacted. The FTC Order provided for a consumer redress payment of $11 million, which we made in 2010 to the FTC for distribution to our members. The FTC Order also provided for an additional consumer redress payment of $24 million, which was suspended based on our then-current financial condition on the basis of financial information we submitted to the FTC. The FTC Order specifies that in the event the FTC were to find that the financial materials submitted by us to the FTC at the time of the FTC Order were not truthful, accurate, and 29 Table of Contents complete, the court order entering the settlement could be re-opened and the suspended judgment in the amount of the additional $24 million would become immediately due in full. The outcome of litigation or regulatory proceedings could subject us to significant monetary damages, restrict our ability to conduct our business, harm our reputation, and otherwise negatively impact our business. From time to time, we have been, and in the future may become, subject to litigation, claims, and regulatory proceedings, including class action litigation and litigation arising from contract disputes with vendors, partners, and customers. We cannot predict the outcome of any actions or proceedings, and the cost of defending such actions or proceedings could be material. Furthermore, defending such actions or proceedings could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. If we are found liable in any actions or proceedings, we may have to pay substantial damages or change the way we conduct our business, either of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, and prospects. There may also be negative publicity associated with litigation or regulatory proceedings that could harm our reputation or decrease acceptance of our services. Moreover, we utilize contractors and third parties for various services, including certain advertising, which may increase these risks. A former service provider claimed that she was misclassified as an independent contractor, and we may be subject to other claims of this nature from time to time. These claims may be costly to defend and may result in imposition of damages, adverse tax consequences, and harm to our reputation. We do not believe the nature of any pending legal proceeding will have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. However, our assessment may change at any time based upon the discovery of facts or circumstances that are presently not known to us. Therefore, there can be no assurance that any pending or future litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, operating results, and financial condition. We depend on key personnel, and if we fail to retain and attract skilled management and other key personnel, our business may be harmed. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued services of our current management team, including Todd Davis, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of Mr. Davis or one or more of our other key executives or employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. Other than Mr. Davis and the Chief Technology Officer at ID Analytics, we do not maintain “key person” insurance policies on the lives of our executive officers or any of our other employees. We employ all of our executive officers and key employees on an at-will basis, and their employment can be terminated by us or them at any time, for any reason and without notice, subject, in certain cases, to severance payment rights. In order to retain valuable employees, in addition to salary and cash incentives, we provide stock options or other share-based compensation that vest over time. The value to employees of share-based compensation that vest over time will be significantly affected by movements in our stock price that are beyond our control and may at any time be insufficient to counteract offers from other companies. Our success also depends on our ability to attract, retain, and motivate additional skilled management personnel. We plan to continue to expand our work force to continue to enhance our business and operating results. We believe that there is significant competition for qualified personnel with the skills and knowledge that we require. Many of the other companies with which we compete for qualified personnel have greater financial and other resources than we do. They also may provide more diverse opportunities and better chances for career advancement. Some of these characteristics may be more appealing to high-quality candidates than those which we have to offer. If we are not able to attract and retain the necessary qualified personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will impede significantly the achievement of our business objectives and our ability to pursue our business strategy. New hires require significant training and, in most cases, take significant time before they achieve full productivity. New employees may not become as productive as we expect, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals. If 30 Table of Contents our recruiting, training, and retention efforts are not successful or do not generate a corresponding increase in revenue, our business will be harmed. A failure of the insurance companies that underwrite the identity theft insurance provided as part of our consumer services, or refusal by those insurance companies to provide the expected insurance, could harm our business. Our consumer services include identity theft insurance for our members that provides coverage for certain out-of-pocket expenses to our members, such as loss of income, replacement of fraudulent withdrawals, child and elderly care, travel expenses, and replacement of documents. This identity theft insurance also backs our $1 million service guarantee. Any failure or refusal of our insurance providers to provide the expected insurance could damage our reputation, cause us to lose members, expose us to liability claims by our members, negatively impact our sales and marketing efforts, and have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Events such as a security breach at a large organization that compromise a significant number of our members’ personally identifiable information could result in a large number of identity-related events that in turn could severely strain our operations and have a negative impact on our business. Events such as a security breach at a large organization (including major financial institutions, retailers, and Internet service providers) could compromise the personally identifiable information of a significant number of our members. Any such event could in turn result in a large number of identity-related events that we must address, placing severe strain on our operations. Any failure in our ability to appropriately and timely process and address a large number of identity-related events taking place at the same time could result in a loss of members, harm to our reputation, and other damage to our business. Moreover, any related remediation services we provide may not meet member expectations and further exacerbate these risks. Furthermore, if these events result in significant claims made under our identity theft insurance, this could negatively impact our insurance premiums and our ability to continue to provide what we refer to as our guarantee on a cost-effective basis, or at all. We may require significant capital to fund our business, and our inability to generate and obtain such capital could harm our business, operating results, financial condition, and prospects. To fund our expanding business, including the enterprise business that we recently acquired, we must have sufficient working capital to continue to make significant investments in our service offerings, advertising, and other activities. As a result, in addition to the revenue we generate from our business, we may need additional equity or debt financing to provide the funds required for these endeavors. If such financing is not available on satisfactory terms or at all, we may be unable to operate or expand our business in the manner and at the rate desired. Debt financing increases expenses, may contain covenants that restrict the operation of our business, and must be repaid regardless of operating results. Equity financing, or debt financing that is convertible into equity, could result in additional dilution to our existing stockholders, and any new securities we issue could have rights, preferences, and privileges superior to those associated with our common stock. In addition, the current global financial crisis, which has included, among other things, significant reductions in available capital and liquidity from banks and other providers of credit and substantial reductions or fluctuations in equity and currency values worldwide, may make it difficult for us to raise additional capital or obtain additional credit, when needed, on acceptable terms or at all. Our inability to generate or obtain the financial resources needed to fund our business and growth strategies may require us to delay, scale back, or eliminate some or all of our operations or the expansion of our business, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, and prospects. 31 Table of Contents If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, including our LifeLock brand, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, and our business may be adversely affected. The success of our business depends in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property and the LifeLock brand. We rely on a combination of federal, state, and common law trademark, patent, and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, and contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property. However, these measures afford only limited protection and might be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by third parties. The measures we take to protect our intellectual property may not be sufficient or effective, and in some instances we have not undertaken comprehensive searches with respect to certain of our intellectual property. We have limited protections in countries outside the United States, such as registrations for key trademarks. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop similar intellectual property. While we generally obtain non-disclosure agreements from each of our employees and independent contractors, there are former independent contractors from whom we have not obtained these agreements. Therefore, these former independent contractors may inappropriately disclose our confidential information or use that confidential information illegally, which could subject us to liability to third parties. We currently have a number of issued and pending patents and trademarks, many of which were procured in connection with our acquisition of ID Analytics. We cannot assure you that any patents will issue from our currently pending patent applications in a manner that gives us the protection that we seek, if at all, or that any future patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented. Any patents that may issue in the future from pending or future patent applications may not provide sufficiently broad protection or may not prove to be enforceable in actions against alleged infringers. We also cannot assure you that any future trademark or service mark registrations will be issued from pending or future applications or that any registered trademarks or service marks will be enforceable or provide adequate protection of our proprietary rights. We may find it necessary to take legal action in the future to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights, and such action may be expensive and time consuming. In addition, we may be unable to obtain a favorable outcome in any such intellectual property litigation. Our services may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to pay unexpected litigation costs or damages or prevent us from selling our services. From time to time, third parties may claim that our services infringe or otherwise violate their intellectual property rights. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims, including claims of alleged infringement by us of the intellectual property rights of third parties. Any dispute or litigation regarding intellectual property could be expensive and time consuming, regardless of the merits of any claim, and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. If we were to discover or be notified that our services potentially infringe or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of others, we may need to obtain licenses from these parties in order to avoid infringement. We may not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, and any such license may substantially restrict our use of the intellectual property. Moreover, if we are sued for infringement and lose the lawsuit, we could be required to pay substantial damages or be enjoined from offering the infringing services. Our intellectual property portfolio may not be useful in asserting a counterclaim, or negotiating a license, in response to a claim of intellectual property infringement. Any of the foregoing could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from selling our services. Our business depends on our ability to utilize intellectual property, technology, and content owned by third parties, the loss of which would harm our business. Our services utilize intellectual property, technology, and content owned by third parties. From time to time, we may be required to renegotiate with these third parties or negotiate with other third parties to include or 32 Table of Contents continue using their intellectual property, technology, or content in our existing service offerings, in new versions of our service offerings, or in new services that we offer. We may not be able to obtain the necessary rights from these third parties on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and the third-party intellectual property, technology, and content we use or desire to use may not be appropriately supported, maintained, or enhanced by the third parties. If we are unable to obtain the rights necessary to use or continue to use third-party intellectual property, technology, and content in our services, or if those third parties are unable to support, maintain, and enhance their intellectual property, technology, and content, we could experience increased costs or delays or reductions in our service offerings, which in turn may harm our financial condition, damage our brand, and result in the loss of customers. We are attempting to build our intellectual property portfolio internally and through acquisitions, such as our acquisition of ID Analytics. We may be required to incur substantial expenses to do so, and our efforts may not be successful. Our use of “open source” software could negatively affect our ability to sell our services and subject us to possible litigation. Software code that is freely shared in the software development community is referred to as open source code, and software applications built from open source code are referred to as open source software. A portion of the technologies licensed by us incorporates such open source software, and we may incorporate open source software in the future. Such open source software is generally licensed by its authors or other third parties under open source licenses. Use and distribution of open source software may entail greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or the quality of the code. Some open source licenses, such as the GNU General Public License, require that source code subject to the license be disclosed to third parties that have a right to modify and redistribute that source code and any software derived from it. If we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software to the public. This would allow our competitors to create similar services and platforms with lower development effort and time and ultimately could reduce or eliminate our ability to commercialize or profit from our services. Although we have established internal review and approval processes to avoid subjecting our technologies to conditions we do not intend, we cannot be certain that all open source software is submitted for approval prior to use in our services. The terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by the U.S. courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a way that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our services. In this event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties to continue offering our services, to make generally available, in source code form, our proprietary code, or to discontinue the sale of our services, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our operating results are likely to vary significantly and be unpredictable, which could cause the trading price of our stock to decline, make period-to-period comparisons less meaningful, and make our future results difficult to predict. We may experience significant fluctuations in our revenue, expenses, and operating results in future periods. Our operating results may fluctuate in the future as a result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These fluctuations may result in declines in our stock price. Moreover, these fluctuations may make comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis less meaningful and make our future results difficult to predict. You should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. In addition, if revenue levels do not meet our expectations, our operating results and ability to execute on our business plan are 33 Table of Contents likely to be harmed. In addition to the other factors listed in this “Risk Factors” section, factors that could affect our operating results include the following: • our ability to expand our customer base and the market for our services; • our ability to generate revenue from existing customers; • our ability to establish and maintain relationships with strategic partners; • our expense and capital expenditure levels; • service introductions or enhancements and market acceptance of new services by us and our competitors; • pricing and availability of competitive services; • our ability to address competitive factors successfully; • changes in the competitive landscape as a result of mergers, acquisitions, or strategic alliances that could allow our competitors to gain market share, or the emergence of new competitors; • changes or anticipated changes in economic conditions; and • changes in legislation and regulatory requirements related to our business. Due to these and other factors, our financial results for any quarterly or annual period may not meet our expectations or the expectations of investors or analysts that follow our stock and may not be meaningful indications of our future performance. Because we recognize revenue in our consumer business from our members over the term of their subscription periods, fluctuations in sales or retention may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. We recognize revenue in our consumer business from our members ratably over the term of their subscription periods. As a result, a large portion of the revenue we recognize in any period is deferred revenue from memberships purchased during previous periods. Consequently, a decline in new members or a decrease in member retention in any particular period will not necessarily be fully reflected in the consumer revenue in that period and will negatively affect our revenue in future periods. In addition, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure to reflect this reduced revenue. Accordingly, the effect of significant fluctuations in new members or member retention and market acceptance of our services may not be fully reflected in our operating results until future periods. Our subscription model also makes it difficult for us rapidly to increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new members is recognized ratably over the applicable subscription periods. We may be subject to assertions that taxes must be collected based on sales and use of our services in various states, which could expose us to liability and cause material harm to our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Whether sales of our services are subject to state sales and use taxes is uncertain, due in part to the nature of our services and the relationships through which our services are offered, as well as changing state laws and interpretations of those laws. In May 2012, we entered into a settlement agreement with the New York State Department of Taxation and Finance regarding our collection of sales tax in the state of New York. We recently began collecting and remitting sales tax in several states related to the sale of our consumer services. Additional states or one or more countries or other jurisdictions may seek to impose sales or other tax collection obligations on us in the future. A successful assertion by any state, country, or other jurisdiction that we should be collecting sales or other taxes on the sale of our services could, among other things, increase the cost of our services, create significant administrative burdens for us, result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, discourage current members and other consumers from purchasing our services, or otherwise substantially harm our business and operating results. 34 Table of Contents Increases in credit card processing fees would increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our operating results, and the termination of our relationship with any major credit card company would have a severe, negative impact on our business. A substantial majority of our members pay for our services using credit cards. From time to time, the major credit card companies or the issuing banks may increase the fees that they charge for each transaction using their cards. An increase in those fees would require us to either increase the prices we charge for our services or suffer a negative impact on our margins, either of which could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, our credit card fees may be increased by credit card companies if our chargeback rate, or the rate of payment refunds, exceeds certain minimum thresholds. If we are unable to maintain our chargeback rate at acceptable levels, our credit card fees for chargeback transactions, or for all credit card transactions, may be increased, and, if the problem significantly worsens, credit card companies may further increase our fees or terminate their relationship with us. In addition, changes in billing systems in the future could increase the per transaction cost that we pay. Any increases in our credit card fees could adversely affect our operating results, particularly if we elect not to raise the retail list price for our consumer services to offset the increase. The termination of our ability to process payments on any major credit card would significantly impair our business. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our business and limit our ability to expand our business or respond to changes, and we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations. As of December 31, 2012, we had no outstanding debt. On January 9, 2013, we refinanced our existing senior credit facility and entered into a new senior credit facility. Although we have not drawn any amounts on the new senior credit facility, we may incur indebtedness in the future, including any borrowings available under our new senior credit facility. Any substantial indebtedness and the fact that a substantial portion of our cash flow from operating activities could be needed to make payments on this indebtedness could have adverse consequences, including the following: • reducing the availability of our cash flow for our operations, capital expenditures, future business opportunities, and other purposes; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate, which would place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have less debt; • limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and • failing to comply with the covenants in our debt agreements could result in all of our indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable. Our ability to borrow any funds needed to operate and expand our business will depend in part on our ability to generate cash. Our ability to generate cash is subject to the performance of our business as well as general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors that are beyond our control. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities or if future borrowings are not available to us under our senior credit facility or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs, our operating results, financial condition, and ability to expand our business may be adversely affected. Moreover, our inability to make scheduled payments on our debt obligations in the future would require us to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, sell assets, delay capital expenditures, or seek additional equity. 35 Table of Contents Covenants in our senior credit facility impose, and any future debt arrangements may impose, significant operating and financial restrictions that may adversely affect our business and ability to operate our business. The agreement governing our senior credit facility with Bank of America contains covenants that limit various actions that we may take, including the following: • incurring additional indebtedness; • granting additional liens; • making certain investments and distributions; • merging, dissolving, liquidating, consolidating, or disposing of all or substantially all of our assets; • prepaying and modifying debt instruments; and • entering into transactions with affiliates. These restrictions could limit our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs, make acquisitions, or pursue available business opportunities. Our senior credit facility also requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy financial condition tests at the end of each fiscal quarter. Our ability to meet these financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not meet those tests. We may be required to take action to reduce our indebtedness or to act in a manner contrary to our business objectives to meet these ratios and satisfy these covenants. We could also incur additional indebtedness in the future having even more restrictive covenants. Failure to comply with any of the covenants under our senior credit facility, or any other indebtedness we may incur, could result in a default under such agreements, which could result in an acceleration of the timing of payments on all of our outstanding indebtedness and other negative consequences. In addition, since our senior credit facility with Bank of America is secured by substantially all of our assets, a default under that facility could result in Bank of America exercising its lien on substantially all of our assets. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. We will incur increased costs as a result of being a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance matters. We will incur significant legal, accounting, and other expenses as a public company, including costs resulting from public company reporting obligations under the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations regarding corporate governance practices, including those under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Act, and the listing requirements of the stock exchange on which our securities are listed. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to ensure that we comply with all of these requirements. Moreover, despite recent reforms made possible by the JOBS Act, the reporting requirements, rules, and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly, particularly after we are no longer an “emerging growth company.” Any changes that we make to comply with these obligations may not be sufficient to allow us to satisfy our obligations as a public company on a timely basis, or at all. We also expect these rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit and compensation committees, or as executive officers. 36 Table of Contents Our ability to use our net operating loss carry-forwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited, which could potentially result in increased tax liabilities to us in the future. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $160 million of federal and approximately $165 million of state net operating loss carry-forwards. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Internal Revenue Code”), if a corporation undergoes an “ownership change” (generally defined as a greater than 50% change (by value) in its equity ownership over a three year period), the corporation’s ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carry-forwards and other pre-change tax attributes (such as research tax credits) to offset its post-change income may be limited. We recently completed an analysis of prior year ownership changes and determined that we experienced an “ownership change” as defined by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. However, we determined that none of our federal and state net operating loss carry-forwards will expire solely as a result of our prior ownership changes. Additionally, with our IPO and other transactions that have occurred over the past three years, we may also experience an “ownership change” in the future as a result of subsequent shifts in our stock ownership. As a result, if we earn net taxable income, our ability to use our pre-change net operating loss carry-forwards to offset taxable income may be subject to limitations, which could potentially result in increased future tax liability to us. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our stock price has been and will likely continue to be volatile, and the value of an investment in our common stock may decline. The trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be volatile. In addition to the risk factors described in this section and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, factors that may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate include the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly or annual financial results; • the financial guidance we may provide to the public, any changes in such guidance, or our failure to meet such guidance; • the failure of industry or securities analysts to maintain coverage of our company, changes in financial estimates by any industry or securities analysts that follow our company, or our failure to meet such estimates; • various market factors or perceived market factors, including rumors, whether or not correct, involving us, our customers, our strategic partners, or our competitors; • sales, or anticipated sales, of large blocks of our stock; • short selling of our common stock by investors; • additions or departures of key personnel; • announcements of technological innovations by us or by our competitors; • introductions of new services or new pricing policies by us or by our competitors; • regulatory or political developments; • litigation and governmental or regulatory investigations; • acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or by our competitors; and • general economic, political, and financial market conditions or events. Furthermore, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These and other factors may 37 Table of Contents cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the price or liquidity of our common stock. In addition, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders were to bring a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit or paying for settlements or damages. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management from our business. Future sales of our common stock in the public market by our existing stockholders, or the perception that such sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market, and even the perception that these sales could occur may depress the market price. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately 86.6 million shares of common stock outstanding. The holders of approximately 70.9 million shares of common stock have agreed with the underwriters of our IPO or otherwise agreed, subject to certain exceptions, not to dispose of or hedge any of their common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of common stock during the 180-day period after our IPO, except with the prior written consent of the representatives of the underwriters. After the expiration of the lock-up period, these shares may be sold in the public market, subject to prior registration or qualification for an exemption from registration, including, in the case of shares held by affiliates, compliance with the volume restrictions of Rule 144. In addition, shares issued or issuable upon the exercise of options and warrants as of the expiration of the 180-day restricted period will be eligible for sale at that time. Sales of stock by these stockholders could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. Stockholders owning approximately 56.8 million shares are entitled, under contracts providing for registration rights, to require us to register our securities owned by them for public sale, subject to the 180-day restricted period described above. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in the shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act, except for shares held by our affiliates. Any sales of securities by these stockholders could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. Sales of common stock as restrictions end or pursuant to registration rights may make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. Future sales and issuances of our common stock or rights to purchase common stock by us, including pursuant to our equity incentive plans, could result in additional dilution of the percentage ownership of our stockholders and could cause our stock price to fall. We intend to issue additional securities pursuant to our equity incentive plans and may issue equity or convertible securities in the future. To the extent we do so, our stockholders may experience substantial dilution. We may sell common stock, convertible securities, or other equity securities in one or more transactions at prices and in a manner we determine from time to time. If we sell common stock, convertible securities, or other equity securities in more than one transaction, investors may be materially diluted by subsequent sales and new investors could gain rights superior to our existing stockholders. We are an “emerging growth company” and as a result of the reduced disclosure and governance requirements applicable to emerging growth companies, our common stock may be less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company” as defined in the JOBS Act, and we intend to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our 38 Table of Contents periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we will rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. We may take advantage of these reporting exemptions until we are no longer an emerging growth company. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earlier of (1) the last day of the fiscal year (a) following the fifth anniversary of the completion of our IPO, (b) in which we have total annual gross revenue of at least $1.0 billion, or (c) in which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer, which means the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the prior June 30th, and (2) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt during the prior three-year period. Under Section 107(b) of the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this exemption from new or revised accounting standards and, therefore, we will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. Our directors, executive officers, and principal stockholders have substantial control over us and will be able to exert significant control over matters subject to stockholder approval. Our directors, executive officers, and holders of more than 5% of our common stock, together with their affiliates, beneficially own or control a majority of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, will be able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets. This concentration of ownership could limit your ability to influence corporate matters and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control over us. Anti-takeover provisions could impair a takeover attempt and adversely affect existing stockholders. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and applicable provisions of Delaware law may have the effect of rendering more difficult, delaying, or preventing an acquisition of our company, even when this would be in the best interest of our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include provisions that provide for the following: • authorize our board of directors to issue, without further action by the stockholders, up to 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock; • require that any action to be taken by our stockholders be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting and not by written consent; • specify that special meetings of our stockholders can be called only by our board of directors, the chairperson of our board of directors, our chief executive officer, or our president (in the absence of a chief executive officer); • establish an advance notice procedure for stockholder proposals to be brought before an annual meeting, including proposed nominations of persons for election to our board of directors; • establish that our board of directors is divided into three classes, Class I, Class II, and Class III, with each class serving three-year staggered terms; • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors; • provide that our directors may be removed only for cause; 39 Table of Contents • provide that vacancies on our board of directors may be filled only by a majority of directors then in office, even though less than a quorum; and • require the approval of our board of directors or the holders of a supermajority of our outstanding shares of capital stock to amend our bylaws and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an interested stockholder, unless such transactions are approved by our board of directors. This provision could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company, whether or not it is desired by or beneficial to our stockholders. In addition, other provisions of Delaware law may also discourage, delay, or prevent someone from acquiring us or merging with us. These provisions, alone or together, could delay or prevent hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business, or our market, or if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that securities or industry analysts may publish about us, our business, our market, or our competitors. If adequate research coverage is not established or maintained on our company or if any of the analysts who may cover us downgrade our stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business or provide relatively more favorable recommendations about our competitors, our stock price would likely decline. If any analyst who may cover us were to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Since we do not expect to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future, our stockholders may be forced to sell their stock in order to obtain a return on their investment. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. In addition, our new senior credit facility with Bank of America restricts our ability to pay cash dividends. We plan to retain any future earnings to finance our operations and growth plans discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of shares of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any return on their investment. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 