Risk Factors.” In accordance with the guidelines of the SEC, our independent reserve engineers’ estimates of future net revenues from our properties, and the standardized measure thereof, were determined to be economically producible under existing economic conditions, which requires the use of the 12-month average price for each product. Future prices received for production and costs may vary, perhaps significantly, from the prices and costs assumed for purposes of these estimates. The standardized measure shown should not be construed as the current market value of the reserves. The 10% discount factor used to calculate present value, which is required by Financial Accounting Standards Board’s (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”), is not necessarily the most appropriate discount rate. The present value, no matter what discount rate is used, is materially affected by assumptions as to timing of future production, which may prove to be inaccurate. From time to time, we engage NSAI to prepare a reserve and economic evaluation of properties that we are considering purchasing. Neither NSAI nor any of their respective employees have any interest in those properties and the compensation for these engagements is not contingent on their estimates of reserves and future net revenues for the subject properties. During 2009, we paid NSAI approximately $33,000 for all reserve and economic evaluations. Qualifications of Technical Persons and Internal Controls over Reserves Estimation Process Our proved reserve information as of December 31, 2009 included in this Annual Report was estimated by our independent petroleum engineers, NSAI and D&M, in accordance with generally accepted petroleum engineering and evaluation principles and definitions and guidelines established by the SEC. The technical persons responsible for preparing the reserves estimates presented herein meet the requirements regarding qualifications, independence, objectivity and confidentiality set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers. We maintain an internal staff of petroleum engineers who work closely with our independent petroleum engineers to ensure the integrity, accuracy and timeliness of data furnished to NSAI and D&M in their reserves estimation process. In the fourth quarter, our technical team meets on a regular basis with representatives of NSAI and D&M to review properties and discuss methods and assumptions used in NSAI and D&M’s preparation of the year-end reserves estimates. While we have no formal committee specifically designated to review reserves reporting and the reserves estimation process, the NSAI reserve report and the D&M reserve report are reviewed by our senior management and internal technical staff. Additionally, our senior management reviews and approves any internally estimated significant changes to our proved reserves on a quarterly basis. 5 Reserve Technologies Proved reserves are those quantities of oil and natural gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods, and government regulations. The term “reasonable certainty” implies a high degree of confidence that the quantities of oil and/or natural gas actually recovered will equal or exceed the estimate. To achieve reasonable certainty, NSAI and D&M each employed technologies that have been demonstrated to yield results with consistency and repeatability. The technical and economic data used in the estimation of our proved reserves include, but are not limited to, well logs, geologic maps, production data, seismic data, well test data, historical price and cost information and property ownership interests. Proved Undeveloped Reserves Our proved undeveloped reserves at December 31, 2009, as estimated by our independent petroleum engineers, were 46.0 Bcfe, consisting of 1.6 million barrels of oil, 29.0 MMcf of natural gas and 1.2 million barrels of natural gas liquids. In 2009, we developed approximately 0.5% of our total proved undeveloped reserves booked as of December 31, 2008 through the drilling of one gross (0.45 net) well at an aggregate capital cost of approximately $0.3 million. None of our proved undeveloped reserves at December 31, 2009 have remained undeveloped for more than five years since the date of initial booking as proved undeveloped reserves. At December 31, 2009, there are 18 locations with 3.9 Bcfe of proved undeveloped reserves in South Texas that are scheduled to be drilled on a date more than five years from the date the reserves were initially booked as proved undeveloped since we have a contractual arrangement with the operator to drill only 14 wells per year. Production and Price History The following table sets forth information regarding net production of natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil and certain price and cost information for each of the periods indicated: Net Production Average Realized Sales Prices (2) Production Cost (3) Crude Oil Bbls/day Natural Gas Mcf/day NGLs Gal/day Crude Oil Per Bbl Natural Gas Per Mcf NGLs Per Gal Per BOE Year Ended December 31, 2009 (1) Sun TSH Field 26 1,124 7,095 $ 65.40 $ 11.03 $ 0.95 $ 3.76 Other 921 11,320 6,113 $ 75.54 $ 11.16 $ 0.75 $ 11.25 Total 947 12,444 13,208 $ 75.26 $ 11.15 $ 0.86 $ 10.39 Year Ended December 31, 2008 (4) Total other 715 11,450 3,271 $ 85.69 $ 10.49 $ 1.18 $ 11.24 Year Ended December 31, 2007 Total other 84 11,080 — $ 66.08 $ 8.92 $ — $ 7.17 (1) Average daily production for 2009 calculated based on 365 days including production for the Sun TSH and Ward County acquisitions from the closing dates of these acquisitions. (2) Average realized sales prices including hedges but excluding the non-cash amortization of premiums paid and non-cash amortization of value on derivative contracts acquired. (3) Production costs include such items as lease operating expenses, gathering and compression fees and other customary charges and excludes production taxes (severance and ad valorem taxes). (4) Average daily production for 2008 calculated based on 366 days including production for the Permian Basin and Dos Hermanos acquisitions from the closing dates of these acquisitions. 6 Productive Wells The following table sets forth information at December 31, 2009 relating to the productive wells in which we owned a working interest as of that date. Productive wells consist of producing wells and wells capable of production, including natural gas wells awaiting pipeline connections to commence deliveries and oil wells awaiting connection to production facilities. Gross wells are the total number of producing wells in which we have an interest, and net wells are the sum of our fractional working interests owned in gross wells. Natural Gas Wells Oil Wells Total Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Operated 5 5 60 58 65 63 Non-operated 1,228 1,087 718 35 1,946 1,122 Total 1,233 1,092 778 93 2,011 1,185 Developed and Undeveloped Acreage The following table sets forth information as of December 31, 2009 relating to our leasehold acreage. Developed Acreage (1) Undeveloped Acreage (2) Total Acreage Gross (3) Net (4) Gross (3) Net (4) Gross Net Operated 10,247 7,376 3,430 2,874 13,677 10,250 Non-operated 30,980 28,044 122,171 52,756 153,151 80,800 (1) Developed acres are acres spaced or assigned to productive wells. (2) Undeveloped acres are acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of natural gas or oil, regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves. (3) A gross acre is an acre in which a working interest is owned. The number of gross acres is the total number of acres in which a working interest is owned. (4) A net acre is deemed to exist when the sum of the fractional ownership working interests in gross acres equals one. The number of net acres is the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross acres expressed as whole numbers and fractions thereof. Drilling Activity In Appalachia, most of our wells are drilled to depths ranging from 2,000’ to 4,500’. Many of our wells are completed to multiple producing zones and production from these zones may be commingled. The average well in Appalachia takes approximately 10 days to drill and most of our wells are producing and connected to pipeline within 30 days after completion. In general, our producing wells in Appalachia have stable production profiles and long-lived production, often with total projected economic lives in excess of 50 years. In 2009, we and our operating partner, Vinland, decided not to drill any new wells until natural gas prices improved. However, during 2009 we recompleted 12 wells to an oil zone located less than 3,000 feet in depth. The data from these recompletions has generated some additional oil drilling prospects. In 2010, we intend to drill approximately 10 net wells in Appalachia. In the Permian Basin, we drilled no wells in 2009 on our operated properties and there was limited drilling activity on our non-operated properties. In December 2009, we acquired production and undeveloped acreage in Ward County, Texas. In 2010, we intend to drill one oil well in Ward County in which we will own a 100% working interest. This oil well will be drilled horizontally in the Bone Springs sand to a vertical depth of approximately 11,400’ and is designed to drill out 4,000’ laterally. This proposed oil well is offset on 3 sides with successful horizontal oil wells and the reserves for the proposed well are proved. In South Texas, most of our wells are drilled to depths ranging from 5,500’ to 7,800’. Most of the reserves are produced from Olmos gas sands. We participated (50% working interest) in drilling one Olmos sand gas well in Webb County in the fourth quarter of 2009. In August 2009, we acquired production and undeveloped acreage in the Sun TSH field in La Salle County. In 2010, we and our operating partner, Lewis Petro Properties, plan to drill up to 13 gross (6.5 net) Olmos wells in Webb and La Salle Counties. One of the wells planned for 2010 is a horizontal well in the Olmos sand. During 2010, we intend to concentrate our drilling activity on lower risk, development properties. The number and types of wells we drill will vary depending on the amount of funds we have available for drilling, the cost of each well, the size of the fractional working interests we acquire in each well and the estimated recoverable reserves attributable to each well. 7 The following table sets forth information with respect to wells completed during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. The information should not be considered indicative of future performance, nor should it be assumed that there is necessarily any correlation between the number of productive wells drilled, quantities of reserves found or economic value. Productive wells are those that produce commercial quantities of natural gas, regardless of whether they produce a reasonable rate of return. Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Gross wells: Productive 1 86 82 Dry — 1 1 Total 1 87 83 Net Development wells: Productive 0.45 38 33 Dry — 1 — Total 0.45 39 33 Net Exploratory wells: Productive — — — Dry — — — Total — — — Operations Principal Customers For the year ended December 31, 2009, sales of natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil to Seminole Energy Services, Osram Sylvania, Inc., Plains Marketing L.P., Sunoco Partners Marketing and Terminals, L.P. and Occidental Energy Marketing, Inc. accounted for approximately 35%, 9%, 7%, 5% and 2%, respectively, of our natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil revenues. Our top five purchasers during the year ended December 31, 2009, therefore accounted for 58% of our total revenues. To the extent these and other customers reduce the volumes of natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil that they purchase from us and they are not replaced in a timely manner with a new customer, our revenues and cash available for distribution could decline. However, if we were to lose a customer, we believe we could identify a substitute purchaser in a timely manner. Price Risk Management Activities We enter into derivative contracts with respect to a portion of our projected natural gas and oil production through various transactions that mitigate the volatility of future prices received. These transactions may include price swaps whereby we will receive a fixed-price for our production and pay a variable market price to the contract counterparty. Additionally, we may enter into put options for which we pay the counterparty an option premium, equal to the fair value of the option at the purchase date. At the settlement date we receive the excess, if any, of the fixed floor over the floating rate. Furthermore, we may enter into collars where we pay the counterparty if the market price is above the ceiling price and the counterparty pays us if the market price is below the floor price on a notional quantity. These activities are intended to support our realized commodity prices at targeted levels and to manage our exposure to natural gas and oil price fluctuations. It is never management’s intention to hold or issue derivative instruments for speculative trading purposes. Conditions sometimes arise where actual production is less than estimated, which has, and could result in overhedged volumes. The following table summarizes commodity derivative contracts in place at December 31, 2009: 2010 2011 2012 2013 Gas Positions: Fixed Price Swaps: Notional Volume (MMBtu) 4,731,040 3,328,312 — — Fixed Price ($/MMBtu) $ 8.66 $ 7.83 $ — $ — Collars: Notional Volume (MMBtu) 1,607,500 1,933,500 — — Floor Price ($/MMBtu) $ 7.73 $ 7.34 $ — $ — Ceiling Price ($/MMBtu) $ 8.92 $ 8.44 $ — $ — Total: Notional Volume (MMBtu) 6,338,540 5,261,812 — — Oil Positions: Fixed Price Swaps: Notional Volume (Bbls) 310,250 260,750 137,250 118,625 Fixed Price ($/Bbl) $ 85.93 $ 86.12 $ 88.13 $ 88.42 Collars: Notional Volume (Bbls) — — 45,750 45,625 Floor Price ($/Bbl) $ — $ — $ 80.00 $ 80.00 Ceiling Price ($/Bbl) $ — $ — $ 100.25 $ 100.25 Total: Notional Volume (Bbls) 310,250 260,750 183,000 164,250 8 We have also entered into interest rate swaps, which require exchanges of cash flows that serve to synthetically convert a portion of our variable interest rate obligations to fixed interest rates. The following summarizes information concerning our positions in open interest rate swaps at December 31, 2009. Notional Amount Fixed Libor Rates Period: January 1, 2010 to December 18, 2010 $ 10,000,000 1.50 % January 1, 2010 to December 20, 2010 $ 10,000,000 1.85 % January 1, 2010 to January 31, 2011 $ 20,000,000 3.00 % (1) January 1, 2010 to March 31, 2011 $ 20,000,000 2.08 % January 1, 2010 to December 10, 2012 $ 20,000,000 3.35 % January 1, 2010 to January 31, 2013 $ 20,000,000 2.38 % (1) In February 2010, we extended the terms of the 3.00%, $20.0 million interest rate swap for two additional years to January 31, 2013 and reduced the rate from 3.00% to 2.66%. Counterparty Risk At December 31, 2009, based upon all of our open derivative contracts shown above and their respective mark-to-market values, the Company had the following current and long-term derivative assets and liabilities shown by counterparty with their S&P financial strength rating in parentheses (in thousands): 9 Citibank, N.A. (A+) BNP Paribas (AA) The Bank of Nova Scotia (AA-) Wells Fargo Bank N.A./Wachovia Bank, N.A. (AA) BBVA Compass ( A+) Total Current Assets $ 3,912 $ 10,641 $ — $ 1,570 $ 67 $ 16,190 Current Liabilities $ (92 ) $ — $ (161 ) $ — $ — $ (253 ) Long-Term Assets $ 1,393 $ 3,745 $ 87 $ — $ — $ 5,225 Long-Term Liabilities $ — $ (1,040 ) $ (592 ) $ (402 ) $ (2 ) $ (2,036 ) Total Amount Due from/(Owed To) Counterparty at December 31, 2009 $ 5,213 $ 13,346 $ (666 ) $ 1,168 $ 65 $ 19,126 We net derivative assets and liabilities for counterparties where we have a legal right of offset. Competition The natural gas and oil industry is highly competitive. We encounter strong competition from other independent operators and from major oil companies in acquiring properties, leasing acreage, contracting for drilling equipment and securing trained personnel. Many of these competitors have financial and technical resources and staff substantially larger than ours or a different business model. As a result, our competitors may be able to pay more for desirable leases, or to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties or prospects than our financial, technical or personnel resources will permit. We are also affected by competition for drilling rigs and the availability of related equipment. In the past, the natural gas and oil industry has experienced shortages of drilling rigs, equipment, pipe and personnel, which has delayed development drilling and has caused significant price increases. We are unable to predict when, or if, such shortages may occur or how they would affect our development program. Competition is also strong for attractive natural gas and oil producing properties, undeveloped leases and drilling rights, and we cannot assure unitholders that we will be able to compete satisfactorily when attempting to make further acquisitions. Title to Properties As is customary in the natural gas and oil industry, we initially conduct only a cursory review of the title to our properties on which we do not have proved reserves. Prior to the commencement of drilling operations on those properties, however, we conduct a thorough title examination and perform curative work with respect to significant defects. To the extent title opinions or other investigations reflect title defects on those properties, we are typically responsible for curing any title defects at our expense. We will not commence drilling operations on a property until we have cured any material title defects on such property. Prior to completing an acquisition of producing natural gas and oil leases, we perform title reviews on the most significant leases and, depending on the materiality of properties, we may obtain a title opinion or review previously obtained title opinions. As a result, we have obtained title opinions on a significant portion of our natural gas and oil properties and believe that we have satisfactory title to our producing properties in accordance with standards generally accepted in the natural gas and oil industry. Although title to these properties is subject to encumbrances in some cases, such as customary interests generally retained in connection with acquisition of real property, customary royalty interests, contract terms and restrictions, liens under operating agreements, liens related to environmental liabilities associated with historical operations, liens for taxes not yet payable and other burdens, restrictions and minor encumbrances customary in the natural gas and oil industry, we believe that none of these liens, restrictions, easements, burdens and encumbrances will materially detract from the value of these properties or from our interest in these properties, or will materially interfere with our use of these properties in the operation of our business. 10 Seasonal Nature of Business Seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations can limit our drilling and producing activities and other operations in some of our operating areas, specifically the Appalachian region and, as a result, we generally perform the majority of our drilling in this area during the summer and fall months. These seasonal anomalies can pose challenges for meeting our well drilling objectives and increase competition for equipment, supplies and personnel during the spring and summer months, which could lead to shortages and increase costs or delay our operations. Generally, but not always, the demand for natural gas decreases during the summer months and increases during the winter months. Seasonal anomalies such as mild winters or hot summers sometimes lessen this fluctuation. In addition, certain natural gas consumers utilize natural gas storage facilities and purchase some of their anticipated winter requirements during the summer. This can also lessen seasonal demand fluctuations. Environmental Matters and Regulation General. Our business involving the acquisition and development of natural gas and oil properties is subject to extensive and stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to conservation and environmental protection. These operations are subject to the same environmental laws and regulations as other similarly situated companies in the natural gas and oil industry. These laws and regulations may: · require the acquisition of various permits and bonds before drilling commences; · require the installation of expensive pollution control equipment; · restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities; · limit or prohibit drilling activities on lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; · require remedial measures to prevent pollution from historical and ongoing operations, such as pit closure and plugging of abandoned wells; · impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations; and · with respect to operations affecting federal lands or leases, require preparation of a Resource Management Plan, an Environmental Assessment, and/or an Environmental Impact Statement. These laws and regulations may also restrict our ability to produce natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil by, among other things, limiting the amount of natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil we can produce from our wells, limiting the number of wells we are allowed to drill or limiting the locations at which we can conduct our drilling operations. The regulatory burden on the natural gas and oil industry increases the cost of doing business in the industry and consequently affects profitability. Additionally, changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, disposal and clean-up requirements for the natural gas and oil industry could have a significant impact on our operating costs. We believe that operation of our wells is in substantial compliance with all current applicable environmental laws and regulations and that our continued compliance with existing requirements will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. However, we cannot provide any assurance on how future compliance with environmental laws and regulations may impact our properties or the operations. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we did not incur any material capital expenditures for installation of remediation or pollution control equipment at any of our facilities. As of the date of this Annual Report, we are not aware of any environmental issues or claims that will require material capital expenditures during 2010 or that will otherwise have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. Environmental laws and regulations that could have a material impact on our operations as well as the natural gas and oil exploration and production industry in general include the following: National Environmental Policy Act. Natural gas and oil exploitation and production activities on federal lands are subject to the National Environmental Policy Act, as amended, or “NEPA.” NEPA requires federal agencies, including the Department of Interior, to evaluate major agency actions having the potential to significantly impact the environment. In the course of such evaluations, an agency will typically prepare an Environmental Assessment to assess the potential direct, indirect and cumulative impacts of a proposed project and, if necessary, will prepare a more detailed Environmental Impact Statement that may be made available for public review and comment. Our current production activities, as well as proposed development plans, on federal lands require governmental permits or similar authorizations that are subject to the requirements of NEPA. This process has the potential to delay, limit or add to the cost of developing natural gas and oil projects. 11 Waste Handling. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as amended, or “RCRA,” and comparable state laws, regulate the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and cleanup of “hazardous wastes” as well as the disposal of non-hazardous wastes. Under the auspices of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or “EPA,” individual states administer some or all of the provisions of RCRA, sometimes in conjunction with their own, more stringent requirements. While drilling fluids, produced waters, and many other wastes associated with the exploitation, development, and production of crude oil, natural gas, or geothermal energy constitute “solid wastes,” which are regulated under the less stringent non-hazardous waste provisions of the RCRA, there is no assurance that the EPA or individual states will not in the future adopt more stringent and costly requirements for the handling of non-hazardous wastes or categorize some non-hazardous wastes as hazardous. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with the requirements of RCRA and related state and local laws and regulations. Although we do not believe the current costs of managing wastes generated by operation of our wells to be significant, any legislative or regulatory reclassification of natural gas and oil exploitation and production wastes could increase our costs to manage and dispose of such wastes. Hazardous Substance Releases. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as amended, also known as “CERCLA,” or “Superfund,” and analogous state laws, impose, under certain circumstances, joint and several liability, without regard to fault or legality of conduct, on persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a “hazardous substance” into the environment. These persons include the owner or operator of the site where the release occurred and companies that transported or disposed or arranged for the transportation or disposal of the hazardous substance at the site. Under CERCLA, such persons may be liable for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies. In addition, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment. While materials are generated in the course of operation of our wells that may be regulated as hazardous substances, we have not received any pending notifications that we may be potentially responsible for cleanup costs under CERCLA. We currently own, lease, or have a non-operating interest in numerous properties that have been used for natural gas and oil production for many years. Although we believe that operating and waste disposal practices have been used that were standard in the industry at the time, hazardous substances, wastes, or petroleum hydrocarbons have been released on or under the properties owned or leased by us, or on or under other locations, including off-site locations, where such substances have been taken for disposal. In addition, some of these properties have been operated by third parties or by previous owners or operators whose treatment and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes, or hydrocarbons was not under our control. These properties and the substances disposed or released on them may be subject to CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state laws. Under such laws, we could be required to remove previously disposed substances and wastes, remediate contaminated property, or perform remedial plugging or pit closure operations to prevent future contamination. Water Discharges. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, or “Clean Water Act,” and analogous state laws impose restrictions and strict controls on the discharge of pollutants, including produced waters and other natural gas and oil wastes, into state waters as well as waters of the United States. The discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by EPA or the relevant state. The Clean Water Act also prohibits the discharge of dredge and fill material in regulated waters, including wetlands, unless authorized by a permit issued by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. Federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for non-compliance with discharge permits or other requirements of the Clean Water Act and analogous state laws and regulations. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with the requirements of the Clean Water Act. Air Emissions. The Clean Air Act, as amended, and associated state laws and regulations, regulate emissions of various air pollutants through the issuance of permits and the imposition of other requirements. In addition, EPA has developed, and continues to develop, stringent regulations governing emissions of toxic air pollutants at specified sources. Some of our new facilities may be required to obtain permits before work can begin, and existing facilities may be required to incur capital costs in order to comply with new emission limitations. These regulations may increase the costs of compliance for some facilities, and federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for non-compliance. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with the requirements of the Clean Air Act. OSHA. We are subject to the requirements of the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act, as amended, or “OSHA,” and comparable state statutes. The OSHA hazard communication standard, EPA community right-to-know regulations under the Title III of CERCLA and similar state statutes require that we organize and/or disclose information about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with the applicable requirements of OSHA. Climate Change. In response to recent studies suggesting that emissions of certain gases, referred to as “greenhouse gases” and including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere, the current administration has expressed support for, and it is anticipated that the current session of the U.S. Congress is considering climate change-related legislation to restrict greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, at least one-third of the states, either individually or through multi-state initiatives, have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, primarily through the planned development of greenhouse gas emission inventories and/or greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. Depending on the particular program, we could be required to purchase and surrender allowances, for greenhouse gas emissions resulting from our operations. 12 Also, as a result of the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision in 2007 in Massachusetts, et al. v. EPA and certain provisions of the Clean Air Act, the EPA may regulate carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions from mobile sources such as cars and trucks, even if Congress does not adopt new legislation specifically addressing emissions of greenhouse gases. The Court’s holding in the Massachusetts decision that greenhouse gases including carbon dioxide fall under the federal Clean Air Act’s definition of “air pollutant” may also result in future regulation of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions from stationary sources under certain CAA programs. In July 2008, EPA released an “Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking” regarding possible future regulation of greenhouse gas emissions under the Clean Air Act, in response to the Supreme Court's decision in Massachusetts. Although the notice did not propose any specific, new regulatory requirements for greenhouse gases, it indicates that federal regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could occur in the near future even if Congress does not adopt new legislation specifically addressing emissions of greenhouse gases. New federal, regional or state laws requiring adoption of a stringent greenhouse gas control program or imposing restrictions on emissions of carbon dioxide in areas of the United States in which we conduct business could adversely affect our cost of doing business and demand for the natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil we produce. Other Regulation of the Natural Gas and Oil Industry The natural gas and oil industry is extensively regulated by numerous federal, state and local authorities. Legislation affecting the natural gas and oil industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden. Also, numerous departments and agencies, both federal and state, are authorized by statute to issue rules and regulations binding on the natural gas and oil industry and its individual members, some of which carry substantial penalties for failure to comply. Although the regulatory burden on the natural gas and oil industry increases our cost of doing business and, consequently, affects our profitability, these burdens generally do not affect us any differently or to any greater or lesser extent than they affect other companies in the industry with similar types, quantities and locations of production. Legislation continues to be introduced in Congress and development of regulations continues in the Department of Homeland Security and other agencies concerning the security of industrial facilities, including natural gas and oil facilities. Our operations may be subject to such laws and regulations. If in the future one or more of our facilities becomes subject to such legislation, then the cost to comply with such law could be substantial. Drilling and Production. Our operations are subject to various types of regulation at the federal, state and local levels. These types of regulation include requiring permits for the drilling of wells, drilling bonds and reports concerning operations. Most states, and some counties and municipalities, in which we operate also regulate one or more of the following: · the location of wells; · the method of drilling and casing wells; · the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled; · the plugging and abandoning of wells; and · notice to surface owners and other third parties. State laws regulate the size and shape of drilling and spacing units or proration units governing the pooling of natural gas and oil properties. Some states allow forced pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate exploitation while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases. In some instances, forced pooling or unitization may be implemented by third parties and may reduce our interest in the unitized properties. In addition, state conservation laws establish maximum rates of production from natural gas and oil wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of natural gas and impose requirements regarding the ratability of production. These laws and regulations may limit the amount of natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil we can produce from our wells or limit the number of wells or the locations at which we can drill. Moreover, each state generally imposes a production or severance tax with respect to the production and sale of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids within its jurisdiction. 13 Regulation of Transportation and Sales. The availability, terms and cost of transportation significantly affect sales of natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil. The interstate transportation of natural gas is subject to federal regulation primarily by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, or “FERC” under the Natural Gas Act of 1938, or the “NGA”. FERC regulates interstate natural gas pipeline transportation rates and service conditions, which may affect the marketing and sales of natural gas. FERC requires interstate pipelines to offer available firm transportation capacity on an open-access, non-discriminatory basis to all natural gas shippers. FERC frequently reviews and modifies its regulations regarding the transportation of natural gas with the stated goal of fostering competition within all phases of the natural gas industry. State laws and regulations generally govern the gathering and intrastate transportation of natural gas. Natural gas gathering systems in the states in which we operate are generally required to offer services on a non-discriminatory basis and are subject to state ratable take and common purchaser statutes. Ratable take statutes generally require gatherers to take, without undue discrimination, natural gas production that may be tendered to the gatherer for handling. Similarly, common purchaser statutes generally require gatherers to purchase without discrimination in favor of one producer over another producer or one source of supply over another source of supply. The ability to transport oil and natural gas liquids is generally dependent on pipelines whose rates, terms and conditions of service are subject to FERC jurisdiction under the Interstate Commerce Act, or subject to regulation by the particular state in which such transportation takes place. Laws and regulation applicable to pipeline transportation of oil largely require pipelines to charge just and reasonable rates published in agency-approved tariffs and require pipelines to provide non-discriminatory access and terms and conditions of service. The justness and reasonableness of interstate oil and natural gas liquid pipeline rates can be challenged at FERC through a protest or a complaint and, if such a protest or complaint results in a lower rate than that on file, pipeline shippers may be eligible to receive refunds or, in the case of a complaining shipper, reparations for the two-year period prior to the filing of the complaint. Certain regulations imposed by FERC, by the United States Department of Transportation and by other regulatory authorities on pipeline transporters in recent years could result in an increase in the cost of pipeline transportation service. We do not believe, however, that these regulations affect us any differently than other producers. Under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, or “EPAct 2005,” Congress made it unlawful for any entity, as defined in the EPAct 2005, including otherwise non-jurisdictional producers such as us, to use any deceptive or manipulative device or contrivance in connection with the purchase or sale of natural gas or the purchase or sale of transportation services regulated by the FERC that violates the FERC’s rules. FERC’s rules implementing EPAct 2005 make it unlawful for any entity, directly or indirectly, to use or employ any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud; to make any untrue statement of material fact or omit to make any such statement necessary to make the statements made not misleading; or to engage in any act or practice that operates as a fraud or deceit upon any person in connection with the purchase or sale of natural gas subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC, or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC. EPAct 2005 also gives the FERC authority to impose civil penalties for violations of the NGA and the Natural Gas Policy Act up to $1,000,000 per day per violation. Pursuant to authority granted to FERC by EPAct 2005, FERC has also put in place additional regulations intended to prevent market manipulation and to promote price transparency. For example, FERC has imposed new rules discussed below requiring wholesale purchasers and sellers of natural gas to report to FERC certain aggregated volume and other purchase and sales data for the previous calendar year. While EPAct 2005 reflects a significant expansion of the FERC’s enforcement authority, we do not anticipate that we will be affected by EPAct 2005 any differently than energy industry participants. In 2007, FERC issued a final rule on the annual natural gas transaction reporting requirements, as amended by subsequent orders on rehearing (“Order 704”). Under Order 704, wholesale buyers and sellers of more than 2.2 million MMBtu of physical natural gas in the previous calendar year, including interstate and intrastate natural gas pipelines, natural gas gatherers, natural gas processors and natural gas marketers are now required to report on Form No. 552, on May 1 of each year, aggregate volumes of natural gas purchased or sold at wholesale in the prior calendar year to the extent such transactions utilize, contribute to, or may contribute to the formation of price indices. It is the responsibility of the reporting entity to determine which individual transactions should be reported based on the guidance of Order 704. Pursuant to Order 704, we may be required to annually report to FERC, starting May 1 information regarding natural gas purchase and sale transactions depending on the volume of natural gas transacted during the prior calendar year. On August 6, 2009, the Federal Trade Commission, or “FTC”, issued a Final Rule prohibiting manipulative and deceptive conduct in the wholesale petroleum markets. The Final Rule applies to transactions in crude oil, gasoline, and petroleum distillates. The FTC promulgated the Final Rule pursuant to Section 811 of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 (“EISA”), which makes it unlawful for anyone, in connection with the wholesale purchase or sale of crude oil, gasoline, or petroleum distillates, to use any “manipulative or deceptive device or contrivance, in contravention of such rules and regulations as the Federal Trade Commission may prescribe.” The Final Rule prohibits any person, directly or indirectly, in connection with the purchase or sale of crude oil, gasoline, or petroleum distillates at wholesale, from: a) knowingly engaging in any act, practice, or course of business – including making any untrue statement of material fact that operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon any person; or b) intentionally failing to state a material fact that under the circumstances renders a statement made by such person misleading, provided that such omission distorts or is likely to distort market conditions for any such product. Additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the natural gas industry are pending before Congress, FERC and the courts. We cannot predict the ultimate impact of these or the above regulatory changes to our natural gas operations. We do not believe that we would be affected by any such FERC action materially differently than other natural gas companies with whom we compete. 14 The price at which we buy and sell natural gas is currently not subject to federal rate regulation and, for the most part, is not subject to state regulation. Sales of condensate and natural gas liquids are not currently regulated and are made at market prices. However, with regard to our physical purchases and sales of these energy commodities, and any related hedging activities that we undertake, we are required to observe anti-market manipulation laws and related regulations enforced by FERC and/or the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or “CFTC”. Should we violate the anti-market manipulation laws and regulations, we could also be subject to related third party damage claims by, among others, market participants, sellers, royalty owners and taxing authorities. Although natural gas prices are currently unregulated, Congress historically has been active in the area of natural gas regulation. We cannot predict whether new legislation to regulate natural gas might be proposed, what proposals, if any, might actually be enacted by Congress or the various state legislatures, and what effect, if any, the proposals might have on the operations of the underlying properties. The various states regulate the drilling for, and the production, gathering and sale of, natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil, including imposing severance and other production related taxes and requirements for obtaining drilling permits. For example, currently, a severance tax on natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil production is imposed at a rate of 4.5%, 3.0% and 3.75% in Kentucky, Tennessee and New Mexico, respectively. Texas currently imposes a 7.5% severance tax on gas production and 4.6% severance tax on oil production. States also regulate the method of developing new fields, the spacing and operation of wells and the prevention of waste of natural gas resources. States may regulate rates of production and may establish maximum daily production allowables from natural gas and oil wells based on market demand or resource conservation, or both. States do not currently regulate wellhead prices or engage in other similar direct economic regulation, but there can be no assurance that they will not do so in the future. The effect of these regulations may be to limit the amounts of natural gas, natural gas liquids or oil that may be produced from our wells, to increase our cost of production, to limit the number of wells or locations we can drill and to limit the availability of pipeline capacity to bring our products to market. The petroleum industry participants are also subject to compliance with various other federal, state and local regulations and laws. Some of these regulations and those laws relate to occupational safety, resource conservation and equal employment opportunity. We do not believe that compliance with these regulations and laws will have a material adverse effect upon the unitholders. Employees As of December 31, 2009, we had twelve full time employees. Nine of our employees work in our Houston office, two employees work in our office in Lovington, New Mexico and one employee works in our office in Christoval, Texas. Under a management services agreement with Vinland, we rely on Vinland’s employees to operate our existing producing wells in Appalachia and coordinate our development drilling program in Appalachia. In connection with the Permian Basin, Dos Hermanos, Sun TSH and Ward County acquisitions, we outsource the production accounting to a third party and operate 56 gross wells (54 net wells) in the Permian Basin. With respect to the Dos Hermanos and Sun TSH properties, an affiliate of Lewis manages the operations of all our wells and coordinates any drilling operations that might be conducted on the jointly owned leasehold interests. We also contract for the services of independent consultants involved in land, regulatory, tax, accounting, financial and other disciplines as needed. None of our employees are represented by labor unions or covered by any collective bargaining agreement. We believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory. Offices We entered into a new lease agreement in February 2010 for approximately 7,982 square feet of office space in Houston, Texas. The new lease for our Houston office expires in February 2013. Available Information Our website address is www.vnrllc.com. We make our website content available for information purposes only. It should not be relied upon for investment purposes, nor is it incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. We make available on this website under "Investor Relations-SEC Filings," free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file those materials with, or furnish those materials to, the SEC. The SEC also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding SEC registrants, including us. 15 You may also find information related to our corporate governance, board committees and company code of business conduct and ethics on our website. Among the information you can find there is the following: • Audit Committee Charter; • Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Charter; • Compensation Committee Charter; • Conflicts Committee Charter; • Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, and • Corporate Governance Guidelines. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business We may not have sufficient cash from operations to pay quarterly distributions on our common units following establishment of cash reserves and payment of operating costs. We may not have sufficient cash flow from operations each quarter to pay distributions. Under the terms of our limited liability company agreement, the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution will be reduced by our operating expenses and the amount of any cash reserve amounts that our board of directors establishes to provide for future operations, future capital expenditures, future debt service requirements and future cash distributions to our unitholders. The amount of cash we can distribute on our common units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: · the amount of natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil we produce; · the price at which we are able to sell our natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil production; · the level of our operating costs; · the level of our interest expense which depends on the amount of our indebtedness and the interest payable thereon; and · the level of our capital expenditures. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: · the level of our capital expenditures; · our ability to make working capital borrowings under our credit facility to pay distributions; · the cost of acquisitions, if any; · our debt service requirements; · fluctuations in our working capital needs; · timing and collectibility of receivables; · restrictions on distributions contained in our credit facility; · prevailing economic conditions; and · the amount of cash reserves established by our board of directors for the proper conduct of our business. As a result of these factors, the amount of cash we distribute in any quarter to our unitholders may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. If we do not achieve our expected operational results or cannot borrow the amounts needed, we may not be able to pay the full, or any, amount of the quarterly distribution, in which event the market price of our common units may decline substantially. 16 Our estimates of proved reserves have been prepared under new SEC rules which went into effect for fiscal years ending on or after December 31, 2009, which may make comparisons to prior periods difficult and could limit our ability to book additional proved undeveloped reserves in the future. This report presents estimates of our proved reserves as of December 31, 2009, which have been prepared and presented under new SEC rules. These new rules are effective for fiscal years ending on or after December 31, 2009, and require SEC reporting companies to prepare their reserves estimates using revised reserve definitions and revised pricing based on the twelve-month average price. The previous rules required that reserve estimates be calculated using last-day-of the-year pricing. The pricing that was used for estimates of our reserves as of December 31, 2009 was based on the 12-month average price for natural gas and oil of $3.87 per MMBtu for natural gas and $ 61.04 per barrel of crude oil, as compared to $5.71 per MMBtu for natural gas and $41.00 per Bbl for oil as of December 31, 2008. As a result of these changes, direct comparisons to our previously-reported reserves amounts may be more difficult. Another impact of the new SEC rules is a general requirement that, subject to limited exceptions, proved undeveloped reserves may only be booked if they relate to wells scheduled to be drilled within five years of the date of booking. This new rule has limited and may continue to limit our potential to book additional proved undeveloped reserves as we pursue our drilling program, particularly as we develop our significant acreage in the Permian Basin, South Texas and Appalachia. Moreover, we may be required to write down our proved undeveloped reserves if we do not drill on those reserves within the required five-year timeframe. The SEC has not reviewed our or any reporting company’s reserve estimates under the new rules and has released only limited interpretive guidance regarding reporting of reserve estimates under the new rules and may not issue further interpretive guidance on the new rules. Accordingly, while the estimates of our proved reserves at December 31, 2009 included in this report have been prepared based on what we and our independent reserve engineers believe to be reasonable interpretations of the new SEC rules, those estimates could differ materially from any estimates we might prepare applying more specific SEC interpretive guidance. We may not be able to obtain funding on acceptable terms or obtain funding under our reserve-based credit facility because of the deterioration of the credit and capital markets. This may hinder or prevent us from meeting our future capital needs. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile. The debt and equity capital markets have been exceedingly distressed. These issues, along with significant write-offs in the financial services sector, the re-pricing of credit risk and the current weak economic conditions have made, and will likely continue to make, it difficult to obtain funding. In particular, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially while the availability of funds from those markets generally has diminished significantly. Also, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets generally has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at maturity at all or on terms similar to our current debt and reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. In addition, we may be unable to obtain adequate funding under our reserve-based credit facility because our lending counterparties may be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that funding will be available if needed and to the extent required, on acceptable terms. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to grow our existing business, complete acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Growing the Company will require significant amounts of debt and equity financing, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. We plan to fund our growth through acquisitions with proceeds from sales of our debt and equity securities and borrowings under our reserve-based credit facility; however, we cannot be certain that we will be able to issue our debt and equity securities on terms or in the proportions that we expect, or at all, and we may be unable refinance our reserve-based credit facility when it expires. The cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased while the availability of funds from those markets generally has diminished. Also, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets generally has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, imposed tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at maturity at all or on terms similar to our current debt and reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. 17 A significant increase in our indebtedness, or an increase in our indebtedness that is proportionately greater than our issuances of equity, as well as the credit market and debt and equity capital market conditions discussed above could negatively impact our ability to remain in compliance with the financial covenants under our reserve-based credit facility which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we are unable to finance our growth as expected, we could be required to seek alternative financing, the terms of which may not be attractive to us, or not pursue growth opportunities. Our reserve-based credit facility has substantial restrictions and financial covenants and we may have difficulty obtaining additional credit, which could adversely affect our operations and our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. We are prohibited from borrowing under our reserve-based credit facility to pay distributions to unitholders if the amount of borrowings outstanding under our reserve-based credit facility reaches or exceeds 90% of the borrowing base. Our borrowing base is the amount of money available for borrowing, as determined semi-annually by our lenders in their sole discretion. The lenders will re-determine the borrowing base based on an engineering report with respect to our natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil reserves, which will take into account the prevailing natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil prices at such time. In the future, we may not be able to access adequate funding under our reserve-based credit facility as a result of (i) a decrease in our borrowing base due to the outcome of a subsequent borrowing base redetermination, or (ii) an unwillingness or inability on the part of our lending counterparties to meet their funding obligations. In December 2009, our borrowing base was set at $195.0 million. Our next borrowing base redetermination is scheduled for April 2010 utilizing our December 31, 2009 reserve report. A future decline in commodity prices could result in a redetermination lowering our borrowing base in the future and, in such case, we could be required to repay any indebtedness in excess of the borrowing base. We anticipate that if, at the time of any distribution, our borrowings equal or exceed 90% of the then-specified borrowing base, our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders in any such quarter will be solely dependent on our ability to generate sufficient cash from our operations. The lenders can unilaterally adjust the borrowing base and the borrowings permitted to be outstanding under our reserve-based credit facility. Any increase in the borrowing base requires the consent of all the lenders. Outstanding borrowings in excess of the borrowing base must be repaid immediately, or we must pledge other natural gas and oil properties as additional collateral. We do not currently have any substantial unpledged properties, and we may not have the financial resources in the future to make any mandatory principal prepayments required under our reserve-based credit facility. Natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil prices are volatile. A decline in natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil prices could adversely affect our financial position, financial results, cash flow, access to capital and ability to grow. Our future financial condition, revenues, results of operations, rate of growth and the carrying value of our natural gas and oil properties depend primarily upon the prices we receive for our natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil production and the prices prevailing from time to time for natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil. Prices also affect our cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to access funds under our reserve-based credit facility and through the capital markets. The amount available for borrowing under our reserve-based credit facility is subject to a borrowing base, which is determined by our lenders taking into account our estimated proved reserves and is subject to semi-annual redeterminations based on pricing models determined by the lenders at such time. The recent volatility in natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil prices has impacted the value of our estimated proved reserves and, in turn, the market values used by our lenders to determine our borrowing base. Further, because we have elected to use the full-cost accounting method, each quarter we must perform a “ceiling test” that is impacted by declining prices. Significant price declines could cause us to take one or more ceiling test write downs, which would be reflected as non-cash charges against current earnings. Natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil prices historically have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future, especially given current geopolitical and economic conditions. For example, the crude oil spot price per barrel for the period between January 1, 2009 and December 31, 2009 ranged from a high of $81.03 to a low of $34.03 and the NYMEX natural gas spot price per MMBtu for the period January 1, 2009 to December 31, 2009 ranged from a high of $6.07 to a low of $2.51. As of February 23, 2010, the crude oil spot price per barrel was $78.61 and the NYMEX natural gas spot price per MMBtu was $4.78. This price volatility affects the amount of our cash flow we have available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital. The prices for natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil are subject to a variety of factors, including: 18 · the level of consumer demand for natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil; · the domestic and foreign supply of natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil; · commodity processing, gathering and transportation availability, and the availability of refining capacity; · the price and level of imports of foreign crude natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil; · the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and to enforce crude oil price and production controls; · domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; · the price and availability of alternative fuel sources; · weather conditions; · political conditions or hostilities in oil and gas producing regions, including the Middle East, Africa and South America; · technological advances affecting energy consumption; and · worldwide economic conditions. Declines in natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil prices would not only reduce our revenue, but could reduce the amount of natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil that we can produce economically and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and reserves. We recorded a non-cash ceiling test impairment of natural gas and oil properties for the year ended December 31, 2009 of $110.2 million. The impairment for the first quarter 2009 was $63.8 million as a result of a decline in natural gas prices at the measurement date, March 31, 2009. This impairment was calculated based on prices of $3.65 per MMBtu for natural gas and $49.64 per barrel of crude oil. The Securities and Exchange Commission’s (“SEC”) Final Rule, “Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting,” which became effective December 31, 2009, changed the price used to calculate oil and gas reserves to a 12-month average price rather than a year-end price. As a result of declines in natural gas and oil prices based upon the 12-month average price, we recorded an impairment of $46.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2009. This impairment was calculated using the 12-month average price for natural gas and oil of $3.87 per MMBtu for natural gas and $ 61.04 per barrel of crude oil. If the gas and oil industry experiences significant price declines, we may, among other things, be unable to maintain or increase our borrowing capacity, repay current or future indebtedness or obtain additional capital on attractive terms, all of which can affect the value of our units. Unless we replace our reserves, our existing reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our cash flow from operations and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Producing natural gas and oil wells extract hydrocarbons from underground structures referred to as reservoirs. Reservoirs contain a finite volume of hydrocarbon reserves referred to as reserves in place. Based on prevailing prices and production technologies, only a fraction of reserves in place can be recovered from a given reservoir. The volume of the reserves in place that is recoverable from a particular reservoir is reduced as production from that well continues. The reduction is referred to as depletion. Ultimately, the economically recoverable reserves from a particular well will deplete entirely and the producing well will cease to produce and will be plugged and abandoned. In that event, we must replace our reserves. We do not intend to drill any development wells until market conditions allow for an adequate return on the drilling investment and only when we have sufficient liquidity to do so. As a result, unless we are able over the long-term to replace the reserves that are produced, investors in our units should consider the cash distributions that are paid on the units not merely as a “yield” on the units, but as a combination of both a return of capital and a return on investment. Investors in our units will have to obtain the return of capital invested out of cash flow derived from their investments in units during the period when reserves can be economically recovered. Accordingly, we give no assurances that the distributions our unitholders receive over the life of their investment will meet or exceed their initial capital investment. 19 Future price declines may result in a write down of our asset carrying values. Lower natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil prices may not only decrease our revenues, but also reduce the amount of natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil that we can produce economically. This may result in our having to make substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves. If this occurs, or if our estimates of development costs increase, production data factors change or drilling results deteriorate, accounting rules may require us to write down, as a non-cash charge to earnings, the carrying value of our natural gas properties for impairments. We are required to perform impairment tests on our assets whenever events or changes in circumstances lead to a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows that would indicate that the carry amount may not be recoverable or whenever management’s plans change with respect to those assets. We recorded a non-cash ceiling test impairment of natural gas and oil properties for the year ended December 31, 2009 of $110.2 million. The impairment for the first quarter 2009 was $63.8 million as a result of a decline in natural gas prices at the measurement date, March 31, 2009. This impairment was calculated based on prices of $3.65 per MMBtu for natural gas and $49.64 per barrel of crude oil. The SEC’s Final Rule, “Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting,” which became effective December 31, 2009, changed the price used to calculate oil and gas reserves to a 12-month average price rather than a year-end price. As a result of declines in natural gas and oil prices based upon the 12-month average price, we recorded an impairment of $46.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2009. This impairment was calculated using the 12-month average price for natural gas and oil of $3.87 per MMBtu for natural gas and $ 61.04 per barrel of crude oil. We may incur additional impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period taken and our ability to borrow funds under our reserve-based credit facility, which may affect our ability to fund our operations and acquire additional reserves, which may adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Lower natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil prices and other factors have resulted, and in the future may result, in ceiling test write downs and other impairments of our asset carrying values. We use the full cost method of accounting to report our natural gas and oil properties. Under this method, we capitalize the cost to acquire, explore for, and develop natural gas and oil properties. Under full cost accounting rules, the net capitalized costs of proved natural gas and oil properties may not exceed a “ceiling limit,” which is based upon the present value of estimated future net cash flows from proved reserves, discounted at 10%. If net capitalized costs of proved natural gas and oil properties exceed the ceiling limit, we must charge the amount of the excess to earnings. This is called a “ceiling test write down.” Under the accounting rules, we are required to perform a ceiling test each quarter. A ceiling test write down would not impact cash flow from operating activities, but it would reduce our members’ equity. The risk that we will be required to write down the carrying value of our natural gas and oil properties increases when oil and gas prices are low or volatile. In addition, write downs may occur if we experience substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves, or if estimated future development costs increase. For example, natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil prices were very volatile throughout 2009. We recorded a non-cash ceiling test impairment of natural gas and oil properties for the year ended December 31, 2009 of $110.2 million. The impairment for the first quarter 2009 was $63.8 million as a result of a decline in natural gas prices at the measurement date, March 31, 2009. This impairment was calculated based on prices of $3.65 per MMBtu for natural gas and $49.64 per barrel of crude oil. The SEC’s Final Rule, “Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting,” which became effective December 31, 2009, changed the price used to calculate oil and gas reserves to a 12-month average price rather than a year-end price. As a result of declines in natural gas and oil prices based upon the 12-month average price, we recorded an impairment of $46.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2009. This impairment was calculated using the 12-month average price for natural gas and oilof $3.87 per MMBtu for natural gas and $ 61.04 per barrel of crude oil. These and other factors could cause us to record additional write downs of our oil and natural gas properties and other assets in the future and incur additional charges against future earnings. Based on the 12-month average natural gas and oil prices through February 2010, we do not anticipate an impairment at March 31, 2010. Our acquisition activities will subject us to certain risks. During 2008 and 2009, we expanded our operations into the Permian Basin of west Texas and southeastern New Mexico and into south Texas. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: the validity of our assumptions about reserves, future production, revenues and costs, including synergies; an inability to integrate successfully the businesses we acquire; a decrease in our liquidity by using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions; a significant increase in our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance acquisitions; the assumption of unknown liabilities, losses or costs for which we are not indemnified or for which our indemnity is inadequate; the diversion of management’s attention to other business concerns; an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate our growing business and assets; the incurrence of other significant charges, such as impairment of other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges; unforeseen difficulties encountered in operating in new geographic areas; an increase in our costs or a decrease in our revenues associated with any potential royalty owner or landowner claims or disputes; and customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses. Our decision to acquire a property will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained from production reports and engineering studies, geophysical and geological analyses and seismic and other information, the results of which are often inconclusive and subject to various interpretations. Also, our reviews of acquired properties are inherently incomplete because it generally is not feasible to perform an in-depth review of the individual properties involved in each acquisition. Even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and potential. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as ground water contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. If our acquisitions do not generate increases in available cash per unit, our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders could materially decrease. 20 We rely on Vinland, an affiliate of our largest unitholder, to execute our drilling program in Appalachia. If Vinland fails to or inadequately performs, our operations will be disrupted and our costs could increase or our reserves may not be developed, reducing our future levels of production and our cash from operations, which could affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Effective as of January 5, 2007, we entered into various agreements with Vinland, an affiliate of our largest unitholder, under which we rely on Vinland to operate all of our existing producing wells and coordinate our development drilling program in Appalachia. For example, pursuant to a participation agreement that we have entered into with Vinland, Vinland generally has control over our drilling program in Appalachia and has the sole right to determine which wells are drilled until January 1, 2011. Under the agreements, Vinland will also advise and consult with us regarding all aspects of our production and development operations in Appalachia and provide us with administrative support services as necessary or useful for the operation of our business. If Vinland fails to or inadequately performs these functions, our operations in Appalachia will be disrupted and our costs could increase or our reserves may not be developed or properly developed, reducing our future levels of production and our cash from operations, which could affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Vinland controls our drilling program in Appalachia. Should we ask them to, Vinland has agreed to drill not less than 100 gross wells over the next year. Pursuant to a participation agreement that we have entered into with Vinland, Vinland generally has control over our drilling program in Appalachia and has the sole right to determine which wells are drilled until January 1, 2011. During this period, when favorable conditions for drilling exists, we will meet with Vinland on a quarterly basis to review Vinland’s proposal to drill not less than 25 nor more than 40 gross wells, in which we will own a 40% working interest, in any quarter. Up to 20% of the proposed wells may be carried over and added to the wells to be drilled in the subsequent quarter, provided that Vinland is required to drill at least 100 gross wells per calendar year. If Vinland proposes the drilling of less than 25 gross wells in any quarter, we have the right to propose the drilling of up to a total of 14 net wells, in which we will own a 100% working interest, in a given quarterly period. If Vinland drills its minimum commitment, we do not have the ability to drill our own additional wells in the AMI. If either party elects not to participate in the drilling of the proposed wells or future operations with respect to drilled wells, such party forfeits all right, title and interest in the natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil production that may be produced from such wells. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if both parties agree, no drilling is required. We could lose our interests in future wells if we fail to participate under our operating agreement with Lewis in the drilling of these wells. Under the terms of our operating agreement with Lewis, we may elect to forego participation in the future drilling of wells. Should we do so, we will become obligated to transfer without compensation all of our right, title and interest in those wells. We are exposed to the credit risk of Vinland and any material nonperformance by Vinland could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Effective January 5, 2007, we entered into several agreements with Vinland pursuant to which Vinland operates all of our existing producing wells in Appalachia and coordinates our development drilling program in Appalachia. In addition, Vinland generally has control over our drilling program in Appalachia and has the sole right to determine which wells are drilled until January 1, 2011. In the event Vinland becomes insolvent or declares bankruptcy, we would have to become the operator of our wells in Appalachia and pursue our own drilling program which would require additional employees and increased expenses. In addition, there are no restrictions on Nami from selling his ownership in Vinland to a third party that should, but may not perform under our agreements with Vinland. Any material nonperformance under our agreements with Vinland could materially and adversely impact our ability to operate and make distributions to our unitholders. The amount of cash that we have available for distribution to our unitholders depends primarily upon our cash flow and not our profitability. The amount of cash that we have available for distribution depends primarily on our cash flow, including cash from reserves and working capital or other borrowings, and not solely on our profitability, which is affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may be unable to pay distributions even when we record net income, and we may be able to pay distributions during periods when we incur net losses. 21 Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. No one can measure underground accumulations of natural gas or oil in an exact way. Natural gas and oil reserve engineering requires subjective estimates of underground accumulations of natural gas and/or oil and assumptions concerning future natural gas and oil prices, production levels, and operating and development costs. As a result, estimated quantities of proved reserves and projections of future production rates and the timing of development expenditures may prove to be inaccurate. Independent petroleum engineers prepare estimates of our proved reserves. Some of our reserve estimates are made without the benefit of a lengthy production history, which are less reliable than estimates based on a lengthy production history. Also, the calculation of estimated reserves requires certain assumptions regarding future natural gas and oil prices, production levels, and operating and development costs, any of which assumptions may prove incorrect. Any significant variance from these assumptions by actual figures could greatly affect our estimates of reserves, the economically recoverable quantities of natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil attributable to any particular group of properties, the classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery, and estimates of the future net cash flows. For example, if natural gas prices decline by $1.00 per MMBtu and oil prices declined by $6.00 per barrel, the standardized measure of our proved reserves as of December 31, 2009 would decrease from $178.7 million to $115.8 million, based on price sensitivity generated from an internal evaluation. Our standardized measure is calculated using unhedged natural gas and oil prices and is determined in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC. Numerous changes over time to the assumptions on which our reserve estimates are based, as described above, often result in the actual quantities of natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil we ultimately recover being different from our reserve estimates. The present value of future net cash flows from our proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated natural gas reserves. We base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves using a 12-month average price and costs in effect on the day of the estimate. However, actual future net cash flows from our natural gas and oil properties will be affected by factors such as: · the volume, pricing and duration of our natural gas and oil hedging contracts; · supply of and demand for natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil; · actual prices we receive for natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil; · our actual operating costs in producing natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil; · the amount and timing of our capital expenditures; · the amount and timing of actual production; and · changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of natural gas and oil properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the natural gas and oil industry in general. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to unitholders. Our operations require substantial capital expenditures, which will reduce our cash available for distribution. We may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in our reserves and adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. The natural gas and oil industry is capital intensive. We have made and ultimately expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures in our business for the development, production and acquisition of natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil reserves. These expenditures will reduce our cash available for distribution. We intend to finance our future capital expenditures with cash flow from operations and our financing arrangements. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including: 22 · our proved reserves; · the level of natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil we are able to produce from existing wells; · the prices at which our natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil is sold; and · our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves. If our revenues or the borrowing base under our reserve-based credit facility decrease as a result of lower natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels or to replace or add to our reserves. Our reserve-based credit facility restricts our ability to obtain new debt financing. If additional capital is needed, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. If cash generated by operations or available under our reserve-based credit facility is not sufficient to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to development of our prospects, which in turn could lead to a possible decline in our reserves and production and a reduction in our cash available for distribution. Our business depends on gathering and compression facilities owned by third parties and transportation facilities owned by Delta Natural Gas, Columbia Gas Transmission, Enterprise Products Partners, LP and other third-party transporters and we rely on third parties to gather and deliver our natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil to certain designated interconnects with third-party transporters. Any limitation in the availability of those facilities or delay in providing interconnections to newly drilled wells would interfere with our ability to market the natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil we produce and could reduce our revenues and cash available for distribution. The marketability of our natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipeline systems owned by third parties in the respective operating areas. The amount of natural gas that can be produced and sold is subject to curtailment in certain circumstances, such as pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, excessive pressure, physical damage to the gathering, compression or transportation system, or lack of contracted capacity on such systems. The curtailments arising from these and similar circumstances may last from a few days to several months. In many cases, we are provided only with limited, if any, notice as to when these circumstances will arise and their duration. In addition, some of our wells are drilled in locations that are not serviced by gathering and transportation pipelines, or the gathering and transportation pipelines in the area may not have sufficient capacity to transport the additional production. As a result, we may not be able to sell the natural gas production from these wells until the necessary gathering and transportation systems are constructed. Any significant curtailment in gathering system or pipeline capacity, or significant delay in the construction of necessary gathering, compression and transportation facilities, could reduce our revenues and cash available for distribution. Our sales of natural gas, natural gas liquids, oil and other energy commodities, and related hedging activities, expose us to potential regulatory risks. The FTC, FERC and the CFTC hold statutory authority to monitor certain segments of the physical and futures energy commodities markets. These agencies have imposed broad regulations prohibiting fraud and manipulation of such markets. With regard to our physical sales of natural gas, natural gas liquids, oil or other energy commodities, and any related hedging activities that we undertake, we are required to observe the market-related regulations enforced by these agencies, which hold substantial enforcement authority. Our sales may also be subject to certain reporting and other requirements. Failure to comply with such regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. We are subject to FERC requirements related to our use of capacity on natural gas pipelines that are subject to FERC regulation. Any failure on our part to comply with the FERC’s regulations and policies, or with an interstate pipeline’s tariff, could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties. Climate change legislation, regulatory initiatives and litigation may adversely affect our operations, our cost structure, or the demand for oil and gas. On April 17, 2009, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or “EPA,” issued a notice of its proposed finding and determination that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane, and other greenhouse gases, or “GHGs,” presented an endangerment to human health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to EPA, contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere. Once finalized, EPA’s finding and determination would allow it to begin regulating emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. Although it may take EPA several years to adopt and impose regulations limiting emissions of GHGs, any limitation on emissions of GHGs from our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of GHGs associated with our operations. In addition, on June 26, 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed House Bill 2454, also referred to as the “Waxman-Markey legislation” but formally named the “American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009,” which would establish an economy-wide cap-and-trade program to reduce U.S. emissions of carbon dioxide and other GHGs by 17 percent from 2005 levels by 2020 and just over 80 percent by 2050. President Obama is encouraging the Senate to consider climate change legislation during the fall of 2009. Further, on September 21, 2009 a U.S. Federal appellate court reinstated a lawsuit filed by several state attorneys general and others against five of the largest U.S. electric utility companies alleging that those companies have created a public nuisance due to their emissions of carbon dioxide. Although it is not possible at this time to predict if and when the Senate may act on climate change legislation, how any bill passed by the Senate would be reconciled with House Bill 2454 or what effect, if any, the recent decision permitting a nuisance lawsuit to proceed against certain utilities may have on the oil and gas industry, any future federal laws or implementing regulations that may be adopted to address greenhouse gas emissions, as well as future climate change litigation against us or our customers for GHG emissions, could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, and could have an adverse effect on demand for the natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil we produce. 23 The adoption of derivatives legislation by Congress could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. Congress is currently considering legislation to impose restrictions on certain transactions involving derivatives, which could affect the use of derivatives in hedging transactions. ACESA contains provisions that would prohibit private energy commodity derivative and hedging transactions. ACESA would expand the power of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or CFTC, to regulate derivative transactions related to energy commodities, including oil and natural gas, and to mandate clearance of such derivative contracts through registered derivative clearing organizations. Under ACESA, the CFTC’s expanded authority over energy derivatives would terminate upon the adoption of general legislation covering derivative regulatory reform. The CFTC is considering whether to set limits on trading and positions in commodities with finite supply, particularly energy commodities, such as crude oil, natural gas and other energy products. The CFTC also is evaluating whether position limits should be applied consistently across all markets and participants. Separately, the House of Representatives adopted financial regulatory reform legislation on December 11, 2009, that, among other things, would impose comprehensive regulation on the over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives marketplace. This legislation would subject swap dealers and “major swap participants” to substantial supervision and regulation, including capital standards, margin requirements, business conduct standards, and recordkeeping and reporting requirements. It also would require central clearing for transactions entered into between swap dealers or major swap participants, and would provide the CFTC with authority to impose position limits in the OTC derivatives markets. A major swap participant generally would be someone other than a dealer who maintains a “substantial” net position in outstanding swaps, excluding swaps used for commercial hedging or for reducing or mitigating commercial risk, or whose positions create substantial net counterparty exposure that could have serious adverse effects on the financial stability of the US banking system or financial markets. Although it is not possible at this time to predict whether or when Congress may act on derivatives legislation or how any climate change bill approved by the Senate would be reconciled with ACESA, any laws or regulations that may be adopted that subject us to additional capital or margin requirements relating to, or to additional restrictions on, our trading and commodity positions could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business or on the cost of our hedging activity. We depend on certain key customers for sales of our natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil. To the extent these and other customers reduce the volumes of natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil they purchase from us, or to the extent these customers cease to be creditworthy, our revenues and cash available for distribution could decline. For the year ended December 31, 2009, sales of natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil to Seminole Energy Services, Osram Sylvania, Inc., Plains Marketing L.P., Sunoco Partners Marketing and Terminals, L.P. and Occidental Energy Marketing, Inc. accounted for approximately 35%, 9%, 7%, 5% and 2%, respectively, of our natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil revenues. Our top five purchasers during the year ended December 31, 2009, therefore accounted for 58% of our total revenues. To the extent these and other customers reduce the volumes of natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil that they purchase from us and they are not replaced in a timely manner with a new customer, our revenues and cash available for distribution could decline. Because we handle natural gas and other petroleum products, we may incur significant costs and liabilities in the future resulting from a failure to comply with new or existing environmental regulations or an accidental release of hazardous substances into the environment. The operations of our wells are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These include, for example: · the federal Clean Air Act and comparable state laws and regulations that impose obligations related to air emissions; · the federal Clean Water Act and comparable state laws and regulations that impose obligations related to discharges of pollutants into regulated bodies of water; · RCRA and comparable state laws that impose requirements for the handling and disposal of waste from our facilities; and · CERCLA and comparable state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or at locations to which we have sent hazardous substances for disposal. 24 Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements, and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. Certain environmental statutes, including the RCRA, CERCLA, the federal Oil Pollution Act and analogous state laws and implementing regulations, impose strict, and under certain circumstances, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where hazardous substances or wastes have been disposed of or otherwise released. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property or natural resource damage allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances or other waste products into the environment. We may incur significant environmental costs and liabilities due to the nature of our business and the hazardous substances and wastes associated with operation of the wells. For example, an accidental release of petroleum hydrocarbons from one of our wells could subject us to substantial liabilities arising from environmental cleanup and restoration costs, claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury, property and natural resource damage, and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. Moreover, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. We may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance. Please read “Item 1—Business—Operations—Environmental Matters and Regulation.” Our future distributions and proved reserves will be dependent upon the success of our efforts to prudently acquire, manage and develop natural gas and oil properties that conform to the acquisition profile described in this Annual Report. In addition to ownership of the properties currently owned by us, unless we acquire properties in the future containing additional proved reserves or successfully develop proved reserves on our existing properties, our proved reserves will decline as the reserves attributable to the underlying properties are produced. In addition, if the costs to develop or operate our properties increase, the estimated proved reserves associated with properties will be reduced below the level that would otherwise be estimated. We will manage and develop our properties, and the ultimate value to us of such properties which we acquire will be dependent upon the price we pay and our ability to prudently acquire, manage and develop such properties. As a result, our future cash distributions will be dependent to a substantial extent upon our ability to prudently acquire, manage and develop such properties. Suitable acquisition candidates may not be available on terms and conditions that we find acceptable, we may not be able to obtain financing for certain acquisitions, and acquisitions pose substantial risks to our businesses, financial conditions and results of operations. Even if future acquisitions are completed, the following are some of the risks associated with acquisitions, which could reduce the amount of cash available from the affected properties: · some of the acquired properties may not produce revenues, reserves, earnings or cash flow at anticipated levels; · we may assume liabilities that were not disclosed or that exceed their estimates; · we may be unable to integrate acquired properties successfully and may not realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits in a timely manner, which could result in substantial costs and delays or other operational, technical or financial problems; · acquisitions could disrupt our ongoing business, distract management, divert resources and make it difficult to maintain our current business standards, controls and procedures; and · we may incur additional debt related to future acquisitions. Substantial acquisitions or other transactions could require significant external capital and could change our risk and property profile. 25 A principal component of our business strategy is to grow our asset base and production through the acquisition of natural gas and oil properties characterized by long-lived, stable production. The character of newly acquired properties may be substantially different in operating or geological characteristics or geographic location than our existing properties. The changes in the characteristics and risk profiles of such new properties will in turn affect our risk profile, which may negatively affect our ability to issue equity or debt securities in order to fund future acquisitions and may inhibit our ability to renegotiate our existing credit facilities on favorable terms. Locations that we or the operators of our properties decide to drill may not yield natural gas or oil in commercially viable quantities. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a well. Our efforts will be uneconomical if we or the operators of our properties drill dry holes or wells that are productive but do not produce enough to be commercially viable after drilling, operating and other costs. If we or the operators of our properties drill future wells that we identify as dry holes, our drilling success rate would decline and may adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to pay future cash distributions at expected levels. Many of our leases are in areas that have been partially depleted or drained by offset wells. Many of our leases are in areas that have already been partially depleted or drained by earlier offset drilling. This may inhibit our ability to find economically recoverable quantities of natural gas or oil in these areas. Our identified drilling location inventories are scheduled out over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling, resulting in temporarily lower cash from operations, which may impact our ability to pay distributions. Our management has specifically identified and scheduled drilling locations as an estimation of our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage. As of December 31, 2009, we have identified 470 proved undeveloped drilling locations and over 205 additional drilling locations. These identified drilling locations represent a significant part of our strategy. We do not intend to drill any development wells until market conditions allow for an adequate return on the drilling investment and only when we have sufficient liquidity to do so. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, natural gas prices, drilling and operating costs and drilling results. In addition, NSAI and D&M have not assigned any proved reserves to the over 205 unproved drilling locations we have identified and scheduled for drilling and therefore there may exist greater uncertainty with respect to the success of drilling wells at these drilling locations. Our final determination on whether to drill any of these drilling locations will be dependent upon the factors described above as well as, to some degree, the results of our drilling activities with respect to our proved drilling locations. Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if the numerous drilling locations we have identified will be drilled within our expected timeframe or will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce natural gas or oil from these or any other potential drilling locations. As such, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified, which could adversely affect our business. Drilling for and producing natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations and, as a result, our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. Our drilling activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that we will not discover commercially productive reservoirs. Drilling for natural gas or oil can be uneconomical, not only from dry holes, but also from productive wells that do not produce sufficient revenues to be commercially viable. In addition, our drilling and producing operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of other factors, including: · the high cost, shortages or delivery delays of equipment and services; · unexpected operational events; · adverse weather conditions; 26 · facility or equipment malfunctions; · title problems; · pipeline ruptures or spills; · compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; · unusual or unexpected geological formations; · loss of drilling fluid circulation; · formations with abnormal pressures; · fires; · blowouts, craterings and explosions; · uncontrollable flows of natural gas or well fluids; and · pipeline capacity curtailments. Any of these events can cause substantial losses, including personal injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution, environmental contamination, loss of wells and regulatory penalties. We ordinarily maintain insurance against various losses and liabilities arising from our operations; however, insurance against all operational risks is not available to us. Additionally, we may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the perceived risks presented. Losses could therefore occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse impact on our business activities, financial condition and results of operations. We may incur substantial additional debt in the future to enable us to pursue our business plan and to pay distributions to our unitholders. Our business requires a significant amount of capital expenditures to maintain and grow production levels. Commodity prices have historically been volatile, and we cannot predict the prices we will be able to realize for our production in the future. As a result, we may borrow, to the extent available, significant amounts under our reserve-based credit facility in the future to enable us to pay quarterly distributions. Significant declines in our production or significant declines in realized natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil prices for prolonged periods and resulting decreases in our borrowing base may force us to reduce or suspend distributions to our unitholders. If we borrow to pay distributions, we are distributing more cash than we are generating from our operations on a current basis. This means that we are using a portion of our borrowing capacity under our reserve-based credit facility to pay distributions rather than to maintain or expand our operations. If we use borrowings under our reserve-based credit facility to pay distributions for an extended period of time rather than toward funding capital expenditures and other matters relating to our operations, we may be unable to support or grow our business. Such a curtailment of our business activities, combined with our payment of principal and interest on our future indebtedness to pay these distributions, will reduce our cash available for distribution on our common units. If we borrow to pay distributions during periods of low commodity prices and commodity prices remain low, we may have to reduce or suspend our distribution in order to avoid excessive leverage and debt covenant violations. Seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations adversely affect our ability to conduct drilling activities in some of the areas where we operate. Natural gas operations in the Appalachian Basin are adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions, primarily in the winter and spring. Many municipalities impose weight restrictions on the paved roads that lead to our jobsites due to the muddy conditions caused by spring thaws. This limits our access to these jobsites and our ability to service wells in these areas. Our price risk management activities could result in financial losses or could reduce our income, which may adversely affect our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. We enter into derivative contracts to reduce the impact of natural gas and oil price volatility on our cash flow from operations. Currently, we use a combination of fixed-price swaps and NYMEX collars to mitigate the volatility of future natural gas and oil prices received. Please read “Item 1—Operations— Price Risk Management Activities” and “Item 7A—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk.” 27 Our actual future production may be significantly higher or lower than we estimate at the time we enter into derivative contracts for such period. If the actual amount of production is higher than we estimate, we will have greater commodity price exposure than we intended. If the actual amount of production is lower than the notional amount that is subject to our derivative financial instruments, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our derivative transactions without the benefit of the cash flow from our sale of the underlying physical commodity, resulting in a substantial diminution of our liquidity. As a result of these factors, our hedging activities may not be as effective as we intend in reducing the volatility of our cash flows, and in certain circumstances may actually increase the volatility of our cash flows. In addition, our price risk management activities are subject to the following risks: · a counterparty may not perform its obligation under the applicable derivative instrument; · there may be a change in the expected differential between the underlying commodity price in the derivative instrument and the actual price received; and · the steps we take to monitor our derivative financial instruments may not detect and prevent violations of our risk management policies and procedures If the Asher lease is terminated or if Nami Resource LLC’s rights to production under wells in which we have a contract right to receive proceeds from the sale of production are adversely affected, we could lose our contract right to receive proceeds from the sale of production or it could be adversely affected. Nami Resources, LLC, a subsidiary of our Predecessor that was retained by our founding unitholder, has been involved in an ongoing dispute with Asher Land and Mineral Company, Ltd., (“Asher”), pursuant to which Asher claims that Nami Resources Company, LLC did not correctly calculate the royalties paid to it and that it failed to abide by certain terms of the leases relating to the coordination of oil and gas development with coal development activities. As part of our separation from Vinland, we received from Nami Resources Company, LLC a contract right to receive approximately 99% of the net proceeds, after deducting royalties paid to other parties, severance taxes, third-party transportation costs, costs incurred in the operation of wells and overhead costs, from the sale of production from certain producing oil and gas wells located within the Asher lease, which accounted for 1.7% of our proved developed reserves as of December 31, 2009. The Asher lease and the litigation related thereto were retained by Nami Resources Company, LLC. If the Asher lease is terminated or if Nami Resources Company, LLC rights to production under wells in which we have a contract right to receive proceeds from the sale of production are adversely affected, we could lose our contract right to receive proceeds from the sale of production or it could be adversely affected. We are exposed to trade credit risk in the ordinary course of our business activities. We are exposed to risks of loss in the event of nonperformance by our vendors, customers and by counterparties to our price risk management arrangements. Some of our vendors, customers and counterparties may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. Many of our vendors, customers and counterparties finance their activities through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. Recently, there has been a significant decline in the credit markets and the availability of credit. Additionally, many of our vendors’, customers’ and counterparties' equity values have substantially declined. The combination of reduction of cash flow resulting from declines in commodity prices and the lack of availability of debt or equity financing may result in a significant reduction in our vendors’, customers’ and counterparties' liquidity and ability to make payments or perform on their obligations to us. Even if our credit review and analysis mechanisms work properly, we may experience financial losses in our dealings with other parties. Any increase in the nonpayment or nonperformance by our vendors, customers and/or counterparties could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We depend on senior management personnel, each of whom would be difficult to replace. We depend on the performance of Scott W. Smith, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Richard A. Robert, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Britt Pence, our Vice President of Engineering. We maintain no key person insurance for either Mr. Smith, Mr. Robert or Mr. Pence. The loss of any or all of Messrs. Smith, Robert and Pence could negatively impact our ability to execute our strategy and our results of operations. 28 We may be unable to compete effectively with larger companies, which may adversely affect our ability to generate sufficient revenue to allow us to pay distributions to our unitholders. The natural gas and oil industry is intensely competitive, and we compete with other companies that have greater resources. Our ability to acquire additional properties and to discover reserves in the future will be dependent upon our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Many of our larger competitors not only drill for and produce natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil, but also carry on refining operations and market petroleum and other products on a regional, national or worldwide basis. These companies may be able to pay more for natural gas and oil properties and evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties than our financial or human resources permit. In addition, these companies may have a greater ability to continue drilling activities during periods of low natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil prices and to absorb the burden of present and future federal, state, local and other laws and regulations. Our inability to compete effectively with larger companies could have a material adverse impact on our business activities, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Our operations are regulated extensively at the federal, state and local levels. Environmental and other governmental laws and regulations have increased the costs to plan, design, drill, install, operate and abandon natural gas and oil wells. Under these laws and regulations, we could also be liable for personal injuries, property and natural resource damage and other damages. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Moreover, public interest in environmental protection has increased in recent years, and environmental organizations have opposed, with some success, certain drilling projects. Part of the regulatory environment in which we operate includes, in some cases, legal requirements for obtaining environmental assessments, environmental impact studies and/or plans of development before commencing drilling and production activities. In addition, our activities are subject to the regulations regarding conservation practices and protection of correlative rights. These regulations affect our operations and limit the quantity of natural gas we may produce and sell. A major risk inherent in our drilling plans is the need to obtain drilling permits from state and local authorities. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals or drilling permits, the failure to obtain a drilling permit for a well or the receipt of a permit with unreasonable conditions or costs could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop our properties. Additionally, the natural gas and oil regulatory environment could change in ways that might substantially increase the financial and managerial costs of compliance with these laws and regulations and, consequently, adversely affect our profitability. At this time, we cannot predict the effect of this increase on our results of operations. Furthermore, we may be put at a competitive disadvantage to larger companies in our industry that can spread these additional costs over a greater number of wells and larger operating staff. Please read “Item1—Business—Operations—Environmental Matters and Regulation” and “Business—Operations—Other Regulation of the Natural Gas and Oil Industry” for a description of the laws and regulations that affect us. Shortages of drilling rigs, supplies, oilfield services, equipment and crews could delay our operations and reduce our cash available for distribution. Higher natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil prices generally increase the demand for drilling rigs, supplies, services, equipment and crews, and can lead to shortages of, and increasing costs for, drilling equipment, services and personnel. In the past, we and other natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil companies have experienced higher drilling and operating costs. Shortages of, or increasing costs for, experienced drilling crews and equipment and services could restrict our ability to drill the wells and conduct the operations that we currently have planned. Sustained periods of lower natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil prices could bring about the closure or downsizing of entities providing drilling services, supplies, oil field services, equipment and crews. Any delay in the drilling of new wells or significant increase in drilling costs could reduce our revenues and cash available for distribution. Risks Related to Our Structure Mr. Nami, who together with certain of his affiliates and related persons, own approximately 15.2% of our outstanding common units and may have conflicts of interest with us. The ultimate resolution of any such conflict of interest may result in favoring the interests of these other parties over our unitholders’ and may be to our detriment. Our limited liability company agreement limits the remedies available to our unitholders in the event unitholders have a claim relating to conflicts of interest. Conflicts of interest may arise between Nami and his affiliates, including Vinland, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. These potential conflicts may relate to the divergent interests of these parties. Situations in which the interests of Nami and his affiliates, including Vinland may differ from interests of owners of units include, among others, the following situations: 29 · none of our limited liability company agreement, management services agreement, participation agreement nor any other agreement requires Nami or any of his affiliates, including Vinland, to pursue a business strategy that favors us. Directors and officers of Vinland and its subsidiaries have a fiduciary duty while acting in the capacity as such director or officer of Vinland or such subsidiary to make decisions in the best interests of the members or stockholders of Vinland, which may be contrary to our best interests; · we rely on Vinland to operate and develop our properties in Appalachia; · we depend on Vinland to gather, compress, deliver and provide services necessary for us to market our natural gas in Appalachia; and · Nami and his affiliates, including Vinland, are not prohibited from investing or engaging in other businesses or activities that compete with us. If in resolving conflicts of interest that exist or arise in the future our board of directors or officers, as the case may be, satisfy the applicable standards set forth in our limited liability company agreement for resolving conflicts of interest, unitholders will not be able to assert that such resolution constituted a breach of fiduciary duty owed to us or to unitholders by our board of directors and officers. We may issue additional units without unitholder approval, which would dilute their existing ownership interests. We may issue an unlimited number of limited liability company interests of any type, including units, without the approval of our unitholders. The issuance of additional units or other equity securities may have the following effects: · the proportionate ownership interest of unitholders in us may decrease; · the amount of cash distributed on each unit may decrease; · the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and · the market price of the units may decline. Our limited liability company agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our units. Our limited liability company agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders by providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our founding unitholder and his affiliates or transferees and persons who acquire such units with the prior approval of the board of directors, cannot vote on any matter. Our limited liability agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Our limited liability company agreement provides for a limited call right that may require unitholders to sell their units at an undesirable time or price. If, at any time, any person owns more than 90% of the units then outstanding, such person has the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the remaining units then outstanding at a price not less than the then-current market price of the units. As a result, unitholders may be required to sell their units at an undesirable time or price and therefore may receive a lower or no return on their investment. Unitholders may also incur tax liability upon a sale of their units. The price of our common units could be subject to wide fluctuations, unitholders could lose a significant part of their investment. During 2009, our unit price increased from a closing low of $6.35 on January 2, 2009 to a closing high of $22.07 on December 31, 2009. The market price of our common units is subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot control, including: 30 · fluctuations in broader securities market prices and volumes, particularly among securities of natural gas and oil companies and securities of publicly traded limited partnerships and limited liability companies; · changes in general conditions in the U.S. economy, financial markets or the natural gas and oil industry; · changes in securities analysts’ recommendations and their estimates of our financial performance; · the public’s reaction to our press releases, announcements and our filings with the SEC; · changes in market valuations of similar companies; · departures of key personnel; · commencement of or involvement in litigation; · variations in our quarterly results of operations or those of other natural gas and oil companies; · variations in the amount of our quarterly cash distributions; and · future issuances and sales of our units. In recent years, the securities market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Future market fluctuations may result in a lower price of our common units. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 18-607 of the Delaware Revised Limited Liability Company Act, or the “Delaware Act,” we may not make a distribution to unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of an impermissible distribution, members or unitholders who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited liability company for the distribution amount. A purchaser of common units who becomes a member or unitholder is liable for the obligations of the transferring member to make contributions to the limited liability company that are known to such purchaser of units at the time it became a member and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from our limited liability company agreement. An increase in interest rates may cause the market price of our common units to decline. Like all equity investments, an investment in our common units is subject to certain risks. In exchange for accepting these risks, investors may expect to receive a higher rate of return than would otherwise be obtainable from lower-risk investments. Accordingly, as interest rates rise, the ability of investors to obtain higher risk-adjusted rates of return by purchasing government-backed debt securities may cause a corresponding decline in demand for riskier investments generally, including yield-based equity investments such as publicly-traded limited liability company interests. Reduced demand for our units resulting from investors seeking other more favorable investment opportunities may cause the trading price of our common units to decline. Tax Risks to Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or we were to become subject to additional amounts of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, taxes paid, if any, would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter that affects us. Despite the fact that we are a limited liability company (LLC) under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for an LLC such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. Although we do not believe based upon our current operations that we are so treated, a change in our business (or a change in current law) could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. 31 If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rates, currently at a maximum rate of 35%, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gain, loss, deduction or credit would flow through to unitholders. Because a tax may be imposed on us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders could be reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Current law or our business may change so as to cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation. At the federal level, legislation has been recently considered that would have eliminated partnership tax treatment for certain publicly traded LLCs. Although such legislation would not have appeared to have applied to us as currently proposed, it could be reconsidered in a manner that would apply to us. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will be reintroduced or will ultimately be enacted. Moreover, any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our units. At the state level, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships and limited liability companies to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. For example, we are required to pay Texas franchise tax which is assessed on Texas sourced taxable margin defined as the lesser of (i) 70% of total revenue or (ii) total revenue less (a) cost of goods sold or (b) compensation and benefits. If any other state were to impose a tax upon us as an entity, the cash available for distribution to unitholders would be reduced. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our units may be adversely impacted and the costs of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter that affects us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take and a court may disagree with some or all of those positions. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will result in a reduction in cash available for distribution to our unitholders and thus will be borne indirectly by our unitholders. Unitholders may be required to pay taxes on income from us even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, unitholders will be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income, whether or not they receive cash distributions from us. Unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from their share of our taxable income. Tax gain or loss on disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If unitholders sell their common units, they will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of a unitholder’s allocable share of our net taxable income decreases the tax basis in the unitholder’s common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units they sell will, in effect, become taxable income to them if they sell such units at a price greater than their tax basis in those units, even if the price they receive is less than their original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if a unitholders sells their units, they may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash they receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in units by tax-exempt entities, including employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to such a unitholder. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes imposed at the highest effective applicable tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file United States federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If you are a tax exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our units. 32 We treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform with all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain on the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audits of and adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, he may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same interest will be counted only once. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and our unitholders could receive two Schedules K-1) for one fiscal year and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax election and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred. As a result of investing in our common units, you may become subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where we operate or own or acquire property. In addition to federal income taxes, you will likely be subject to other taxes, including foreign, state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if you do not live in any of those jurisdictions. You will likely be required to file foreign, state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, you may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently own property and conduct business in Kentucky, New Mexico, Tennessee and Texas. Each of these states, other than Texas, imposes an income tax on individuals. Most of these states also impose an income tax on corporations and other entities. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is your responsibility to file all United States federal, foreign, state and local tax returns. 33 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 