Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business and an investment in our securities are subject to a variety of risks. The following risk factors describe the most significant events, facts or circumstances that could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to implement our business plan, and the market price for our securities. Many of these events are outside of our control. If any of these risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operation may be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and investors in our common stock could lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to Our Business The markets we serve are subject to seasonality and cyclical demand, which could harm our business and make it difficult to project long-term performance. Demand for our products depends in large part upon the level of capital and maintenance expenditures of our customers and end users. These expenditures have historically been cyclical in nature and vulnerable to economic downturns. Decreased capital and maintenance spending by our customers could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products and our business, financial condition and results of operations. In particular, an economic slowdown in the domestic economy may result in reduced orders for PHEs from the steel processing and petrochemical sectors and lower orders for PHE Units from the HVAC sector. To date, we have not been adversely affected by these trends and, given the current demand visibility, we do not currently foresee weakening in the demand for our products in the next year. However, the historically cyclical nature of the demand for our products limits our ability to make accurate long-term predictions about our performance. Changing world economic and political conditions may also reduce the willingness of our customers and prospective customers to purchase our products and services. The seasonality of our business results in significant operational challenges to our production and inventory control functions. 8 Our accounts receivables remain outstanding for a significant period of time, which has a negative impact on our cash flow and liquidity. Our agreements with our customers generally provide that 30% of the purchase price is due upon the placement of an order, 30% upon delivery and 30% upon installation and acceptance of the equipment after customer testing. As a common practice in the heating manufacturing business in China, payment of the final 10% of the purchase price is due no later than the termination date of the standard warranty period, which ranges from 3 to 24 months from the acceptance date. We may experience payment delays from time to time, which range from 1 to 3 months from the due date. While these payment delays are very common in the heating manufacturing industry in China and historically our collections have been reasonably assured, such delays cause capital to be tied up in inventories, which may result in pressure on our cash flows and liquidity. In 2010, we had accounts receivable turnover of 2.98 on an annualized basis, with days sales outstanding of 123 and inventory turnover of 4.26 on an annualized basis. In 2009, we had accounts receivable turnover of 3.6 on an annualized basis, with days sales outstanding of 146 and inventory turnover of 6.2 on an annualized basis. The low accounts receivable turnover and high days outstanding is due to the seasonality of our sales and postponement of payments from certain customers. The low inventory turnover in 2010 compared to 2009 was due to increased inventory on hand for the readiness of the high production season with an increased number of large orders in 2010. Approximately 74% of our revenue is generated in the third and fourth quarters. We acquire most of the components for the manufacture of our products from a limited number of suppliers. We acquire most of the components for the manufacture of our products from a limited number of suppliers. To manufacture our products, these components must be available when needed, at the right level of quality and at the right price. If we are unable to obtain these components accordingly, we would experience delays in manufacturing our products and our financial results could be adversely affected. Suppliers of some of these components require us to place orders with significant lead-time to assure supply in accordance with our requirements. Certain of these suppliers are currently the sole source of one or more components upon which we are dependent and alternative sources would not be available for those components unless we were to redesign our products. Other components could be obtained from alternate suppliers without redesign, but only at higher prices than we currently pay or for delivery later than required by our production schedule. We maintain a relatively small inventory of component parts for resale and our parts services business would suffer if the supply of replacement parts was reduced or terminated by our suppliers. If suppliers are not able to provide these critical components on the dates and at the prices scheduled, we may not be able to promptly and cost-effectively manufacture our products to meet customer orders, which could harm our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our products. Increased costs associated with supplied materials or components could increase our costs and reduce our profitability if we are unable to pass these cost increases on to our customers. We are a major purchaser of certain goods and raw materials that we use in the manufacturing process of our products, and price changes for the commodities we depend on may adversely affect our profitability. Our profitability generally depends upon the margin between the cost to us of certain goods used in the manufacturing process, such as plates, pumps, water tanks, sensors, controlling systems and other raw materials, as well as our fabrication costs associated with converting such goods and raw materials compared to the selling price of our products, and the overall supply of raw materials. It is our intention to base the selling prices of our products upon the associated raw materials costs to us. However, we may not be able to pass all increases in raw material costs and ancillary acquisition costs associated with taking possession of the raw materials through to our customers. Although we are currently able to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials, it is impossible to predict future availability or cost. With the rapid growth of China’s economy, the demand for certain raw materials is great while the supply may be more limited. This may affect our ability to secure the necessary raw materials in a cost-effective manner for production of our products at the volume of purchase orders that we anticipate receiving. The inability to offset price increases of raw materials by sufficient product price increases, and our inability to obtain raw materials, would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 9 We may experience material disruptions to our manufacturing operations. While we seek to operate our facilities in compliance with applicable rules and regulations and take measures to minimize the risks of disruption at our facilities, a material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and/or negatively impact our financial results. Any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including: · prolonged power failures; · equipment failures; · disruptions in the transportation infrastructure including roads, bridges, railroad tracks; · fires, floods, earthquakes or other catastrophes; and · other operational problems. We cannot be certain that our product innovations and marketing successes will continue. We believe that our past performance has been based on, and our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to continue to improve our existing products through product innovation and to develop, market and produce new products. We cannot assure you we will be successful in introducing, marketing and producing any new products or product innovations, or that we will develop and introduce in a timely manner innovations to our existing products which satisfy customer needs or achieve market acceptance. Our failure to develop new products and introduce them successfully and in a timely manner could harm our ability to grow our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our technology may not satisfy the changing needs of our customers. As with any technology, including the technology of our current and proposed products, there are risks that the technology may not successfully address all of our customers’ needs. While we have already established successful relationships with our customers, their needs may change or vary. This may affect the ability of our present or proposed products to address all of our customers’ ultimate technology needs in an economically feasible manner. Our relationship with Sondex has substantially contributed to our business and its growth. We are an authorized dealer of Sondex PHE plates in China. Sondex is one of the world’s leading PHE and PHE plate manufacturers. We sell PHEs under our Taiyu brand or on demand under the Sondex brand, while our PHE Units are sold under our Taiyu brand only. We believe our ability to provide Sondex-branded PHEs has contributed to our reputation for high quality products. Prior to our acquisition of Siping Beifang in 2009, we sourced all of our PHE plates, important raw elements used in both PHEs and PHE Units, from Sondex. However, our acquisition of Siping Beifang, along with our internal research and development efforts, enable us to produce our own plates for our heat exchangers, which has significantly reduced our reliance on Sondex-supplied plates. We cannot assure you that our products will be as well received in the marketplace as products sold under the Sondex brand, or that we will be able to produce sufficient quantities to meet demand. If our relationship with Sondex were to terminate, we would be required to manufacture plates ourselves and procure plates from other third party sources, of which we believe there are several alternate suppliers that meet our volume and quality standards. Currently, we cannot guarantee our ability to manufacture sufficient plates or that we will be able to secure a supply of plates from third party sources on acceptable terms and in a timely fashion. Accordingly, termination of our Sondex relationship may present risks to our business, revenues and operations until we secure alternate and comparable sources of supply. We may not be able to keep pace with rapid technological changes and competition in our industry. While we believe we have hired or engaged personnel and outside consultants who have the experience and ability necessary to keep pace with advances in technology, and while we continue to seek out and develop “next generation” technology through our research and development efforts, there is no guarantee we will be able to keep pace with technological developments and market demands in this evolving industry and market. In addition, our industry is highly competitive. Although we believe we have developed strategic relationships to best penetrate the China market, we face competition from other manufacturers of products similar to our products. Some of our competitors’ advantages over us in the areas of products, marketing and services include the following: · Substantially greater revenues and financial resources; · Stronger brand names and consumer recognition; · The capacity to leverage marketing expenditures across a broader portfolio of products; 10 · Pre-existing relationships with potential customers; · More resources to make acquisitions; · Lower labor and development costs; and · Broader geographic presence. We will face different market dynamics and competition if we expand our market to other countries. In some international markets, our future competitors would have greater brand recognition and broader distribution than we have. We may not be as successful as our competitors in generating revenues in international markets due to our inability to provide products that are attractive to the markets in other countries, the lack of recognition of our brand, and other factors. As a result, any international expansion efforts could be more costly and less profitable than our efforts in the domestic market in China. Our products may contain defects, which could adversely affect our reputation and cause us to incur significant costs. Despite testing, defects may be found in existing or new products. Any such defects could cause us to incur significant return and exchange costs, re-engineering costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from product development efforts and cause significant customer relations and business reputation problems. Any such defects could force us to undertake a product recall program, which could cause us to incur significant expenses and could harm our reputation and that of our products. If we deliver products with defects, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our products could be harmed. Due to the nature of our business and products, we may be liable for damages based on product liability and warranty claims. Due to the high pressures and temperatures at which many of our products are used, and the fact that some of our products are relied upon by our customers or end users in their facilities or operations, or are manufactured for relatively broad consumer use, we face an inherent risk of exposure to claims in the event that the failure, use or misuse of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury, property damage or economic loss. We believe we meet or exceed existing professional specification standards recognized or required in the industries in which we operate. We have been subject to claims in the past, none of which has had a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations, and we may be subject to claims in the future. Although we currently maintain product liability coverage, which we believe is adequate for the continued operation of our business, such insurance may become difficult to obtain or may become unobtainable in the future on terms acceptable to us and may not cover warranty claims. A successful product liability claim or series of claims against us, including one or more consumer claims purporting to constitute class actions, in excess of our insurance coverage or a significant warranty claim or series of claims against us could materially decrease our liquidity and impair our financial condition. We may experience delays in launching our products, which would negatively impact our position in the marketplace. We may experience delays in bringing new products to market, due to design, manufacturing or distribution problems. Such delays could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively and may adversely affect our relationship with our customers. Any such delays would adversely affect our revenues and our ability to become profitable. If we are not able to manage our growth, we may not remain profitable. Our success will depend on our ability to expand and manage our operations and facilities. There can be no assurance we will be able to manage our growth, meet the staffing requirements for our business or for additional collaborative relationships or successfully assimilate and train new employees. In addition, to manage our growth effectively, we may be required to expand our management base and enhance our operating and financial systems. If we continue to grow, there can be no assurance that the management skills and systems currently in place will be adequate or that we will be able to manage any additional growth effectively. Failure to achieve any of these goals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business could be subject to environmental liabilities. As is the case with manufacturers of similar products, we use certain hazardous substances in our operations. Currently, we do not anticipate any material adverse effect on our business, revenues or results of operations as a result of our compliance with Chinese environmental laws and regulations. However, the risk of environmental liability and charges associated with maintaining compliance with environmental laws is inherent in the nature of our business, and there is no assurance that material environmental liabilities and compliance charges will not arise in the future. 11 We have limited business insurance coverage and may incur losses due to business interruptions resulting from natural and man-made disasters, and our insurance may not be adequate to cover liabilities resulting from accidents or injuries that may occur. The insurance industry in China is still in an early stage of development and insurance companies located in China offer limited business insurance products. In the event of damage or loss to our properties, our insurance may not provide as much coverage as if we were insured by insurance companies in the United States. We currently carry property and casualty insurance for our buildings, plant and equipment, but cannot assure you that the coverage will be adequate to fully replace damage to any of the foregoing. Should any natural catastrophes such as earthquakes, floods or any acts of terrorism occur where our primary operations are located and most of our employees are based, or elsewhere, we might suffer not only significant property damage, but also loss of revenues due to interruptions in our business operations. The occurrence of a significant event for which we are not fully insured or indemnified, or the failure of a party to meet its underwriting or indemnification obligations, could materially and adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable. If we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified personnel, the quality of our services may decline and our business may be adversely impacted. We rely heavily on the expertise, experience and continued services of our senior management, including our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Jun Wang. Loss of his services could adversely impact our ability to achieve our business objectives. Mr. Wang is a key factor in our success at developing and introducing new products and establishing new customer relationships because of his industry experience and reputation. We believe our future success will depend upon our ability to retain Mr. Wang and other key employees and our ability to attract and retain other skilled personnel. The rapid growth of the economy in China has caused intense competition for qualified personnel. We cannot guarantee that any employee will remain employed by us for any definite period of time or that we will be able to attract, train or retain qualified personnel in the future and the loss of personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and company. Moreover, qualified employees periodically are in great demand and may be unavailable in the time frame required to satisfy our customers’ requirements. We need to employ additional personnel to expand our business. There is no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain sufficient numbers of highly skilled employees in the future. The loss of personnel or our inability to hire or retain sufficient personnel at competitive rates could impair the growth of our business. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately. Any inability to report and file our financial results accurately and timely could harm our business and adversely impact the trading price of our common stock. We are required to establish and maintain internal control over financial reporting, disclosure controls and procedures and to comply with other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the rules promulgated by the SEC. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, cannot guarantee our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all possible errors. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no system of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the possibility that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and subject to simple error or mistake. Furthermore, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be detected. Our inability or failure to report and file our financial results accurately and timely could harm our business and the trading price of our common stock. Our bank accounts are not insured or protected against loss. We maintain our cash with various banks located in China. Our cash accounts are not insured or otherwise protected. Should any bank holding our cash deposits become insolvent, or if we are otherwise unable to withdraw funds, we would lose the cash on deposit with that particular bank or trust company. We may need additional capital to execute our business plan and fund operations and may not be able to obtain such capital on acceptable terms or at all. Capital requirements are difficult to plan for in our rapidly changing industry. Although we currently expect to have sufficient funding for the next 12 months, we may need additional capital to fund our future growth. 12 Our ability to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms or at all is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: · Investors’ perceptions of, and demand for, companies in our industry; · Investors’ perceptions of, and demand for, companies operating in China; · Conditions of the U.S. and other capital markets in which we may seek to raise funds; · Our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows; · Governmental regulation of foreign investment in companies in particular countries; · Economic, political and other conditions in the United States, China, and other countries; and · Governmental policies relating to foreign currency borrowings. We may be required to pursue sources of additional capital through various means, including joint venture projects and debt or equity financings. There is no assurance we will be successful in locating a suitable financing transaction in a timely fashion or at all. In addition, there is no assurance we will be successful in obtaining the capital we require by any other means. Future financings through equity investments are likely to be dilutive to our existing shareholders. Also, the terms of securities we may issue in future capital transactions may be more favorable for our new investors. Newly issued securities may include preferences, superior voting rights, the issuance of warrants or other derivative securities, and the issuances of incentive awards under equity employee incentive plans, which may have additional dilutive effects. Furthermore, we may incur substantial costs in pursuing future capital or financing, including investment banking fees, legal fees, accounting fees, printing and distribution expenses and other costs. We may also be required to recognize non-cash expenses in connection with certain securities we may issue, such as convertible notes and warrants, which will adversely impact our financial condition. If we cannot raise additional funds on favorable terms or at all, we may not be able to carry out all or parts of our strategy to maintain our growth and competitiveness or to fund our operations. If the amount of capital we are able to raise from financing activities, together with our revenues from operations, is not sufficient to satisfy our capital needs, even to the extent that we reduce our operations accordingly, we may be required to cease operations. We may not be able to protect our technology and other proprietary rights adequately. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and protect our products, methods, processes and other technologies, to preserve our trade secrets and to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties both domestically and abroad. Despite our efforts to preserve our intellectual property rights, any of the following occurrences may reduce the value of our intellectual property: · Issued patents and trademarks may not provide us with any competitive advantages; · Our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights may not be effective in preventing misappropriation of our technology; · Our efforts may not prevent the development and design by others of products or technologies similar to or competitive with, or superior to those we develop; or · Another party may obtain a blocking patent and we would need to either obtain a license or design around the patent in order to continue to offer the contested feature or service in our products. Effective protection of our intellectual property rights may be unavailable or limited in China or certain other countries. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights adequately, it would have a negative impact on our operations. We may be subject to claims that we have infringed the proprietary rights of others, which could require us to obtain a license or change our designs. Although we do not believe any of our products infringe the proprietary rights of others, there is no assurance that infringement or invalidity claims, or claims for indemnification resulting from infringement claims, will not be asserted or prosecuted against us or that any such assertions or prosecutions will not materially adversely affect our business. Regardless of whether any such claims are valid or can be successfully asserted, defending against such claims could cause us to incur significant costs and could divert resources away from our other activities. In addition, assertion of infringement claims could result in injunctions that prevent us from distributing our products. If any claims or actions are asserted against us, we may seek to obtain a license to the intellectual property rights that are in dispute. Such a license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all, which could force us to change our designs. 13 Risks Related to Doing Business in China Inflation in China could negatively affect our profitability and growth. The rapid growth of China’s economy has been uneven among economic sectors and geographic regions of the country and has been fueled over the last three years by a large amount of debt issuances. China’s economy grew at an annual rate of 10.3% in 2010, as measured by the year-over-year change in Gross Domestic Product, or GDP, according to the National Bureau of Statistics of China, or the NBS. Rapid economic growth and less restrictive monetary policies can lead to growth in the money supply and rising inflation. According to the NBS, the annual inflation rate in China, as measured by the year-over-year change in consumer price index, was 4.6% as of December 2010, according to the NBS, and is expected to continue to increase. If prices for our products and services fail to rise at a rate sufficient to compensate for the increased costs of supplies, such as raw materials, due to inflation, it may have an adverse effect on our profitability. In order to control inflation in the past, the PRC government has imposed controls on bank credits, limits on loans for fixed assets and restrictions on state bank lending. In addition, the People’s Bank of China, which is the central bank of the PRC, has effected several increases in interest rates in response to inflationary concerns in China’s economy. The implementation of such policies may further impede future economic growth. If the People’s Bank of China continues to raise interest rates, economic activity in China could further slow and, in turn, materially increase our costs and reduce demand for our products and services. Additionally, customers generally purchase our products as part of their capital budget. Our business for our products is therefore dependent in part upon the economic health of our customers and our customers’ industries. Any change in monetary policy or economic slowdown can affect all purchasers and manufacturers of capital equipment, and we cannot assure you that our business will not be significantly impaired as a result. Limitations on the ability of our operating subsidiaries to make payments to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business and fund our operations. We are a holding company and conduct substantially all of our business through our operating subsidiaries in China. We will of necessity rely on dividends paid by our subsidiaries for our cash needs, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, to service any debt we may incur and to pay our operating expenses. The payment of dividends by entities organized in China is subject to limitations. In particular, regulations in China currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. We are also required to set aside at least 10% of our operating subsidiaries’ after-tax profit based on Chinese accounting standards each year to a statutory surplus reserve fund until the accumulative amount of such reserve reaches 50% of our registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. In addition, we may be required to allocate a portion of its after-tax profit to a staff welfare and bonus fund at our discretion. Moreover, if any of our subsidiaries incur debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict such subsidiary’s ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Any limitation on the ability of one of our subsidiaries to distribute dividends and other distributions to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends or otherwise fund and conduct our business. It will be extremely difficult to acquire jurisdiction and enforce liabilities against our officers, directors and assets based in China. Our executive officers and several of our directors, including the Chairman of our Board of Directors, are Chinese citizens. It may be difficult, if not impossible, to acquire jurisdiction over these persons in the event a lawsuit is initiated against us or our officers and directors by a shareholder or group of shareholders in the United States. Also, because our operating subsidiaries and assets are located in China, it may be extremely difficult or impossible for you to access those assets to enforce judgments rendered against us or our directors or executive offices by U.S. courts. In addition, the courts in China may not permit the enforcement of judgments arising out of U.S. federal and state corporate, securities or similar laws. Accordingly, U.S. investors may not be able to enforce judgments against us for violation of U.S. securities laws. Substantially all of our assets are located in China and all of our revenue is derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our results of operations and prospects are subject, to a significant extent, to the economic, political and legal developments in China. While China’s economy has experienced significant growth in the past 20 years, such growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The Chinese government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall economy of China, but they may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations. The economy of China has been changing from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. In recent years China has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform and the reduction of state ownership of productive assets, and the establishment of corporate governance in business enterprises. However, a substantial portion of productive assets in China are still owned by the government. In addition, the government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. It also exercises significant control over China's economic growth through the allocation of resources, the control of payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, the setting of monetary policy and the provision of preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. 14 PRC regulations relating to mergers, offshore companies and Chinese shareholders, if applied to us, may limit our ability to operate our business as we see fit. PRC regulations govern the process by which we may participate in an acquisition of assets or equity interests. Depending on the structure of the transaction, these regulations require Chinese parties to make a series of applications and supplemental applications to various government agencies. In some instances, the application process may require the presentation of economic data concerning a transaction, including appraisals of the target business and evaluations of the acquirer, which are designed to allow the government to assess the transaction. Government approvals will have expiration dates by which a transaction must be completed and reported to the government agencies. Compliance with the new regulations is likely to be more time consuming and expensive than in the past and the government can now exert more control over the combination of two businesses. Accordingly, due to PRC regulations, our ability to engage in business combination transactions in China through our Chinese subsidiaries has become significantly more complicated, time consuming and expensive, and we may not be able to negotiate transactions that are acceptable to us or sufficiently protective of our interests. Our compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act may put us at a competitive disadvantage, while our failure to comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act may result in substantial penalties. We are required to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”), which prohibits U.S. companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Although we inform our personnel that such practices are illegal, we cannot assure you that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties. Non-U.S. companies, including some of our competitors, are not subject to the provisions of the FCPA. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time to time in mainland China. If our competitors engage in these practices, they may receive preferential treatment from personnel of some companies, giving our competitors an advantage in securing business or from government officials who might give them priority in obtaining new licenses, which would put us at a disadvantage. If the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or CSRC, or another PRC regulatory agency determines that its approval is required in connection with our public offerings, we may become subject to penalties. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, including the CSRC, promulgated the Regulation on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Companies by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Regulations, which became effective on September 8, 2006. The M&A Regulations, among other things, have certain provisions that require offshore special purpose vehicles, or SPVs, formed for the purpose of acquiring PRC domestic companies and controlled by PRC individuals, to obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to listing their securities on an overseas stock exchange. We believe, based on the opinion of our PRC legal counsel, the Beijing Rondos Law Firm, that while the CSRC generally has jurisdiction over overseas listings of SPVs like us, CSRC’s approval is not required for the offerings of our securities because our current corporate structure was established before the new regulation became effective. However, there remains some uncertainty as to how this regulation will be interpreted or implemented in the context of an overseas offering. If the CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency subsequently determines that its approval is required for our public offerings, we may face sanctions by the CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency. If this happens, these regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, delay or restrict the repatriation of the proceeds from our public offerings into the PRC, restrict or prohibit payment or remittance of dividends by our PRC subsidiaries to us or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our ordinary shares. 15 We operate in the PRC through our WFOE status initially approved by the local office of the PRC Ministry of Commerce (“MOFCOM”). However, we cannot warrant that such approval procedures have been completely satisfied due to a number of reasons, including changes in laws and government interpretations. If we lose our WFOE status for any reason, our business in China may be negatively impacted. Our operating entities in the PRC have received initial MOFCOM approval as WFOEs and there may be conditions subsequent to complete and maintain such status. We believe we have satisfied all MOFCOM approval procedures for having obtained such status. However, the MOFCOM approval procedures or interpretations of its approval procedures may be different from our understanding or may change. As a result, if we lose our WFOE status for any reason, there may be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our shares. We are subject to economic and political risks in China over which we have little or no control and may be unable to alter our business practice in time to avoid the possibility of reduced revenues. Our business is conducted in China. Doing business outside the U.S., particularly in China, subjects us to various risks, including changing economic and political conditions, major work stoppages, exchange controls, currency fluctuations, armed conflicts and unexpected changes in U.S. and foreign laws relating to tariffs, trade restrictions, transportation regulations, foreign investments and taxation. We have no control over most of these risks and may be unable to anticipate changes in international economic and political conditions and, therefore, unable to alter our business practice in time to avoid the possibility of reduced revenues. We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in China. China historically has not adopted an international style of management and financial reporting concepts and practices, or modern banking, computer or other control systems. We may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to work in China. As a result of these factors, we may experience difficulty in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet international standards. Tax laws and regulations in China are subject to substantial revision, some of which may adversely affect our profitability. The Chinese corporate tax system continues to undergo substantial revision. Tax benefits we presently enjoy may not be available to us in the wake of these changes, and we could incur tax obligations to the Chinese government that are significantly higher than currently anticipated. These increased tax obligations could negatively impact our financial condition and our revenues, gross margins, profitability and results of operations may be adversely affected as a result. Certain tax exemptions that we presently enjoy in China are scheduled to expire over the next several years. As a substantial portion of our operations are located in a privileged economic zone, we are entitled to certain tax benefits. When these exemptions expire, our income tax expenses will increase, reducing our net income below what it would be if we continued to enjoy these exemptions. If relations between the U.S. and China worsen, investors may be unwilling to hold or buy our stock and our stock price may decrease. At various times during recent years, the U.S. and China have had significant disagreements over political and economic issues. Controversies may arise in the future between these two countries. Any political or trade controversies between the U.S. and China, whether or not directly related to our business, could reduce the price of our common stock. China could change its policies toward private enterprise or even nationalize or expropriate private enterprises. Our business is subject to significant political and economic uncertainties and may be affected by political, economic and social developments in China. Over the past several years, the Chinese government has pursued economic reform policies including the encouragement of private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. The Chinese government may not continue to pursue these policies or may significantly alter them to our detriment from time to time with little, if any, prior notice. Changes in policies, laws and regulations or in their interpretation or the imposition of confiscatory taxation, restrictions on currency conversion, restrictions or prohibitions on dividend payments to shareholders, or devaluations of currency could cause a decline in the price of our common stock. Nationalization or expropriation could even result in the total loss of your investment. Uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system could limit legal protections available to us. Our operating subsidiaries, which conduct most of their operations in China, are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China. The Chinese legal system is based on written statutes, and prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have no precedential value. Since 1979, legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the legal system in China continues to evolve rapidly, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. 16 Furthermore, the political, governmental and judicial systems in China are sometimes impacted by corruption. There is no assurance we will be able to obtain recourse in any legal disputes with suppliers, customers or other parties with whom we conduct business, if desired, through China's poorly developed and sometimes corrupt judicial systems. Chinese regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by Chinese residents and registration requirements for employee stock ownership plans or share option plans may subject our China resident shareholders to personal liability and limit our ability to acquire Chinese companies or to inject capital into our operating subsidiaries in China, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us, or otherwise materially and adversely affect us. SAFE issued a public notice in October 2005 (“Circular 75”) requiring PRC residents, including both legal persons and natural persons, to register with the competent local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China, referred to as an “offshore special purpose company,” for the purpose of acquiring any assets of or equity interest in PRC companies and raising funds from overseas. In addition, any PRC resident who is the shareholder of an offshore special purpose company is required to amend his or her SAFE registration with the local SAFE branch, with respect to that offshore special purpose company in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, merger, division, equity investment or creation of any security interest over any assets located in China. If any PRC resident who is the shareholder of an offshore special purpose company fails to comply with the SAFE registration requirements, the PRC subsidiaries of the offshore special purpose company may be prohibited from distributing their profits and proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to their offshore parent company and the offshore parent company may be restricted in its ability to contribute additional capital into its PRC subsidiaries. Moreover, failure to comply with the SAFE registration requirements could result in liabilities under PRC laws for evasion of foreign exchange restrictions. We cannot predict fully how Circular 75 will affect our business operations or future strategies because of our ongoing uncertainty over how Circular 75 will be interpreted and implemented, and how or whether SAFE will apply to us. Although we believes that our Chinese subsidiaries are in compliance with these regulations, should these regulations or the interpretation of them by course or regulatory agencies change, we may not be able to pay dividends outside of China. We do not believe that we have incurred a liability because of noncompliance with Circular 75 under SAFE registration procedures, however. Some of our PRC resident beneficial owners have not registered with the local SAFE branch as required under SAFE regulations in connection with their equity interests in us and our acquisitions of equity interests in our PRC subsidiaries. We cannot provide any assurances that any existing registrations of our PRC resident beneficial owners have fully complied with all applicable registrations or required approvals. We have little control over either our present or prospective direct or indirect PRC resident beneficial owners or the outcome of such registration procedures. The failure or inability of our PRC resident beneficial owners to comply with the applicable SAFE registration requirements may subject us or these beneficial owners to fines, legal sanctions and restrictions described above. On March 28, 2007, SAFE released detailed registration procedures for employee stock ownership plans or share option plans to be established by overseas listed companies and for individual plan participants. Any failure to comply with the relevant registration procedures may affect the effectiveness of our employee stock ownership plans or share option plans and subject the plan participants, the companies offering the plans or the relevant intermediaries, as the case may be, to penalties under PRC foreign exchange regime. These penalties may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, prevent us from being able to make distributions or pay dividends, as a result of which our business operations and our ability to distribute profits to you could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the NDRC promulgated a rule in October 2004 (the “NDRC Rule”), which requires NDRC approvals for overseas investment projects made by PRC entities. The NDRC Rule also provides that approval procedures for overseas investment projects of PRC individuals must be implemented with reference to this rule. However, there exist extensive uncertainties in terms of interpretation of the NDRC Rule with respect to its application to a PRC individual’s overseas investment, and in practice, we are not aware of any precedents that a PRC individual’s overseas investment has been approved by the NDRC or challenged by the NDRC based on the absence of NDRC approval. Our current beneficial owners who are PRC individuals did not apply for NDRC approval for investment in us. We cannot predict how and to what extent this will affect our business operations or future strategy. For example, the failure of our shareholders who are PRC individuals to comply with the NDRC Rule may subject these persons or our PRC subsidiaries to certain liabilities under PRC laws, which could adversely affect our business. Regulation of loans and direct investment by offshore holding companies to Chinese entities may delay or prevent us from making loans or additional capital contributions to our operating subsidiaries, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. As an offshore holding company of our Chinese operating subsidiaries, we may need to make loans to them, or we may need to make additional capital contributions to them. Any loans to our operating subsidiaries are subject to Chinese regulations. For example, loans by us to our subsidiaries in China, which are foreign-invested enterprises, to finance their activities cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with the SAFE. 17 We may also decide to finance our subsidiaries by means of capital contributions. These capital contributions must be approved by MOFCOM or its local counterpart. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future capital contributions by us to our subsidiaries. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. The Renminbi is currently convertible under the “current account,” which includes dividends, trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account,” which includes foreign direct investment and loans. Currently, our Chinese subsidiaries may purchase foreign currencies for settlement of current account transactions, including payments of dividends to us, without the approval of SAFE. However, the relevant Chinese government authorities may limit or eliminate their ability to purchase foreign currencies in the future. Since a significant amount of our future revenues will be denominated in Renminbi, any existing and future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize revenues generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside China that are denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign exchange transactions by our Chinese subsidiaries under the capital account continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of or need to register with Chinese governmental authorities, including SAFE. In particular, if our Chinese subsidiaries borrow foreign currency loans from us or other foreign lenders, these loans must be registered with SAFE, and if we finance our Chinese subsidiaries by means of additional capital contributions, these capital contributions must be approved by certain government authorities, including the NDRC and MOFCOM, or their respective local counterparts. These limitations could affect the ability of our Chinese subsidiaries to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing. We face risks associated with currency exchange rate fluctuations; any adverse fluctuation may adversely affect our operating margins. Almost all of our revenues are denominated in Renminbi. Conducting business in currencies other than U.S. dollars subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could have a negative impact on our reported operating results. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies impact our revenues, cost of revenues and operating margins and result in foreign currency translation gains and losses. If the exchange rate of the Renminbi is affected by lowering its value as against the U.S. dollar, our reported profitability when stated in U.S. dollars will decrease. Historically, we have not engaged in exchange rate hedging activities and have no current intention of doing so. Risks Related to Our Securities The market price for our common stock may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include, in addition to the risk factors incorporated by reference herein, our quarterly operating results or the operating results of other companies in our industry, announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, new products, product improvements, commercial relationships, intellectual property, legal, regulatory or other business developments and changes in financial estimates or recommendations by stock market analysts regarding us or our competitors. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for companies based in China in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated or disproportionate to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on our stock price, regardless of our operating results. Further, the market for our common stock is limited and we cannot assure you that a larger market will ever be developed or maintained. Market fluctuations and volatility, as well as general economic, market and political conditions, could reduce our market price. As a result, these factors may make it more difficult or impossible for you to sell our common stock for a positive return on your investment. Our quarterly results may be volatile. Our operating results have varied on a quarterly basis during our operating history and are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future. Many factors, including the risk factors incorporated by reference herein, could cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly in the future. Many of these factors are outside of our control. Accordingly, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful. Investors should not rely on the results of one quarter as an indication of our future performance. If our results of operations in any quarter do not meet analysts’ expectations, our stock price could materially decrease. 18 Future sales of our stock could depress the market price of our common stock. Future sales of shares of our common stock could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our stock. If our significant stockholders sell a large number of shares, or if we issue a large number of shares, the market price of our stock could significantly decline. Moreover, the perception in the public market that stockholders might sell shares of our stock could depress the market for our shares. One of our principal shareholders has the ability to exert significant control in matters requiring a shareholder vote and could delay, deter or prevent a change of control in our company. As of December 31, 2010, Jun Wang, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer and one of our largest shareholders, beneficially owned 8.83% of our outstanding shares. Mr. Wang possesses significant influence over us, giving him the ability, among other things, to effectively control the election of all or a majority of the Board of Directors and to approve significant corporate transactions. Such stock ownership and control may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a future change in control, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. Without the consent of Mr. Wang, we could be prevented from entering into potentially beneficial transactions if they conflict with his interests. The interests of Mr. Wang may differ from the interests of our other shareholders. Provisions in our Articles of Incorporation could make it very difficult for you to bring any legal actions against our directors or officers for violations of their fiduciary duties or could require us to pay any amounts incurred by our directors or officers in any such actions. Pursuant to our Articles of Incorporation, members of our Board of Directors and our officers will have no liability for violations of their fiduciary duty of care as a director or officer, except in limited circumstances. This means that you may be unable to prevail in a legal action against our directors or officers even if you believe they have breached their fiduciary duty of care. In addition, our Articles of Incorporation allows us to indemnify our directors and officers from and against any and all expenses or liabilities arising from or in connection with their serving in such capacities with us. This means that if you were able to enforce an action against our directors or officers, in all likelihood, we would be required to pay any expenses they incurred in defending the lawsuit and any judgment or settlement they otherwise would be required to pay. We may issue additional shares of our capital stock or debt securities to raise capital or complete acquisitions, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders. Our Articles of Incorporation authorize the issuance of up to 75,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $.001 per share. As of December 31, 2010, there were 35,287,453 authorized and unissued shares of our common stock available for future issuance, based on 38,551,939 shares of our common stock outstanding and our reservation of 1,160,608 shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding warrants and options, available for grants pursuant to our 2010 Equity Incentive Plan and to be issued pursuant to a one-year consulting service agreement with a consultant. Although we have no commitments as of the date of this report to issue our securities, we may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock to complete a business combination or to raise capital. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock may significantly reduce the equity interest of our existing stockholders and may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. We have not paid dividends in the past and do not expect to pay dividends in the future. Any return on investment may be limited to the value of our common stock. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends on our common stock will depend on earnings, financial condition and other business and economic factors affecting it at such time as the Board of Directors may consider relevant. Furthermore, China has currency and capital transfer regulations that require us to comply with complex regulations for the movement of capital. See “Risk Factors – Risks Related to Doing Business in China – Limitations on the ability of our operating subsidiary to make payments to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business and fund our operations.” Although our management believes that we are in compliance with these regulations, should these regulations or the interpretation of them by PRC courts or regulatory agencies change, we may not be able to pay dividends to our shareholders outside of China. Our management intends to follow a policy of retaining all of our earnings to finance the development and execution of our strategy and the expansion of our business. If we do not pay dividends, our common stock may be less valuable because a return on your investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. 19 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 