ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSRisks Related to Our Business27We may not have sufficient cash from operations to pay monthly distributions on our common units following establishment of cash reserves and payment of operating costs. We may not have sufficient cash flow from operations each month to pay distributions. Under the terms of our limited liability company agreement, the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution will be reduced by our operating expenses and the amount of any cash reserve amounts that our board of directors establishes to provide for future operations, future capital expenditures, future debt service requirements and future cash distributions to our unitholders. The amount of cash we can distribute on our common units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from month to month based on, among other things: •the amount of oil, natural gas and NGLs we produce;•the price at which we are able to sell our oil, natural gas and NGLs production;•the level of our operating costs;•the level and success of our price risk management activities;•the level of our interest expense which depends on the amount of our indebtedness and the interest payable thereon;•the level of our capital expenditures; and•voluntary or required payments on our debt agreements.In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: •the level of our capital expenditures;•our ability to make working capital borrowings under our financing arrangements to pay distributions;•the cost of acquisitions, if any;•our debt service requirements;•fluctuations in our working capital needs;•timing and collectibility of receivables;•prevailing economic conditions; and•the amount of cash reserves established by our board of directors for the proper conduct of our business.As a result of these factors, the amount of cash we distribute in any month to our unitholders may fluctuate significantly from month to month. If we do not achieve our expected operational results or cannot borrow the amounts needed, we may not be able to pay the full, or any, amount of the monthly distributions, in which event the market price of our common units may decline substantially.Growing the Company will require significant amounts of debt and equity financing, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all.We plan to fund our growth through acquisitions with proceeds from sales of our debt and equity securities and borrowings under our Reserve-Based Credit Facility; however, we cannot be certain that we will be able to issue our debt and equity securities on terms or in the proportions that we expect, or at all, and we may be unable to refinance our Reserve-Based Credit Facility upon maturity.A significant increase in our indebtedness, or an increase in our indebtedness that is proportionately greater than our issuances of equity, as well as the credit market and debt and equity capital market conditions discussed above could negatively impact our ability to remain in compliance with the financial covenants under our Reserve-Based Credit Facility which could 28have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we are unable to finance our growth as expected, we could be required to seek alternative financing, the terms of which may not be attractive to us, or not pursue growth opportunities.Our financing arrangements have substantial restrictions and financial covenants and we may have difficulty obtaining additional credit, which could adversely affect our operations. As of February 25, 2013, we had an aggregate of approximately $999.0 million outstanding under our Reserve-Based Credit Facility and the Senior Notes with additional borrowing capacity of approximately $749.3 million under our Reserve-Based Credit Facility. As a result of our indebtedness, we will use a portion of our cash flow to pay interest and principal when due, which will reduce the cash available to finance our operations and other business activities and could limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and the industry in which we operate.Our Reserve-Based Credit Facility and the Senior Notes contain certain covenants limiting our ability to make distributions, incur indebtedness, grant liens, make acquisitions, investments or dispositions and engage in transactions with affiliates, as well as containing covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios and tests.Our borrowing base is the amount of money available for borrowing, as determined semi-annually by our lenders in their sole discretion. The lenders will re-determine the borrowing base based on an engineering report with respect to our oil, natural gas and NGLs reserves, which will take into account the prevailing oil, natural gas and NGLs prices at such time. In the future, we may not be able to access adequate funding under our Reserve-Based Credit Facility as a result of (i) a decrease in our borrowing base due to the outcome of a subsequent borrowing base redetermination, or (ii) an unwillingness or inability on the part of our lending counterparties to meet their funding obligations.A future decline in commodity prices could result in a redetermination lowering our borrowing base in the future and, in such case, we could be required to repay any indebtedness in excess of the borrowing base. The lenders can unilaterally adjust the borrowing base and the borrowings permitted to be outstanding under our Reserve-Based Credit Facility. Any increase in the borrowing base requires the consent of all the lenders. Outstanding borrowings in excess of the borrowing base must be repaid immediately, or we must pledge other oil and natural gas properties as additional collateral. We do not currently have any substantial unpledged properties, and we may not have the financial resources in the future to make any mandatory principal prepayments required under our Reserve-Based Credit Facility.Substantial acquisitions or other transactions could require significant external capital and could change our risk and property profile. A principal component of our business strategy is to grow our asset base and production through the acquisition of oil and natural gas properties characterized by long-lived, stable production. The character of newly acquired properties may be substantially different in operating or geological characteristics or geographic location than our existing properties. The changes in the characteristics and risk profiles of such new properties will in turn affect our risk profile, which may negatively affect our ability to issue equity or debt securities in order to fund future acquisitions and may inhibit our ability to renegotiate our existing credit facilities on favorable terms.Our future distributions and proved reserves will be dependent upon the success of our efforts to prudently acquire, manage and develop oil and natural gas properties that conform to the acquisition profile described in this Annual Report. In addition to ownership of the properties currently owned by us, unless we acquire properties in the future containing additional proved reserves or successfully develop proved reserves on our existing properties, our proved reserves will decline as the reserves attributable to the underlying properties are produced. In addition, if the costs to develop or operate our properties increase, the estimated proved reserves associated with properties will be reduced below the level that would otherwise be estimated. We will manage and develop our properties, and the ultimate value to us of such properties which we acquire will be dependent upon the price we pay and our ability to prudently acquire, manage and develop such properties. As a result, our future cash distributions will be dependent to a substantial extent upon our ability to prudently acquire, manage and develop such properties. Suitable acquisition candidates may not be available on terms and conditions that we find acceptable, we may not be able to obtain financing for certain acquisitions, and acquisitions pose substantial risks to our businesses, financial conditions and results of operations. Even if future acquisitions are completed, the following are some of the risks associated with acquisitions, which could reduce the amount of cash available from the affected properties:29•some of the acquired properties may not produce revenues, reserves, earnings or cash flow at anticipated levels;•we may assume liabilities that were not disclosed or that exceed their estimates;•we may be unable to integrate acquired properties successfully and may not realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits in a timely manner, which could result in substantial costs and delays or other operational, technical or financial problems;•acquisitions could disrupt our ongoing business, distract management, divert resources and make it difficult to maintain our current business standards, controls and procedures; and•we may incur additional debt related to future acquisitions.Oil, natural gas and NGLs prices are volatile. A decline in oil, natural gas and NGLs prices could adversely affect our financial position, financial results, cash flow, access to capital and ability to grow and pay distributions.Our future financial condition, revenues, results of operations, rate of growth and the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties depend primarily upon the prices we receive for our oil, natural gas and NGLs production and the prices prevailing from time to time for oil, natural gas and NGLs. Prices also affect our cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to access funds under our Reserve-Based Credit Facility and through the capital markets. The amount available for borrowing under our Reserve-Based Credit Facility is subject to a borrowing base, which is determined by our lenders taking into account our estimated proved reserves and is subject to semi-annual redeterminations based on pricing models determined by the lenders at such time. The recent volatility in oil, natural gas and NGLs prices has impacted the value of our estimated proved reserves and, in turn, the market values used by our lenders to determine our borrowing base. Further, because we have elected to use the full-cost accounting method, each quarter we must perform a “ceiling test” that is impacted by declining prices. Additionally, we have recorded goodwill which represents the excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair value of the net assets acquired in the ENP Acquisition. Significant price declines could cause us to take one or more ceiling test write downs or cause us to record an impairment of goodwill, which would be reflected as non-cash charges against current earnings.Oil, natural gas and NGLs prices historically have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future, especially given current geopolitical and economic conditions. For example, the crude oil spot price per barrel for the period between January 1, 2012 and December 31, 2012 ranged from a high of $109.39 to a low of $77.72 and the NYMEX natural gas spot price per MMBtu for the period January 1, 2012 and December 31, 2012 ranged from a high of $3.90 to a low of $1.91. As of February 25, 2013, the crude oil spot price per barrel was $92.74 and the NYMEX natural gas spot price per MMBtu was $3.41. This price volatility affects the amount of our cash flow we have available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital. The prices for oil, natural gas and NGLs are subject to a variety of factors, including:•the level of consumer demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs;•the domestic and foreign supply of oil, natural gas and NGLs;•commodity processing, gathering and transportation availability, and the availability of refining capacity;•the price and level of imports of foreign crude oil, natural gas and NGLs;•the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and to enforce crude oil price and production controls;•domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes;•the price and availability of alternative fuel sources;•weather conditions;•political conditions or hostilities in oil and gas producing regions, including the Middle East, Africa and South America;•technological advances affecting energy consumption; and30•worldwide economic conditions.Declines in oil, natural gas and NGLs prices would not only reduce our revenue, but could reduce the amount of oil, natural gas and NGLs that we can produce economically and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and reserves. If the gas and oil industry experiences significant price declines, we may, among other things, be unable to maintain or increase our borrowing capacity, repay current or future indebtedness or obtain additional capital on attractive terms or make distributions to our unitholders, all of which can affect the value of our units. A widening of commodity differentials and our inability to enter into hedge contracts for a sufficient amount of our production at favorable pricing could materially adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows from operations.Our crude oil, natural gas and NGLs are priced in the local markets where the production occurs based on local or regional supply and demand factors. The prices that we receive for our crude oil, natural gas and NGLs production are generally lower than the relevant benchmark prices, such as NYMEX, that are used for calculating commodity derivative positions. The difference between the benchmark price and the price we receive is called a differential. We may not be able to accurately predict natural gas and crude oil differentials.Price differentials may widen in the future. Numerous factors may influence local pricing, such as refinery capacity, pipeline capacity and specifications, upsets in the mid-stream or downstream sectors of the industry, trade restrictions and governmental regulations. We may be adversely impacted by a widening differential on the products we sell. Our oil and natural gas hedges are based on WTI or natural gas index prices, so we may be subject to basis risk if the differential on the products we sell widens from those benchmarks and we do not have a contract tied to those benchmarks. Currently, we are unable to hedge widening oil differentials in certain operating areas. In addition, since NGLs cannot be hedged effectively due to cost and liquidity constraints, we bear the cash flow risk and reward related to NGLs price fluctuations. Increases in the differential between the benchmark price for oil and natural gas and the wellhead price we receive and our inability to enter into hedge contracts at favorable pricing and for a sufficient amount of our production could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows from operations in the future.Unless we replace our reserves, our existing reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our cash flow from operations and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Producing oil and natural gas wells extract hydrocarbons from underground structures referred to as reservoirs. Reservoirs contain a finite volume of hydrocarbon reserves referred to as reserves in place. Based on prevailing prices and production technologies, only a fraction of reserves in place can be recovered from a given reservoir. The volume of the reserves in place that is recoverable from a particular reservoir is reduced as production from that well continues. The reduction is referred to as depletion. Ultimately, the economically recoverable reserves from a particular well will deplete entirely, and the producing well will cease to produce and will be plugged and abandoned. In that event, we must replace our reserves. Unless we are able over the long-term to replace the reserves that are produced, investors in our units should consider the cash distributions that are paid on the units not merely as a “distribution yield” on the units, but as a combination of both a return of capital and a return on investment. Investors in our units will have to obtain the return of capital invested out of cash flow derived from their investments in units during the period when reserves can be economically recovered. Accordingly, we give no assurances that the distributions our unitholders receive over the life of their investment will meet or exceed their initial capital investment. Lower oil, natural gas and NGLs prices and other factors have resulted, and in the future may result, in ceiling test or goodwill write downs and other impairments of our asset carrying values.We use the full cost method of accounting to report our oil and natural gas properties. Under this method, we capitalize the cost to acquire, explore for, and develop oil and natural gas properties. Under full cost accounting rules, the net capitalized costs of proved oil and natural gas properties may not exceed a “ceiling limit,” which is based upon the present value of estimated future net cash flows from proved reserves, discounted at 10%. If net capitalized costs of proved oil and natural gas properties exceed the ceiling limit, we must charge the amount of the excess to earnings. This is called a “ceiling test write down.” Under the accounting rules, we are required to perform a ceiling test each quarter. A ceiling test write down would not impact cash flow from operating activities, but it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period incurred and would reduce our members’ equity.In the current natural gas price environment, where the historical 12-month average price is significantly less than the expected natural gas prices in future years, it is highly likely that an impairment would be recorded in the quarter in which we 31complete a natural gas asset acquisition. In accordance with the guidance contained within ASC Topic 805, "Business Combinations," ("ASC Topic 805"), upon the acquisition of oil and natural gas properties, the company records an asset based on the measurement of the fair value of the properties acquired determined using forward oil and natural gas price curves at the acquisitions dates, which can have several price increases over the entire reserve life. As discussed above, capitalized oil and natural gas property costs are limited to a ceiling based on the present value of future net revenues, computed using a flat price for the entire reserve life equal to the historical 12-month average price, discounted at 10%, plus the lower of cost or fair market value of unproved properties. If the ceiling is less than the total capitalized costs, we are required to write-down capitalized costs to the ceiling. As a result, there is a risk that we will be required to record additional impairment of our oil and natural gas properties if certain attributes, such as declining oil and natural gas prices, continue. We recorded a non-cash ceiling test impairment of oil and natural gas properties for the year ended December 31, 2012 of $247.7 million as a result of a decline in natural gas prices at the measurement dates, September 30, 2012 and December 31, 2012. Such impairment was recognized during the third and fourth quarters of 2012. The most significant factor affecting the 2012 impairment related to the properties that we acquired in the Arkoma Basin Acquisition and Rockies Acquisition (discussed below). The fair values of the properties acquired (determined using forward oil and natural gas price curves at the acquisitions dates) were higher than the discounted estimated future cash flows computed using the 12-month average prices at the impairment test measurement dates. We were able to lock in the higher prices at the time of the acquisitions for 100% of the estimated natural gas production through June 2017 for the Arkoma Basin Acquisition and 85% of the estimated natural gas production through December 2016 for the Rockies Acquisition by using commodity derivative contracts. However, the impairment calculations did not consider the positive impact of our commodity derivative positions as generally accepted accounting principles only allow the inclusion of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges. The third quarter impairment was calculated based on prices of $2.77 per MMBtu for natural gas and $95.26 per barrel of crude oil while the fourth quarter impairment was calculated based on prices of $2.76 per MMBtu for natural gas and $94.67 per barrel of crude oil. Based on the 11-month average oil, natural gas and NGLs prices through February 1, 2013 and if such prices do not change during March 2013, we estimate that, on a pro forma basis, we will record an additional ceiling test write down on our existing assets of approximately $75.6 million at March 31, 2013. However, whether we will actually record an impairment during the quarter ended March 31, 2013 and whether the amount of any such impairment will be similar in amount to such estimate, is contingent upon many factors such as the price of oil, natural gas and NGLs for the remainder of the first quarter of 2013, increases or decreases in our reserve base, changes in estimated costs and expenses, and oil and natural gas property acquisitions, which could increase, decrease or eliminate the need for such an impairment. In the current natural gas price environment, where the historical 12-month average price is significantly less than the expected natural gas prices in future years, it is highly likely that an impairment would be recorded in the quarter in which we complete a natural gas asset acquisition. In accordance with the guidance contained within ASC Topic 805, upon the acquisition of an oil and natural gas properties, the company records an asset based on the measurement of the fair value of the properties acquired determined using forward oil and natural gas price curves at the acquisitions dates, which can have several price increases over the entire reserve life. As discussed above, capitalized oil and natural gas property costs are limited to a ceiling based on the present value of future net revenues, computed using a flat price for the entire reserve life equal to the historical 12-month average price, discounted at 10%, plus the lower of cost or fair market value of unproved properties. If the ceiling is less than the total capitalized costs, we are required to write-down capitalized costs to the ceiling. As a result, there is a risk that we will be required to record additional impairment of our oil and natural gas properties if certain attributes, such as declining oil and natural gas prices, continue. An impairment is anticipated in the quarter in which we close the recently announced acquisition of oil and natural gas properties in the Permian Basin in West Texas and New Mexico, which is scheduled to close on April 1, 2013. Additionally, we have recorded goodwill which represents the excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair value of the net assets acquired in the ENP Purchase. Significant price declines could cause us to record an impairment of goodwill, which would be reflected as non-cash charge against current earnings.Our acquisition activities will subject us to certain risks. We have expanded our operations through acquisitions. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: the validity of our assumptions about reserves, future production, revenues and costs, including synergies; an inability to integrate successfully the businesses we acquire; a decrease in our liquidity by using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions; a significant increase in our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance acquisitions; the assumption of unknown liabilities including, for example, historical spills or releases, losses or costs for which we are not indemnified or for which our indemnity is inadequate; the diversion of management’s attention to other business concerns; an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate our growing business and assets; the incurrence of other significant charges, such as impairment of recorded goodwill 32or other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges; unforeseen difficulties encountered in operating in new geographic areas; an increase in our costs or a decrease in our revenues associated with any potential royalty owner or landowner claims or disputes; and customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses. Our decision to acquire a property will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained from production reports and engineering studies, geophysical and geological analyses and seismic and other information, the results of which are often inconclusive and subject to various interpretations. Also, our reviews of acquired properties are inherently incomplete because it generally is not feasible to perform an in-depth review of the individual properties involved in each acquisition. Even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and potential. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as ground water contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. If our acquisitions do not generate increases in available cash per unit, our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders could materially decrease.The amount of cash that we have available for distribution to our unitholders depends primarily upon our cash flow and not our profitability. The amount of cash that we have available for distribution depends primarily on our cash flow, including cash from reserves and working capital or other borrowings, and not solely on our GAAP net income, which is affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may be unable to pay distributions even when we record net income, and we may be able to pay distributions during periods when we incur net losses. Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. No one can measure underground accumulations of oil or natural gas in an exact way. Oil and natural gas reserve engineering requires subjective estimates of underground accumulations of oil and/or natural gas and assumptions concerning future oil and natural gas prices, production levels, and operating and development costs. As a result, estimated quantities of proved reserves and projections of future production rates and the timing of development expenditures may prove to be inaccurate. Independent petroleum engineers prepare estimates of our proved reserves. Some of our reserve estimates are made without the benefit of a lengthy production history, which are less reliable than estimates based on a lengthy production history. Also, the calculation of estimated reserves requires certain assumptions regarding future oil and natural gas prices, production levels, and operating and development costs, any of which assumptions may prove incorrect. Any significant variance from these assumptions by actual figures could greatly affect our estimates of reserves, the economically recoverable quantities of oil, natural gas and NGLs attributable to any particular group of properties, the classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery, and estimates of the future net cash flows. For example, if natural gas prices decline by $1.00 per MMBtu and oil prices declined by $6.00 per barrel, the standardized measure of our proved reserves as of December 31, 2012 would decrease from $1.6 billion to $1.2 billion, based on price sensitivity generated from an internal evaluation. Our standardized measure is calculated using unhedged oil and natural gas prices and is determined in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC. Numerous changes over time to the assumptions on which our reserve estimates are based, as described above, often result in the actual quantities of oil, natural gas and NGLs we ultimately recover being different from our reserve estimates.The present value of future net cash flows from our proved reserves that we disclose in our annual financial statements is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated proved reserves. We base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves using a 12-month average price and costs in effect on the day of the estimate. However, actual future net cash flows from our oil and natural gas properties will be affected by factors such as: •the volume, pricing and duration of our oil and natural gas hedging contracts;•supply of and demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs;•actual prices we receive for oil, natural gas and NGLs;•our actual operating costs in producing oil, natural gas and NGLs;33•the amount and timing of our capital expenditures;•the amount and timing of actual production; and•changes in governmental regulations or taxation.The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and natural gas industry in general. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to unitholders. Our operations require substantial capital expenditures, which will reduce our cash available for distribution. We may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in our reserves and adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We have made and ultimately expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures in our business for the development, production and acquisition of oil, natural gas and NGLs reserves. These expenditures will reduce our cash available for distribution. We intend to finance our future capital expenditures with cash flow from operations and our financing arrangements. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including: •our proved reserves;•the level of oil, natural gas and NGLs we are able to produce from existing wells;•the prices at which our oil, natural gas and NGLs are sold; and•our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves.If our revenues or the borrowing base under our Reserve-Based Credit Facility decrease as a result of lower oil, natural gas and NGLs prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels or to replace or add to our reserves. Our Reserve-Based Credit Facility restricts our ability to obtain new debt financing. If additional capital is needed, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. If cash generated by operations or available under our Reserve-Based Credit Facility is not sufficient to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to development of our prospects, which in turn could lead to a possible decline in our reserves and production and a reduction in our cash available for distribution. Our business depends on gathering and compression facilities owned by third parties and transportation facilities owned by third-party transporters and we rely on third parties to gather and deliver our oil, natural gas and NGLs to certain designated interconnects with third-party transporters. Any limitation in the availability of those facilities or delay in providing interconnections to newly drilled wells would interfere with our ability to market the oil, natural gas and NGLs we produce and could reduce our revenues and cash available for distribution.The marketability of our oil, natural gas and NGLs production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipeline systems owned by third parties in the respective operating areas. The amount of oil and natural gas that can be produced and sold is subject to curtailment in certain circumstances, such as pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, excessive pressure, physical damage to the gathering, compression or transportation system, or lack of contracted capacity on such systems. The curtailments arising from these and similar circumstances may last from a few days to several months. In many cases, we are provided only with limited, if any, notice as to when these circumstances will arise and their duration. In addition, some of our wells are drilled in locations that are not serviced by gathering and transportation pipelines, or the gathering and transportation pipelines in the area may not have sufficient capacity to transport the additional production. As a result, we may not be able to sell the oil and natural gas production from these wells until the necessary gathering and transportation systems are constructed. Any significant curtailment in gathering system or pipeline capacity, or significant delay in the construction of necessary gathering, compression and transportation facilities, could reduce our revenues and cash available for distribution.34Our sales of oil, natural gas and NGLs and other energy commodities, and related hedging activities, expose us to potential regulatory risks.The Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”), Federal Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) and the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) hold statutory authority to monitor certain segments of the physical and futures energy commodities markets. These agencies have imposed broad regulations prohibiting fraud and manipulation of such markets. With regard to our physical sales of oil, natural gas and NGLs or other energy commodities, and any related hedging activities that we undertake, we are required to observe the market-related regulations enforced by these agencies, which hold substantial enforcement authority. Our sales may also be subject to certain reporting and other requirements. Failure to comply with such regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.We are subject to FERC requirements related to our use of capacity on natural gas pipelines that are subject to FERC regulation. Any failure on our part to comply with the FERC’s regulations and policies, or with an interstate pipeline’s tariff, could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties.Climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives restricting emissions of GHGs may adversely affect our operations, our cost structure, or the demand for oil and natural gas.In response to findings made by the EPA in December 2009 that emissions of GHGs present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gasses are contributing to the warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes, the EPA, has adopted regulations under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act establishing Title V and PSD permitting requirements for certain large stationary sources that are potential major sources of GHG emissions. Facilities required to obtain PSD permits for their GHG emissions also will be required to meet “best available control technology” standards, which will be established by the states or, in some instances, by the EPA on a case-by-case basis. These EPA rulemakings could adversely affect our operations and restrict or delay our ability to obtain air permits for new or modified facilities, should those facilities exceed threshold permitting levels of GHG emissions. In addition, the EPA has adopted rules requiring the monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions from certain sources including, among others, onshore and offshore oil and natural gas production facilities on an annual basis, which include certain of our operations. While Congress has from time to time actively considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, there has not been significant activity in the form of adopted legislation to reduce GHG emissions at the federal level in recent years. In the absence of such federal climate legislation, a number of state and regional efforts have emerged that are aimed at tracking and/or reducing GHG emissions by means of cap and trade programs that typically require major sources of GHG emissions, such as electric power plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances in return for emitting those GHGs. If Congress undertakes comprehensive tax reform in the coming year, it is possible that such reform may include a carbon tax, which could impose additional direct costs on operations and reduce demand for refined products. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address GHG emissions would impact the Company's business, any such future laws and regulations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of GHGs associated with our operations or could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods and other climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our provision of services. 35The enactment of derivatives legislation could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business.On July 21, 2010 new comprehensive financial reform legislation, known as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Act”), was enacted that establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as us, that participate in that market. The Act requires the CFTC, the SEC and other regulators to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation. In its rulemaking under the Act, the CFTC has issued final regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. Certain bona fide hedging transactions would be exempt from these position limits. The position limits rule was vacated by the United States District Court for the District of Columbia in September of 2012 although the CFTC has stated that it will appeal the District Court's decision. The CFTC also has finalized other regulations, including critical rulemakings on the definition of “swap,” “security-based swap,” “swap dealer” and “major swap participant”. The Act and CFTC Rules also will require us in connection with certain derivatives activities to comply with clearing and trade-execution requirements (or take steps to qualify for an exemption to such requirements). In addition new regulations may require us to comply with margin requirements although these regulations are not finalized and their application to us is uncertain at this time. Other regulations also remain to be finalized, and the CFTC recently has delayed the compliance dates for various regulations already finalized. As a result it is not possible at this time to predict with certainty the full effects of the Act and CFTC rules on us and the timing of such effects. The Act also may require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. The Act and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including from swap recordkeeping and reporting requirements and through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Act and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures or to make distributions. Finally, the Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the Act and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have material, adverse effect on us, our financial condition, and our results of operations.We depend on certain key customers for sales of our oil, natural gas and NGLs. To the extent these and other customers reduce the volumes of oil, natural gas and NGLs they purchase from us, or to the extent these customers cease to be creditworthy, our revenues and cash available for distribution could decline. For the year ended December 31, 2012, sales of oil, natural gas and NGLs to Marathon Oil Company, Plains Marketing, LP, Cardinal Midstream LLC, Flint Hills Resources, LP and Shell Trading (US) Company accounted for approximately 21%, 15%, 5%, 5%, and 4%, respectively, of our oil, natural gas and NGLs revenues. Our top five purchasers during the year ended December 31, 2012 therefore accounted for 50% of our total revenues. To the extent these and other customers reduce the volumes of oil, natural gas and NGLs that they purchase from us and they are not replaced in a timely manner with a new customer, our revenues and cash available for distribution could decline. We are subject to compliance with environmental and occupational safety and health laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. The operations of our wells are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment, environmental protection, and the health and safety of employees. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations on our operations including the acquisition of permits, including drilling permits, to conduct regulated activities; the incurrence of capital expenditures to mitigate or prevent releases of materials from our facilities; restriction of types, quantities and concentration of materials that can be released into the environment; limitation or prohibition of construction and operating activities in environmental sensitive areas such as wetlands, wilderness regions and other protected areas; the imposition of substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations; and the application of specific health and safety criteria addressing worker protection. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the EPA and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, often requiring difficult and costly actions. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements, and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. Certain environmental statutes impose joint and several strict liability for costs required to clean up 36and restore sites where hazardous substances or wastes have been disposed of or otherwise released. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property or natural resource damage allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances or other waste products into the environment. We may incur significant environmental costs and liabilities due to the nature of our business and the petroleum hydrocarbons, hazardous substances and wastes resulting from or associated with operation of our wells. For example, an accidental release of petroleum hydrocarbons from one of our wells could subject us to substantial liabilities arising from environmental cleanup and restoration costs, claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury, property and natural resource damage, and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. Moreover, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. We may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance. Please read “Item 1. Business—Operations—Environmental and Occupational Health Safety Matters.”Federal, state and local legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing, as well as governmental reviews of such activities, could result in increased costs, operating restrictions or delays, and adversely affect our production.Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of natural gas and/or oil from dense subsurface rock formations. The hydraulic fracturing process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into targeted subsurface formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. We commonly use hydraulic fracturing as part of our operations. Hydraulic fracturing typically is regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions, but the EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority pursuant to the Safe Drinking Water Act over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel fuels and published draft permitting guidance in May 2012 addressing the performance of such activities using diesel fuels. In November 2011, the EPA announced its intent to develop and issue regulations under the Toxic Substances Control Act to require companies to disclose information regarding the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing and the agency currently plans to issue a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking that would seek public input on the design and scope of such disclosure regulations. In addition, Congress from time to time has considered adopting legislation to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. Some states, including Texas and Wyoming, have adopted, and other states are considering adopting legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting public disclosure, or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. If new or more stringent federal, state or local legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where we operate, we could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from drilling wells. In addition, certain governmental reviews have been conducted or are underway that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. The White House Council on Environmental Quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices. The EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater, with a first progress report outlining work currently underway by the agency released on December 21, 2012 and a final report drawing conclusions about the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources expected to be available for public comment and peer review by 2014. Moreover, the EPA is developing effluent limitations for the treatment and discharge of wastewater resulting from hydraulic fracturing activities and plans to propose these standards by 2014. Other governmental agencies, including the U.S. Department of Energy and the U.S. Department of the Interior, have evaluated or are evaluating various other aspects of hydraulic fracturing. These ongoing or proposed studies, depending on their degree of pursuit and any meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the federal Safe Drinking Water Act or other regulatory mechanisms. Locations that we or the operators of our properties decide to drill may not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities.The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a well. Our efforts will be uneconomical if we or the operators of our properties drill dry holes or wells that are productive but do not produce enough to be commercially viable after drilling, operating and other costs. If we or the operators of our properties drill future wells that we identify as dry holes, our drilling success rate would decline and may adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to pay future cash distributions at expected levels. 37Many of our leases are in areas that have been partially depleted or drained by offset wells.Many of our leases are in areas that have already been partially depleted or drained by earlier offset drilling. This may inhibit our ability to find economically recoverable quantities of oil or natural gas in these areas. Our identified drilling location inventories are scheduled out over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling, resulting in temporarily lower cash from operations, which may impact our ability to pay distributions. Our prospective drilling locations are in various stages of evaluation, ranging from a prospect that is ready to drill to a prospect that will require additional geological and engineering analysis. Based on a variety of factors, including future oil, natural gas and NGL prices, the generation of additional seismic or geological information, the availability of drilling rigs and other factors, we may decide not to drill one or more of these prospects.Our management has specifically identified and scheduled drilling locations as an estimation of our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage. As of December 31, 2012, we have identified 766 proved undeveloped drilling locations and over 1,418 additional drilling locations. These identified drilling locations represent a significant part of our strategy. The SEC's reserve reporting rules include a general requirement that, subject to limited exceptions, proved undeveloped reserves may only be booked if they relate to wells scheduled to be drilled within five years of the date of booking. To the extent that we do not drill these locations within five years of initial booking, they may not continue to qualify for classification as proved reserves, and we may be required to reclassify such reserves as unproved reserves. The reclassification of such reserves could also have a negative effect on the borrowing base under our Reserve-Based Credit Facility. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating costs and drilling results. In addition, D&M and NSAI have not assigned any proved reserves to the over 1,418 unproved drilling locations we have identified and scheduled for drilling and therefore there may exist greater uncertainty with respect to the success of drilling wells at these drilling locations. Our final determination on whether to drill any of these drilling locations will be dependent upon the factors described above as well as, to some degree, the results of our drilling activities with respect to our proved drilling locations. Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if the numerous drilling locations we have identified will be drilled within our expected timeframe or will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce oil or natural gas from these or any other potential drilling locations. As such, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified, which could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and our ability to pay distributions..Drilling for and producing oil, natural gas and NGLs are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations and, as a result, our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. Our drilling activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that we will not discover commercially productive reservoirs. Drilling for oil or natural gas can be uneconomical, not only from dry holes, but also from productive wells that do not produce sufficient revenues to be commercially viable. In addition, our drilling and producing operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of other factors, including: •the high cost, shortages or delivery delays of equipment and services;•shortages of or delays in obtaining water for hydraulic fracturing operations;•unexpected operational events;•adverse weather conditions;•facility or equipment malfunctions;•title problems;•pipeline or vessel ruptures or spills;•compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements;38•unusual or unexpected geological formations;•loss of drilling fluid circulation;•formations with abnormal pressures;•environmental hazards, such as oil, natural gas or well fluids spills or releases and discharges of toxic gas;•fires;•blowouts, craterings and explosions;•uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids; and•pipeline capacity curtailments.Any of these events can cause substantial losses, including personal injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution, environmental contamination, loss of wells and regulatory penalties. We ordinarily maintain insurance against various losses and liabilities arising from our operations; however, insurance against all operational risks is not available to us. Additionally, we may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the perceived risks presented. Losses could therefore occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse impact on our business activities, financial condition and results of operations.We may incur substantial additional debt in the future to enable us to pursue our business plan and to pay distributions to our unitholders. Our business requires a significant amount of capital expenditures to maintain and grow production levels. Commodity prices have historically been volatile, and we cannot predict the prices we will be able to realize for our production in the future. As a result, we may borrow, to the extent available, significant amounts under our Reserve-Based Credit Facility in the future to enable us to pay monthly distributions. Significant declines in our production or significant declines in realized oil, natural gas and NGLs prices for prolonged periods and resulting decreases in our borrowing base may force us to reduce or suspend distributions to our unitholders. If we borrow to pay distributions, we are distributing more cash than we are generating from our operations on a current basis. This means that we are using a portion of our borrowing capacity under our Reserve-Based Credit Facility to pay distributions rather than to maintain or expand our operations. If we use borrowings under our Reserve-Based Credit Facility to pay distributions for an extended period of time rather than toward funding capital expenditures and other matters relating to our operations, we may be unable to support or grow our business. Such a curtailment of our business activities, combined with our payment of principal and interest on our future indebtedness to pay these distributions, will reduce our cash available for distribution on our common units. If we borrow to pay distributions during periods of low commodity prices and commodity prices remain low, we may have to reduce or suspend our distribution in order to avoid excessive leverage and debt covenant violations. Seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations adversely affect our ability to conduct drilling activities in some of the areas where we operate. Seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations can limit our drilling and producing activities and other operations in some of our operating areas and as a result, we generally perform the majority of our drilling in these areas during the summer and fall months. These seasonal anomalies can pose challenges for meeting our well drilling objectives and increase competition for equipment, supplies and personnel during the spring and summer months, which could lead to shortages and increase costs or delay our operations. Additionally, many municipalities impose weight restrictions on the paved roads that lead to our jobsites due to the muddy conditions caused by spring thaws. This limits our access to these jobsites and our ability to service wells in these areas. Generally, but not always, oil is typically in higher demand in the summer for its use in road construction and natural gas is in higher demand in the winter for heating. Seasonal anomalies such as mild winters or hot summers sometimes lessen this fluctuation. In addition, certain natural gas consumers utilize natural gas storage facilities and purchase some of their anticipated winter requirements during the summer. This can also lessen seasonal demand fluctuations. 39Our price risk management activities could result in financial losses or could reduce our cash flow, which may adversely affect our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. We enter into derivative contracts to reduce the impact of oil and natural gas price volatility on our cash flow from operations. Currently, we use a combination of fixed-price swaps, basis swaps, swaptions, put spread options, collars, three-way collars and range bonus accumulators to mitigate the volatility of future oil and natural gas prices received. Please read “Item 1. Business— Operations— Price Risk and Interest Rate Management Activities” and “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Our actual future production may be significantly higher or lower than we estimate at the time we enter into derivative contracts for such period. If the actual amount of production is higher than we estimate, we will have greater commodity price exposure than we intended. If the actual amount of production is lower than the notional amount that is subject to our derivative financial instruments, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our derivative transactions without the benefit of the cash flow from our sale of the underlying physical commodity, resulting in a substantial diminution of our liquidity. As a result of these factors, our hedging activities may not be as effective as we intend in reducing the volatility of our cash flows, and in certain circumstances may actually increase the volatility of our cash flows. In addition, our price risk management activities are subject to the following risks: •a counterparty may not perform its obligation under the applicable derivative instrument;•there may be a change in the expected differential between the underlying commodity price in the derivative instrument and the actual price received; and•the steps we take to monitor our derivative financial instruments may not detect and prevent violations of our risk management policies and procedures. We are exposed to trade credit risk in the ordinary course of our business activities.We are exposed to risks of loss in the event of nonperformance by our vendors, customers and by counterparties to our price risk management arrangements. Some of our vendors, customers and counterparties may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. Many of our vendors, customers and counterparties finance their activities through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. The combination of reduction of cash flow resulting from declines in commodity prices and the lack of availability of debt or equity financing may result in a significant reduction in our vendors’, customers’ and counterparties' liquidity and ability to make payments or perform on their obligations to us. Even if our credit review and analysis mechanisms work properly, we may experience financial losses in our dealings with other parties. Any increase in the nonpayment or nonperformance by our vendors, customers and/or counterparties could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.We depend on senior management personnel, each of whom would be difficult to replace.We depend on the performance of Scott W. Smith, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Richard A. Robert, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Britt Pence, our Senior Vice President of Operations. We maintain no key person insurance for either Mr. Smith, Mr. Robert or Mr. Pence. The loss of any or all of Messrs. Smith, Robert and Pence could negatively impact our ability to execute our strategy and our results of operations. We may be unable to compete effectively with larger companies, which may adversely affect our ability to generate sufficient revenue to allow us to pay distributions to our unitholders. The oil and natural gas industry is intensely competitive, and we compete with other companies that have greater resources. Our ability to acquire additional properties and to discover reserves in the future will be dependent upon our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Many of our larger competitors not only drill for and produce oil, natural gas and NGLs, but also carry on refining operations and market petroleum and other products on a regional, national or worldwide basis. These companies may be able to pay more for oil and natural gas properties and evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties than our financial or human resources permit. In addition, these companies may have a greater ability to continue drilling activities during periods of low oil, natural gas and NGLs prices and to absorb the burden of present and future federal, state, local and other laws and regulations. Our inability to compete effectively with larger companies could have a material adverse impact on our business activities, financial condition and results of operations. 40We are subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Our operations are regulated extensively at the federal, state and local levels. Environmental and other governmental laws and regulations have increased the costs to plan, design, drill, install, operate and abandon oil and natural gas wells. Under these laws and regulations, we could also be liable for personal injuries, property and natural resource damage and other damages. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Moreover, public interest in environmental protection has increased in recent years, and environmental organizations have opposed, with some success, certain drilling projects. Part of the regulatory environment in which we operate includes, in some cases, legal requirements for obtaining environmental assessments, environmental impact studies and/or plans of development before commencing drilling and production activities. In addition, our activities are subject to the regulations regarding conservation practices and protection of correlative rights. These regulations affect our operations and limit the quantity of natural gas we may produce and sell. A major risk inherent in our drilling plans is the need to obtain drilling permits from state and local authorities. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals or drilling permits, the failure to obtain a drilling permit for a well or the receipt of a permit with unreasonable conditions or costs could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop our properties. Additionally, the oil and natural gas regulatory environment could change in ways that might substantially increase the financial and managerial costs of compliance with these laws and regulations and, consequently, adversely affect our profitability. At this time, we cannot predict the effect of this increase on our results of operations. Furthermore, we may be put at a competitive disadvantage to larger companies in our industry that can spread these additional costs over a greater number of wells and larger operating staff. Please read “Item1. Business—Operations—Environmental and Occupational Health and Safety Matters” and “Item 1. Business—Operations—Other Regulation of the Oil and Natural Gas Industry” for a description of the laws and regulations that affect us. Shortages of drilling rigs, supplies, oilfield services, equipment and crews could delay our operations and reduce our cash available for distribution. Higher oil, natural gas and NGLs prices generally increase the demand for drilling rigs, supplies, services, equipment and crews, and can lead to shortages of, and increasing costs for, drilling equipment, services and personnel. In the past, we and other oil, natural gas and NGLs companies have experienced higher drilling and operating costs. Shortages of, or increasing costs for, experienced drilling crews and equipment and services could restrict our ability to drill the wells and conduct the operations that we currently have planned. Sustained periods of lower oil, natural gas and NGLs prices could bring about the closure or downsizing of entities providing drilling services, supplies, oil field services, equipment and crews. Any delay in the drilling of new wells or significant increase in drilling costs could reduce our revenues and cash available for distribution.Risks Related to Our StructureWe may issue additional units without unitholder approval, which would dilute their existing ownership interests.We may issue an unlimited number of limited liability company interests of any type, including units, without the approval of our unitholders. The issuance of additional units or other equity securities may have the following effects: •the proportionate ownership interest of unitholders in us may decrease;•the amount of cash distributed on each unit may decrease;•the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and•the market price of the units may decline.Our limited liability company agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our units. Our limited liability company agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders by providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than persons who acquire such units with the prior approval of the board of directors, cannot vote on any matter. Our limited liability agreement also contains provisions limiting 41the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Our limited liability company agreement provides for a limited call right that may require unitholders to sell their units at an undesirable time or price. If, at any time, any person owns more than 90% of the units then outstanding, such person has the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the remaining units then outstanding at a price not less than the then-current market price of the units. As a result, unitholders may be required to sell their units at an undesirable time or price and therefore may receive a lower or no return on their investment. Unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units.We do not have the same flexibility as other types of organizations to accumulate cash and equity to protect against illiquidity in the future. Unlike a corporation, our limited liability company agreement requires us to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders of all available cash reduced by any amounts of reserves for commitments and contingencies, including capital and operating costs and debt service requirements. On August 2, 2012, our board of directors announced a change in the payment of our distributions from quarterly to monthly commencing with the July 2012 distribution. The value of our units may decrease in direct correlation with decreases in the amount we distribute per unit. Accordingly, if we experience a liquidity problem in the future, we may have difficulty issuing more equity to recapitalize.Our management may have conflicts of interest with the unitholders. Our limited liability company agreement limits the remedies available to our unitholders in the event unitholders have a claim relating to conflicts of interest. Conflicts of interest may arise between our management on one hand, and the Company and our unitholders on the other hand, related to the divergent interests of our management. Situations in which the interests of our management may differ from interests of our non-affiliated unitholders include, among others, the following situations:•our limited liability company agreement gives our Board of Directors broad discretion in establishing cash reserves for the proper conduct of our business, which will affect the amount of cash available for distribution. For example, our management will use its reasonable discretion to establish and maintain cash reserves sufficient to fund our drilling program;•our management team, subject to oversight from our Board of Directors, determines the timing and extent of our drilling program and related capital expenditures, asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuances of additional units and reserve adjustments, all of which will affect the amount of cash that we distribute to our unitholders; and•affiliates of our directors are not prohibited under our limited liability company agreement from investing or engaging in other businesses or activities that compete with the Company.The price of our common units could be subject to wide fluctuations, unitholders could lose a significant part of their investment. During 2012, our unit price fluctuated from a closing low of $23.29 to a closing high of $30.00. The market price of our common units is subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot control, including: •fluctuations in broader securities market prices and volumes, particularly among securities of oil and natural gas companies and securities of publicly traded limited partnerships and limited liability companies;•changes in general conditions in the U.S. economy, financial markets or the oil and natural gas industry;•changes in securities analysts’ recommendations and their estimates of our financial performance;•the public’s reaction to our press releases, announcements and our filings with the SEC;•changes in market valuations of similar companies;•departures of key personnel;42•commencement of or involvement in litigation;•variations in our quarterly results of operations or those of other oil and natural gas companies;•variations in the amount of our monthly cash distributions; and•future issuances and sales of our units.In recent years, the securities market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Future market fluctuations may result in a lower price of our common units. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions.Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 18-607 of the Delaware Revised Limited Liability Company Act, or the “Delaware Act,” we may not make a distribution to unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of an impermissible distribution, members or unitholders who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited liability company for the distribution amount. A purchaser of common units who becomes a member or unitholder is liable for the obligations of the transferring member to make contributions to the limited liability company that are known to such purchaser of units at the time it became a member and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from our limited liability company agreement. An increase in interest rates may cause the market price of our common units to decline.Like all equity investments, an investment in our common units is subject to certain risks. In exchange for accepting these risks, investors may expect to receive a higher rate of return than would otherwise be obtainable from lower-risk investments. Accordingly, as interest rates rise, the ability of investors to obtain higher risk-adjusted rates of return by purchasing government-backed debt securities may cause a corresponding decline in demand for riskier investments generally, including yield-based equity investments such as publicly-traded limited liability company interests. Reduced demand for our units resulting from investors seeking other more favorable investment opportunities may cause the trading price of our common units to decline. Tax Risks to UnitholdersOur tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or we were to become subject to material additional amounts of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, taxes paid, if any, would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our units depends largely on us being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. Despite the fact that we are a limited liability company (LLC) under Delaware law, a publicly traded LLC such as us may be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes unless it satisfies a “qualifying income” requirement. Failing to meet the qualifying income requirement or a change in current law may cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rates, currently at a maximum rate of 35%, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gain, loss, deduction or credit recognized by us would flow through to unitholders. Because a tax may be imposed on us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders could be reduced. Therefore, treatment of VNR as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Current law or our business may change so as to cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation.43 At the state level, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships and limited liability companies to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. For example, we are required to pay Texas franchise tax which is assessed on Texas sourced taxable margin defined as the lesser of (i) 70% of total revenue or (ii) total revenue less (a) cost of goods sold or (b) compensation and benefits. If any other state were to impose a tax upon us as an entity, the cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be reduced.The tax treatment of publicly-traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis.The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly-traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time. For example, from time to time, members of the U.S. Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. One such legislative proposal would eliminate the qualifying income exception to the treatment of all publicly traded partnerships as corporations upon which we rely for our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will be reintroduced or will ultimately be enacted. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws may be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible to meet the exception for certain publicly-traded partnerships to be treated as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, it is possible that a change in law could affect us and may, if enacted, be applied retroactively. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units.If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our units may be adversely impacted and the costs of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take and a court may disagree with some or all of those positions. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will result in a reduction in cash available for distribution to our unitholders and thus will be borne indirectly by our unitholders. Unitholders may be required to pay taxes on income from us even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us.Because our unitholders will be treated as partners in us for federal income tax purposes to whom we will allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, unitholders will be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income, whether or not they receive cash distributions from us. Unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from their share of our taxable income. Tax gain or loss on disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected.If unitholders sell their common units, they will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of a unitholder’s allocable share of our net taxable income decreases the tax basis in the unitholder’s common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units they sell will, in effect, become taxable income to them if they sell such units at a price greater than their tax basis in those units, even if the price they receive is less than their original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation deductions. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder’s share of our liabilities, if a unitholders sells their units, they may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash they receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in units by tax-exempt entities, including employee benefit plans, individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs) and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to such a unitholder. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes imposed at the 44highest effective applicable tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file U.S. federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If you are a tax exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our units. We treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain on the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audits of and adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We generally prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. Nonetheless, we allocate certain deductions for depreciation of capital additions based upon the date the underlying property is placed in service. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. The U.S. Treasury Department has issued proposed Treasury Regulations that provide a safe harbor pursuant to which publicly traded partnerships may use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items. Nonetheless, the proposed regulations do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.A unitholder whose units are the subject of a securities loan (e.g. a loan to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of common units) may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because there is no tax concept of loaning a partnership interest, a unitholder whose units are the subject of a securities loan may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units. In that case, he may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller should modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have constructively terminated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same interest will be counted only once. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and our unitholders receiving two Schedules K-1) for one fiscal year and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes but instead, we would be treated as a new partnership for federal income tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax election and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred. The IRS has announced a relief procedure whereby if a publicly traded partnership that has technically terminated requests and the IRS grants special relief, among other things, the partnership may be permitted to provide only a single Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the tax year in which the termination occurs. 45Certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. The Fiscal Year 2013 Budget proposed by the President recommends the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and gas exploration and production companies, and legislation has been introduced in Congress which would implement many of these proposals. These changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities, and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether these or similar changes will be enacted and, if enacted, how soon any such changes could become effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, and any such change could increase the taxable income allocable to our unitholders and negatively impact the value of an investment in our units. As a result of investing in our common units, you may become subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where we operate or own or acquire property. In addition to federal income taxes, you will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if you do not live in any of those jurisdictions. You will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, you may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently own property and conduct business in Texas, New Mexico, Mississippi, Montana, North Dakota, Oklahoma, Arkansas, Colorado and Wyoming. Each of these states, other than Texas and Wyoming, imposes an income tax on individuals. Most of these states also impose an income tax on corporations and other entities. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is your responsibility to file all U.S. federal, state and local tax returns.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 