Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe factors described below represent our principal risks. Other factors may exist that we do not consider to be significant based on information that is currently available or that we are not currently able to anticipate. Our stockholders or potential investors may be referred to as "you" or "your" in this Item 1A, "Risk Factors" section.Risks Related to Our Business and OperationsThe concentration of our investments in the multifamily sector may leave our profitability vulnerable to a downturn or slowdown in such sector.13Table of ContentsOur investments are concentrated in the multifamily sector. As a result, we are subject to risks inherent in investments in multifamily properties and real estate-related assets. The potential effects on our revenues, and as a result, on cash available for distribution to our stockholders, resulting from a downturn or slowdown in the multifamily sector could be more pronounced than if we had more fully diversified our investments.We are subject to many risks in the process of becoming a self-managed company, and the transition may not prove successful.On July 31, 2013, we entered into a series of agreements and amendments to our existing agreements and arrangements with the Advisor and its affiliates (“Behringer”) in order to begin the process to become self-managed. Effective July 31, 2013, we and Behringer entered into a master modification agreement (the “Modification Agreement”), setting forth various terms of and conditions to the modification of the business relationships between us and Behringer. At the initial closing on July 31, 2013 (the “Initial Closing”) of the Modification Agreement, Behringer waived the non-solicitation and non-hire provisions contained in the agreements with the Company with respect to five executive officers who previously provided services on our behalf as employees of Behringer. The completion of the remainder of the self-management transactions contemplated by the Modification Agreement will occur at a second closing (the “Self-Management Closing”), which is expected to occur on June 30, 2014. At the Self-Management Closing, Behringer will waive the non-solicitation and non-hire provisions related to identified individuals currently providing us advisory and property management services under the advisory and property management agreements. We plan to supplement these identified individuals with additional employees that have no prior affiliation with Behringer. As of February 28, 2014, we have hired two additional employees and intend to hire other employees both before and after June 30, 2014 in our transition to self-management. The obligations of the parties to consummate the self-management transactions are subject to certain limited conditions, and there can be no assurance that the Self-Management Closing will occur. Until the Self-Management Closing occurs, we must rely on Behringer to maintain the team of professionals and staff providing advisory and property management services that are currently employed by Behringer for our benefit. In addition, we will rely on Behringer to provide us with general transition services in support of our transition to self-management. If Behringer is unwilling or unable to do so, our transition to a self-managed company will be more costly or may not be successful, and your investment in us could suffer. In addition, we cannot be certain that the entire team of professionals and staff providing advisory and property management services that are currently employed by Behringer for our benefit will agree to become our employees following the Self-Management Closing. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results.Furthermore, we cannot be certain that a transition to a self-managed company will improve our financial performance or otherwise prove to be beneficial to us and our stockholders. Initially, we will recognize costs associated with the negotiation and implementation of the Modification Agreement and related transactions which will hurt our financial performance. Although we believe that becoming self-managed will ultimately prove accretive to our stockholders, this will depend on a number of factors, including but not limited to: (a) the long-term difference between the costs and expenses of being externally-managed versus being self-managed, (b) the consideration paid to Behringer in connection with the Modification Agreement and related transactions, and (c) the additional opportunities that arise as a result of being self-managed. When we complete our transition to a self-managed company, while we will no longer bear the costs of the various fees and expenses we currently pay to our Advisor and its affiliates, our direct expenses will include general and administrative costs, including legal, accounting, office costs, and other expenses related to corporate governance and reporting and compliance with securities laws. We will also incur the compensation and benefits costs of our officers and other employees and consultants that are now paid by our Advisor or its affiliates. In addition, we may issue equity awards to our officers, employees and consultants, which awards would decrease net income, funds from operations and modified funds from operations and may further dilute your investment. If the expenses we assume as a result of becoming self-managed are higher than the expenses we avoid paying to our Advisor, our net income per share and modified funds from operations per share would be lower as a result of the transition to self-management than it otherwise would have been, potentially decreasing the amount of funds available to distribute to our stockholders and the value of our shares.We are now dependent on some of our own employees and will become more dependent on our own employees upon the Self-Management Closing. As of February 28, 2014, we rely on seven of our own employees to carry out our business and investment strategies. These seven employees include five of our most senior executives who will constitute a majority of our senior management executives after the Self-Management Closing. We are now solely responsible for compensating and retaining these employees. Upon the Self-Management Closing, we expect that the remaining professionals and staff providing advisory and property 14Table of Contentsmanagement services that are currently employed by Behringer for our benefit will also become our employees. At such time, we will be solely responsible for the hiring, compensation and retention of all of these employees. Any of these employees may cease to provide services to us at any time. The loss of the services of any of our key management personnel, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. As we operate our business, we will continue to try to attract and retain qualified senior management and personnel, but may not be able to do so on attractive terms. Our net income, funds from operations (“FFO”), and modified funds from operations (“MFFO”) may decrease in the near- term as a result of our transition to a self-managed company. Our net income, FFO, and MFFO may decrease as a result of becoming a self-managed company. While we will no longer bear the costs of certain fees and expense reimbursements previously paid to the Advisor and its affiliates, our expenses will include the compensation and benefits of our officers, employees, and consultants, as well as overhead previously paid by the Advisor and its affiliates. Furthermore, these employees will be providing us services historically provided by the Advisor and its affiliates. There are no assurances that, following our transition to a self-managed company, we will be able to provide those services for the same costs as were previously provided to us by the Advisor and its affiliates, and there may be unforeseen costs, expenses, and difficulties associated with providing those services on a self-managed basis. If the expenses we assume as a result of becoming self-managed are higher than we anticipate, our net income, FFO, and MFFO may be lower as a result of the transition to self-management than they otherwise would have been. See Part II, Item 7, “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion regarding FFO and MFFO, including reconciliations to net income in accordance with GAAP.In connection with becoming self-managed, we will be exposed to risks to which we have not historically been exposed. Our transition to a self-managed company exposes us to risks to which we have not historically been exposed. As a company with employees, we are now subject to those potential liabilities that are commonly faced by employers, such as workers’ disability and compensation claims, potential labor disputes, office costs, and other employee-related liabilities and grievances, and we bear the costs of the establishment and maintenance of any employee compensation plans. Furthermore, there may be unforeseen costs, expenses, and difficulties associated with providing services previously provided by the Advisor and its affiliates. We will incur costs associated with changing our name.In connection with the Modification Agreement and our transition to self-management, we entered into an amended license agreement with Behringer that permits us to use the name “Behringer Harvard” subject to certain limitations and conditions. The term of the license agreement will last until the earlier to occur of (a) the expiration or termination for any reason of either our advisory management agreement or property management agreement with our Advisor and the Property Manager, respectively, or (b) the Self-Management Closing. Upon termination, we must stop using the name “Behringer Harvard” and similar terms within 90 days and will therefore be required to change our name. We will be required to pay any costs associated with changing our name.We may suffer from delays in locating suitable investments, which could adversely affect the return on your investment.Our ability to achieve our investment objectives and to make distributions to our stockholders is dependent upon the performance of our Advisor and our employees in the acquisition of our investments and the determination of any financing arrangements as well as the performance of our Property Manager, the selection of multifamily community residents and the negotiation of leases. We currently have available cash, which we are seeking to invest on attractive terms. The current market for properties and real estate-related assets that meet our investment objectives is highly competitive as is the leasing market for multifamily properties. Except for the investments described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you will have no opportunity to evaluate the terms of transactions or other economic or financial data concerning our investments. You must rely entirely on the oversight of our board of directors, the management ability of our Advisor, the performance of the Property Manager and the performance of our employees. We cannot be sure that we will be successful in obtaining suitable investments on financially attractive terms.Additionally, as a public company, we are subject to the ongoing reporting requirements under the Exchange Act. Pursuant to the Exchange Act, we may be required to file with the SEC financial statements of properties we acquire and investments we make in real estate-related assets. To the extent any required financial statements are not available or cannot be obtained, we will not be able to acquire the investment. As a result, we may not be able to acquire certain properties or real estate-related assets that otherwise would be a suitable investment. We could suffer delays in our investment acquisitions due to these reporting requirements.15Table of ContentsFurthermore, if we acquire properties prior to the start of construction or during the early stages of construction, it will typically take several months to complete construction and rent available space. Therefore, you could suffer delays in the receipt of distributions attributable to those particular properties. In addition, to the extent our investments are in development or redevelopment projects, communities in lease up, or other assets that have significant capital requirements, our ability to make distributions may be negatively impacted.Delays we encounter in the selection, acquisition and development of properties could adversely affect your returns. In such an event, our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders and the returns to our stockholders would be adversely affected.We may have to make decisions on whether to invest in certain properties or real estate-related assets prior to receipt of detailed information on the investment.In order to effectively compete for the acquisition of properties and other real estate-related assets in the current market, our employees, Advisor and board of directors may be required to make investment decisions and be required to make substantial non-refundable deposits prior to the completion of our analysis and due diligence on a property or real estate-related asset acquisition. In such cases, the information available to our employees, Advisor and board of directors at the time of making any particular investment decision, including the decision to pay any non-refundable deposit and the decision to consummate any particular acquisition, may be limited, and our employees, Advisor and board of directors may not have access to detailed information regarding any particular investment property, such as physical characteristics, environmental matters, zoning regulations or other local conditions affecting the investment property. Therefore, no assurance can be given that our employees, Advisor and board of directors will have knowledge of all circumstances that may adversely affect an investment. In addition, our employees, Advisor and board of directors may rely upon independent consultants in connection with their evaluation of proposed investment properties, and no assurance can be given as to the accuracy or completeness of the information provided by such independent consultants.We have experienced losses in the past and may experience similar losses in the future. For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2010, we had net losses of $30.2 million and $34.6 million, respectively. Our losses can be attributed, in part, to depreciation and amortization of operating properties and related intangibles. For the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2011, we reported net income of $32.6 million and $94.5 million, respectively, due to gains on sale of real estate in 2013 and due in part to non-recurring gains related to revaluation of equity on business combinations in 2011. We cannot assure you that, in the future, we will be profitable or that we will realize growth in the value of our assets.Payment of fees to our Advisor and its affiliates will reduce cash available to us for investment and payment of distributions.Our Advisor and its affiliates perform services for us in connection with, among other things, the selection and acquisition of our properties and real estate-related assets, the management of our properties, the servicing of our mortgage, bridge, mezzanine or other loans, the administration of our other investments and the disposition of our assets. They are paid substantial fees for these services. In addition, as described above, we will pay fees to our Advisor and its affiliates pursuant to the Modification Agreement and related agreements in connection with our transition to a self-managed company. These fees will reduce the amount of cash available for investment or distributions to stockholders.If our sponsor, our Advisor or its affiliates waive or defer certain fees due to them, our results of operations and distributions may be artificially high.From time to time, our sponsor, our Advisor or its affiliates have agreed, and may agree in the future, (1) to waive or defer all or a portion of the acquisition, asset management or other fees, cost reimbursements, compensation or incentives due to them, (2) to pay general administrative expenses or (3) to otherwise supplement stockholder returns in order to increase the amount of cash available to make distributions to stockholders. If our sponsor, our Advisor or its affiliates choose to no longer waive or defer such fees and incentives, our results of operations will be lower than in previous periods and your return on your investment could be negatively affected.Distributions may be paid from capital and there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain distributions at any particular level, or at all.There are many factors that can affect the availability and timing of cash distributions to stockholders. Distributions generally will be based upon such factors as the amount of cash available or anticipated to be available from real estate investments, mortgage, bridge or mezzanine loans and other investments, current and projected cash requirements and tax considerations. Because we may receive income from interest or rents at various times during our fiscal year, distributions paid may not reflect our income earned in that particular distribution period. The amount of cash available for distributions will be affected by many factors, such the performance of our existing assets, our ability to acquire additional properties and real 16Table of Contentsestate-related assets with available cash, the income from those investments, as well as our operating expense levels and many other variables. Actual cash available for distribution may vary substantially from estimates. We can give no assurance that we will be able to achieve our anticipated cash flow or that distributions will be maintained or increase over time. Nor can we give any assurance that: (1) rents from the properties will increase; (2) the securities we buy will increase in value or provide constant or increased distributions over time; (3) the loans we make will be repaid or paid on time; (4) loans will generate the interest payments that we expect; or (5) future acquisitions of properties, mortgage, bridge or mezzanine loans, other investments or our investments in securities will increase our cash available for distributions to stockholders. Our actual results may differ significantly from the assumptions used by our board of directors in establishing the distribution rates to stockholders.Many of the factors that can affect the availability and timing of cash distributions to stockholders are beyond our control, and a change in any one factor could adversely affect our ability to pay future distributions. For instance:•If a significant number of multifamily residents default or terminate on their leases, there could be a decrease or cessation of rental payments, which would mean less cash available for distributions.•Any failure by a borrower under our mortgage, bridge, mezzanine or other loans to repay the loans or interest on the loans will reduce our income and distributions to stockholders.•Cash available for distributions may be reduced if we are required to spend money to correct defects or to make improvements to properties.•Cash available to make distributions may decrease if the assets we acquire have lower yields than expected.•There may be a delay in investment of our available cash in additional properties and real estate-related assets. During that time, we may invest in lower yielding short-term instruments, which could result in a lower yield on your investment.•If we lend money to others, such funds may not be repaid in accordance with the loan terms or at all, which could reduce cash available for distributions.•Federal income tax laws require REITs to distribute at least 90% of their REIT taxable income to stockholders each year to maintain REIT status, and 100% of taxable income and net capital gain to avoid federal income tax. This limits the earnings that we may retain for corporate growth, such as asset acquisition, development or expansion and makes us more dependent upon additional debt or equity financing than corporations that are not REITs. If we borrow more funds in the future, more of our operating cash will be needed to make debt payments and cash available for distributions may decrease.•In connection with future acquisitions, we may issue additional shares of common stock, operating partnership units or interests in other entities that own our properties. We cannot predict the number of shares of common stock, units or interests that we may issue, or the effect that these additional shares might have on cash available for distribution to you. If we issue additional shares, they could reduce the cash available for distribution to you.•We make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the distribution requirements of the Code and to eliminate, or at least minimize, exposure to federal income taxes and the nondeductible REIT excise tax. Differences in timing between the receipt of income and the payment of expenses, and the effect of required debt payments, could require us to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the distribution requirements that are necessary to achieve the tax benefits associated with qualifying as a REIT.Further, our board of directors, in its discretion, may retain any portion of our cash on hand for capital needs and improvements. We cannot assure you that sufficient cash will be available to make distributions to you.We have, and may in the future, pay distributions from sources other than our cash flow from operating activities and if we continue to do so, we will have less funds available to make investments and your overall return may be reduced.Our organizational documents permit us to fund distributions from any source, such as our distribution reinvestment plan or other offerings, cash advances to us by our Advisor, cash resulting from a waiver of asset management fees, and borrowings, including borrowings secured by our assets, in anticipation of future cash flow from operating activities. The total regular distributions paid to common stockholders (including distributions reinvested pursuant to our DRIP) in the twelve months ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 were approximately $59.0 million, $72.0 million, and $79.7 million, respectively. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, cash flows from operating activities net of distributions paid to noncontrolling interests related to operating activities were approximately $51.6 million, $42.9 million, and $29.9 million, respectively. Accordingly, for the twelve months ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, cash flows from operating activities net of distributions paid to noncontrolling interests related to operating activities constituted approximately 87%, 60%, and 38% of regular distributions paid to common stockholders, respectively. We expect that cash distributions to our stockholders generally will be paid from cash available or anticipated from our share of the cash flow from our investments in properties, real estate securities, mortgage, bridge or mezzanine loans and other real estate-related assets. During periods when our operating cash flow has not generated sufficient operating cash flow to fully 17Table of Contentsfund the payment of distributions on our common stock, we have paid and may in the future pay some or all of our distributions from sources other than operating cash flow, including portions of our available cash balances, cash advanced to us by our Advisor, cash resulting from a waiver or deferral of asset management fees, cash from the sale of our assets, borrowings (including borrowings secured by our assets) and proceeds from future equity offerings. In addition, to the extent our investments are in development or redevelopment projects, in communities that are in lease up or have not yet reached stabilization, or in properties that have significant capital requirements, our ability to make distributions may be negatively impacted. Accordingly, the amount of distributions paid at any time may not reflect current cash flow from our operations. To the extent distributions are paid in amounts that exceed our operating cash flow in anticipation of future cash flow, we will have less capital available to invest in properties and other real estate-related assets, which may negatively impact our ability to make investments and reduce current returns and capital appreciation. Further, to the extent distributions exceed certain specified amounts of taxable income, a stockholder's tax basis in our stock will be reduced and, to the extent distributions exceed a stockholder's basis, the stockholder may recognize capital gains for federal and state tax purposes.Our revenue and net income may vary significantly from one period to another due to investments in opportunity-oriented properties and portfolio acquisitions, which could increase the variability of our cash available for distributions.We have made and may continue to make investments in opportunity-oriented properties in various phases of development, redevelopment or repositioning and portfolio acquisitions, which may cause our revenues and net income to fluctuate significantly from one period to another. Projects do not produce revenue while in development or redevelopment. During any period when the number of our projects in development or redevelopment, communities in lease up or our properties with significant capital requirements increases without a corresponding increase in stable revenue-producing properties, our revenues and net income will likely decrease. Many factors may have a negative impact on the level of revenues or net income produced by our portfolio of investments, including higher than expected construction costs, failure to complete projects on a timely basis, failure of the properties to perform at expected levels upon completion of development or redevelopment, and increased borrowings necessary to fund higher than expected construction or other costs related to the project. Further, our net income and stockholders' equity could be negatively affected during periods with large portfolio acquisitions, which generally require large cash outlays and may require the incurrence of additional financing. Any such reduction in our revenues and net income during such periods could cause a resulting decrease in our cash available for distributions during the same periods.Development projects in which we invest may not be completed successfully or on time, and guarantors of the projects may not have the financial resources to perform their obligations under the guaranties they provide.We may make equity investments in, acquire options to purchase interests in or make mezzanine loans to the owners of real estate development projects. Our return on these investments is dependent upon the projects being completed successfully, on budget and on time. To help ensure performance by the developers of properties that are under construction, completion of these properties is generally guaranteed either by a completion bond or performance bond. Our employees and Advisor may rely upon the substantial net worth of the contractor or developer or a personal guarantee accompanied by financial statements showing a substantial net worth provided by an affiliate of the entity entering into the construction or development contract as an alternative to a completion bond or performance bond. For a particular investment, we may obtain guaranties that the project will be completed on time, on budget and in accordance with the plans and specifications and that the mezzanine loan will be repaid. However, we may not obtain such guaranties and cannot ensure that the guarantors will have the financial resources to perform their obligations under the guaranties they provide. We intend to manage these risks by ensuring, to the best of our ability, that we invest in projects with reputable, experienced and resourceful developers. If we are unable to manage these risks effectively, our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make distributions to you will be adversely affected.The developers of the projects in which we have invested are exposed to risks not only with respect to our projects, but also with respect to other projects in which they are involved. A developer's obligations on another project could cause it financial hardship and even lead to bankruptcy, which could lead to a default on one of our projects. A default by a developer in respect of one of our multifamily development project investments, or the bankruptcy, insolvency or other failure of a developer for one of such projects, may require that we determine whether we want to assume the senior loan, take over development of the project, find another developer for the project, or sell our interest in the project. Such developer failures could delay efforts to complete or sell the development project and could ultimately preclude us from full realization of our anticipated returns. Such events could cause a decrease in the value of our assets and compel us to seek additional sources of liquidity, which may not be available, in order to hold and complete the development project through stabilization.Generally, under bankruptcy law and our bankruptcy guarantees with our joint venture development partners, we may seek recourse from the developer-guarantor to complete our development project with a substitute developer partner. However, in the event of a bankruptcy by the developer-guarantor, we cannot assure you that the developer or its trustee will continue or otherwise satisfy its obligations. The bankruptcy of any developer and the rejection of its development obligations would likely cause us to have to complete the development on our own or find a replacement developer, which could result in delays and 18Table of Contentsincreased costs. We cannot assure you that we would be able to complete the development on terms as favorable as when we first entered into the project.In some cases, in order to obtain financing on a development project, we may be asked to provide recourse, completion or payment guarantees to the lender. This would increase our risk of loss in the event of a developer failing to perform its obligations to us.We have relatively less experience with respect to international investments as compared to domestic investments, which could adversely affect our return on international investments.The experience of our employees and our Advisor and its affiliates with respect to investing in multifamily communities or other real estate-related assets located outside the United States is not as extensive as it is with respect to investments in the United States. We may make international investments after one of our independent directors has at least three years of relevant experience acquiring and managing such international investments. If and when we do make international investments, our relatively limited experience with respect to such investments could adversely affect our return on them.Your investment may be subject to additional risks if we make international investments.In the future, we may make investments in real estate assets located outside the United States and may make or purchase mortgage, bridge, mezzanine or other loans or joint venture interests in mortgage, bridge, mezzanine or other loans made to a borrower located outside the United States or secured by property located outside the United States. Any international investments may be affected by factors peculiar to the laws of the jurisdiction in which the borrower or the property is located. These laws may expose us to risks that are different from and in addition to those commonly found in the United States. Foreign investments could be subject to the following risks:•governmental laws, rules and policies, including laws relating to the foreign ownership of real property or mortgages and laws relating to the ability of foreign persons or corporations to remove profits earned from activities within the country to the person's or corporation's country of origin;•variations in currency exchange rates;•adverse market conditions caused by inflation or other changes in national or local economic conditions;•changes in relative interest rates;•changes in the availability, cost and terms of mortgage funds resulting from varying national economic policies;•changes in real estate and other tax rates, the tax treatment of transaction structures and other changes in operating expenses in a particular country where we have an investment;•our REIT tax status not being respected under foreign laws, in which case our income or gains from foreign sources would likely be subject to foreign taxes, withholding taxes, transfer taxes and value added taxes;•lack of uniform accounting standards (including availability of information in accordance with GAAP);•changes in land use and zoning laws;•more stringent environmental laws or changes in these laws;•changes in the social stability or other political, economic or diplomatic developments in or affecting a country where we have an investment;•we, our employees, our sponsor and our Advisor and its affiliates have relatively less experience investing in real property or other investments outside the United States than within the United States; and•legal and logistical barriers to enforcing our contractual rights.Any of these risks could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and ability to pay distributions to our stockholders.If we lose or are unable to obtain key personnel, our ability to implement our business strategies could be delayed or hindered.Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our executive officers and other key personnel of us, our Advisor and its affiliates, including Robert S. Aisner, Mark T. Alfieri, Howard S. Garfield, Daniel J. Rosenberg, Ross P. Odland, Margaret M. Daly, Robert T. Poynter, James A. Fadley and James J. McGinley, III, each of whom would be difficult to replace. Although we have employment agreements with all of our executive officers except Mr. Aisner, the employment terms are terminable upon notice, and we cannot guarantee that we will retain our executive officers. We do not have employment agreements with other key personnel of us, our Advisor and its affiliates, and we cannot guarantee that they will remain affiliated with us or become our employees in connection with our transition to self-management. If any of our executive officers or other key personnel were to cease their affiliation with us, or with our Advisor or its affiliates prior to the Self-Management Closing, our operating results could suffer. We believe that our future success depends, in large part, upon our ability and, prior to the Self-Management Closing, our Advisor's and its affiliates' ability to hire and retain highly skilled managerial, operational and marketing personnel. Competition for persons with these managerial and operational skills is 19Table of Contentsintense, and we cannot assure you that we or our Advisor will be successful in attracting and retaining such skilled personnel. Further, we have established, and intend in the future to establish, strategic relationships with firms that have special expertise in certain services or as to assets both nationally and in certain geographic regions. Maintaining these relationships will be important for us to effectively compete for assets. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such strategic relationships. If we lose or are unable to obtain the services of executive officers and other key personnel or do not establish or maintain appropriate strategic relationships, our ability to implement our business strategies could be delayed or hindered, and our operations and financial results could suffer.Under certain circumstances, assets owned by a subsidiary REIT may be required to be disposed of via a sale of capital stock rather than an asset sale.Under certain circumstances, assets owned by a subsidiary REIT may be required to be disposed of via a sale of capital stock rather than as asset sale by that subsidiary REIT, which may limit the number of persons willing to acquire indirectly any assets held by that subsidiary REIT. As a result, we may not be able to realize a return on our investment in a joint venture, such as a PGGM CO-JV or MW CO-JV, at the time or on the terms we desire.The failure of any bank in which we deposit our funds could reduce the amount of cash we have available to pay distributions and make additional investments.We invest our cash and cash equivalents between several banking institutions in an attempt to minimize exposure to any one of these entities. However, the FDIC generally only insures limited amounts per depositor per insured bank. As of December 31, 2013, we had cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash deposited in interest bearing transaction accounts at certain financial institutions exceeding these federally insured levels. If any of the banking institutions in which we have deposited funds ultimately fails, we may lose our deposits over the federally insured levels. The loss of our deposits could reduce the amount of cash we have available to distribute or invest.Market disruptions may adversely impact aspects of our operating results and operating condition. During 2011, the major credit agencies downgraded or placed under review the credit rating for debt issued by the U.S. government and U.S. agencies, due in part to the political uncertainties over U.S. debt limits. Congress subsequently enacted the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 in an attempt to eliminate the so called "fiscal cliff" in January 2013. There is continuing political deadlock in the U.S. regarding the "debt ceiling" and there continues to be a perceived risk of future sovereign credit ratings downgrade of the U.S. government, including the ratings of the U.S. Treasury securities. Failure of Congress to raise the "debt ceiling" and/or a downgrade of U.S. sovereign credit ratings could negatively impact the credit ratings of instruments issued, insured or guaranteed by institutions, agencies or instrumentalities directly linked to the U.S. government, such as debt issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. In addition, although the European debt crisis has moderated, there is some risk that higher-risk European countries with high sovereign debt and budget deficits could face pressure over proposed austerity measures. Such events could reduce investor confidence and lead to further weakening of the U.S. and global economies. In particular, this could cause disruption in the capital markets and impact the stability of future U.S. Treasury auctions and the trading market for U.S. government securities, resulting in increased interest rates and borrowing costs and less availability of credit.Our business may be affected by market and economic challenges experienced by the U.S. and global economies or real estate industry as a whole or by the local economic conditions in the markets in which our properties are located. These conditions may materially affect the value of our investment properties, and may affect our ability to pay distributions, the availability or the terms of financing that we have or may anticipate utilizing, and our ability to make principal and interest payments on, or refinance, any outstanding debt when due. These challenging economic conditions may also impact the ability of certain of our tenants to enter into new leasing transactions or satisfy rental payments under existing leases. Specifically, recent global market disruptions may have many consequences including, but not limited to, these listed below:•significant job losses have occurred and may continue to occur, which may decrease demand for our multifamily communities and result in lower occupancy levels, which will result in decreased revenues and which could diminish the value of our properties, which depend, in part, upon the cash flow generated by our properties;•credit spreads for major sources of capital could widen as investors demand higher risk premiums, resulting in lenders increasing the cost for debt financing;•our ability to borrow on terms and conditions that we find acceptable, or at all, may be limited, which could result in our investment operations generating lower overall economic returns and a reduced level of cash flow, which could potentially impact our ability to make distributions to our stockholders at current levels, reduce our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities if any, and increase our interest expense;20Table of Contents•a reduction in the amount of capital that is available to finance real estate, which, in turn, could lead to a decline in real estate values generally, slow real estate transaction activity, reduce the loan to value ratio upon which lenders are willing to lend, and result in difficulty refinancing our debt; and•the value and liquidity of our short-term investments could be reduced as a result of the dislocation of the markets for our short-term investments and increased volatility in market rates for such investments or other factors.We are uncertain of our sources for funding of future capital needs, which could adversely affect the value of our investments.Substantially all of the proceeds of the Initial Public Offering have been used to make investments in real estate and real estate-related assets and to pay various fees and expenses related to the offering. We establish capital reserves on a property-by-property basis, as we deem appropriate. In addition to any reserves we establish, a lender may require escrow of capital reserves in excess of our established reserves. If these reserves are insufficient to meet our cash needs, we may have to obtain financing from either affiliated or unaffiliated sources to fund our cash requirements. Accordingly, in the event that we develop a need for additional capital in the future for the improvement of our properties or for any other reason, we have not identified any sources for such funding, and we cannot assure you that such sources of funding will be available to us for potential capital needs in the future.Recent disruptions in the financial markets could adversely affect the multifamily property sector's ability to obtain financing and credit enhancement from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which could adversely impact us. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are major sources of financing for the multifamily sector. In response to the deteriorating financial condition of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the recent credit market disruption, the U.S. Congress and Treasury undertook a series of actions to stabilize these government-sponsored enterprises and the financial markets. Pursuant to legislation enacted in 2008, the U.S. government placed both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac under its conservatorship. Currently, the U.S. government is discussing potential restructurings of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac including possible privatizations. As a possible first step to these actions, in August 2012, the U.S. government imposed minimum distribution requirements for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, generally equal to their reported net income.Currently, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac remain active multifamily lenders. As of December 31, 2013, we and our Co-Investment Ventures secured approximately 68% of our financing through Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. However, there is significant uncertainty surrounding the futures of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. In February 2011, the Obama administration released a report calling for the winding down of the role that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac play in the mortgage market. Should Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have their mandates changed or reduced, be disbanded or reorganized by the government or otherwise discontinue providing liquidity to our sector, it would significantly reduce our access to debt capital and/or increase borrowing costs. If new U.S. government regulations heighten Fannie Mae's and Freddie Mac's underwriting standards, adversely affect interest rates and reduce the amount of capital they can make available to the multifamily sector, it could have a material adverse effect on both the multifamily sector and us because many private alternative sources of funding have been reduced or are unavailable. Any potential reduction in loans, guarantees and credit-enhancement arrangements from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could jeopardize the effectiveness of the multifamily sector's derivative securities market, potentially causing breaches in loan covenants, and through reduced loan availability, impact the value of multifamily assets, which could impair the value of a significant portion of multifamily communities. Specifically, the potential for a decrease in liquidity made available to the multifamily sector by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could: (1) make it more difficult for us to secure new takeout financing for current multifamily development projects; (2) hinder our ability to refinance completed multifamily assets; (3) decrease the amount of available liquidity and credit that could be used to further diversify our portfolio of multifamily assets; and (4) require us to obtain other sources of debt capital with potentially different terms.To hedge against exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations, we may use derivative financial instruments that may be costly and ineffective and may reduce the overall returns on your investment and affect cash available for distribution to our stockholders.We may use derivative financial instruments to hedge exposures to changes in exchange rates and interest rates on loans secured by our assets and investments in commercial mortgage-backed securities. Derivative instruments may include interest rate swap contracts, interest rate cap or floor contracts, futures or forward contracts, options or repurchase agreements. Our actual hedging decisions are determined in light of the facts and circumstances existing at the time of the hedge and may differ from time to time. Our hedging may fail to protect or could adversely affect us because, among other things:•interest rate hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of rising and volatile interest rates;•available interest rate hedging may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought;•the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability or asset;21Table of Contents•the amount of income that a REIT may earn from hedging transactions to offset interest rate losses is limited by federal tax provisions governing REITs;•the credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction;•the party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay; and•we may purchase a hedge that turns out not to be necessary, i.e., a hedge that is out of the money.Any hedging activity we engage in may adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Therefore, while we may enter into such transactions to seek to reduce interest rate risks, unanticipated changes in interest rates may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged or liabilities being hedged may vary materially. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended accounting treatment and may expose us to risk of loss.To the extent that we use derivative financial instruments to hedge against exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations, we will be exposed to credit risk, basis risk and legal enforceability risks. In this context, credit risk is the failure of the counterparty to perform under the terms of the derivative contract. If the fair value of a derivative contract is positive, the counterparty owes us, which creates credit risk for us. We intend to manage credit risk by dealing only with major financial institutions that have high credit ratings. Basis risk occurs when the index upon which the contract is based is more or less variable than the index upon which the hedged asset or liability is based, thereby making the hedge less effective. We intend to manage basis risk by matching, to a reasonable extent, the contract index to the index upon which the hedged asset or liability is based. Finally, legal enforceability risks encompass general contractual risks, including the risk that the counterparty will breach the terms of, or fail to perform its obligations under, the derivative contract. We intend to manage legal enforceability risks by ensuring, to the best of our ability, that we contract with reputable counterparties and that each counterparty complies with the terms and conditions of the derivative contract. If we are unable to manage these risks effectively, our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make distributions to you will be adversely affected.Hedging instruments often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities and involve risks and costs.The cost of using hedging instruments increases as the period covered by the instrument increases and during periods of rising and volatile interest rates. We may increase our hedging activity and thus increase our hedging costs during periods when interest rates are volatile or rising and hedging costs have increased. In addition, hedging instruments involve risk since they often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities. Consequently, there are no requirements with respect to record keeping, financial responsibility or segregation of customer funds and positions. Furthermore, the enforceability of agreements underlying derivative transactions may depend on compliance with applicable statutory, commodity and other regulatory requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, applicable international requirements. The business failure of a hedging counterparty with whom we enter into a hedging transaction will most likely result in a default. Default by a party with whom we enter into a hedging transaction may result in the loss of unrealized profits and force us to cover our resale commitments, if any, at the then current market price. Although generally we will seek to reserve the right to terminate our hedging positions, it may not always be possible to dispose of or close out a hedging position without the consent of the hedging counterparty, and we may not be able to enter into an offsetting contract in order to cover our risk. We cannot be certain that a liquid secondary market will exist for hedging instruments purchased or sold, and we may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses.Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively.The REIT provisions of the Code may limit our ability to hedge the risks inherent to our operations. From time to time, we may enter into hedging transactions with respect to one or more of our assets or liabilities. Our hedging activities may include entering into interest rate swaps, caps, and floors, options to purchase such items, and futures and forward contracts. Income and gain from "hedging transactions" will be excluded from gross income for purposes of both the 75% and 95% gross income tests. A "hedging transaction" for these purposes means either (1) any transaction entered into in the normal course of our trade or business primarily to manage the risk of interest rate, price changes, or currency fluctuations with respect to borrowings made or to be made, or ordinary obligations incurred or to be incurred, to acquire or carry real estate assets and (2) any transaction entered into primarily to manage the risk of currency fluctuations with respect to any item of income or gain that would be qualifying income under the 75% or 95% gross income test (or any property which generates such income or gain). We are required to clearly identify any such hedging transaction before the close of the day on which it was acquired, 22Table of Contentsoriginated, or entered into and to satisfy other identification requirements. We intend to structure any hedging transactions in a manner that does not jeopardize our qualification as a REIT.There can be no assurance that the direct or indirect effects of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, enacted in July 2010 for the purpose of stabilizing or reforming the financial markets, will not have an adverse effect on our interest rate hedging activities.On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act") became law in the United States. Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act contains a sweeping overhaul of the regulation of privately negotiated derivatives. The provisions of Title VII became effective on July 16, 2011 or, with respect to particular provisions, on such other date specified in the Dodd-Frank Act or by subsequent rulemaking. While the full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our interest rate hedging activities cannot be assessed until implementing rules and regulations are promulgated, the requirements of Title VII may affect our ability to enter into hedging or other risk management transactions, may increase our costs in entering into such transactions, and may result in us entering into such transactions on more unfavorable terms than prior to effectiveness of the Dodd-Frank Act. The occurrence of any of the foregoing events may have an adverse effect on our business.Breaches of ours or our Advisor's data security could materially harm our business and reputation.We, our Advisor and its affiliates collect and retain certain personal information provided by our investors, tenants and employees. While we, our Advisor and its affiliates have implemented a variety of security measures to protect the confidentiality of this information and periodically review and improve their security measures, there can be no assurance that we will be able to prevent unauthorized access to this information. Any breach of these data security measures and loss of this information may result in legal liability and costs (including damages and penalties), as well as damage to our reputation that could materially and adversely affect our business and financial performance.Interruptions or delays in service from our third-party data center hosting facility could harm our business.We utilize third-party data center hosting facilities. All of our data storage is conducted on servers in these facilities. Any damage to, or failure of, the systems of our third-party data centers or the failure of our data centers to meet our capacity requirements could impede or result in interruptions to our day-to-day business operations. Additionally, our failure to effectively manage and communicate our strategies with our third-party data centers, or their failure to perform as required or to properly protect our data, may result in operational difficulties which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If one of our third-party data centers fails, our other third-party data centers may not be able to meet our capacity requirements, which could result in interruptions to our business operations.The data centers have no obligation to renew their agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to renew our agreements with our data centers on commercially reasonable terms, we may experience costs or down time in connection with the transfer to new third-party providers.The occurrence of a natural disaster, an act of terrorism, vandalism or sabotage, a decision to close one or all of our third-party data centers without adequate notice, or other unanticipated problems at our data centers could result in lengthy interruptions in the day-to-day operations of our business. To date, we have not experienced these types of events, but we cannot provide any assurances that they will not occur in the future. If any such event were to occur to our business, our business could be harmed.Your investment return may be reduced if we are required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act; if we or our subsidiaries become an unregistered investment company, we could not continue our business.Neither we nor any of our subsidiaries intend to register as investment companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "Investment Company Act"). If we or any of our subsidiaries were obligated to register as investment companies, we would have to comply with a variety of substantive requirements under the Investment Company Act that impose, among other things:•limitations on capital structure;•restrictions on specified investments;•prohibitions on transactions with affiliates; and•compliance with reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy disclosure and other rules and regulations that would significantly increase our operating expenses.Under the relevant provisions of Section 3(a)(1) of the Investment Company Act, an "investment company" is any issuer that:23Table of Contents•is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily, or proposes to engage primarily, in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities, which criteria we refer to as the primarily engaged test; and•is engaged or proposes to engage in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities and owns or proposes to acquire "investment securities" having a value exceeding 40% of the value of such issuer's total assets on an unconsolidated basis, which criteria we refer to as the 40% test. "Investment securities" excludes U.S. government securities and securities of majority owned subsidiaries that are not themselves investment companies and are not relying on the exception from the definition of investment company under Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) (relating to private investment companies).We believe that we and our operating partnership satisfy both tests above. With respect to the 40% test, most of the entities through which we and our operating partnership own our assets are majority owned subsidiaries that are not themselves investment companies and are not relying on the exceptions from the definition of investment company under Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7).With respect to the primarily engaged test, we and our operating partnership are holding companies. Through the majority owned subsidiaries of our operating partnership, we and our operating partnership are primarily engaged in the non-investment company businesses of these subsidiaries.We believe that most of the subsidiaries of our operating partnership may rely on Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act for an exception from the definition of an investment company. (Any other subsidiaries of our operating partnership should be able to rely on the exceptions for private investment companies pursuant to Section 3(c)(1) and Section 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act.) As reflected in no-action letters, the SEC staff's position on Section 3(c)(5)(C) generally requires that an issuer maintain at least 55% of its assets in "mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate," or qualifying assets; at least 80% of its assets in qualifying assets plus real estate-related assets; and no more than 20% of the value of its assets in other than qualifying assets and real estate-related assets, which we refer to as miscellaneous assets. To constitute a qualifying asset under this 55% requirement, a real estate interest must meet various criteria based on no-action letters.If, however, the value of the subsidiaries of our operating partnership that must rely on Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) is greater than 40% of the value of the assets of our operating partnership, then we and operating partnership may seek to rely on the exception from registration under Section 3(c)(6) if we and our operating partnership are "primarily engaged," through majority owned subsidiaries, in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other interests in real estate. The SEC staff has issued little interpretive guidance with respect to Section 3(c)(6); however, it is our view that we and our operating partnership may rely on Section 3(c)(6) if 55% of the assets of our operating partnership consist of, and at least 55% of the income of our operating partnership is derived from, majority owned subsidiaries that rely on Section 3(c)(5)(C).To maintain compliance with the Investment Company Act, our subsidiaries may be unable to sell assets we would otherwise want them to sell and may need to sell assets we would otherwise wish them to retain. In addition, our subsidiaries may have to acquire additional assets that they might not otherwise have acquired or may have to forego opportunities to make investments that we would otherwise want them to make and would be important to our investment strategy. Moreover, the SEC may issue interpretations with respect to various types of assets that are contrary to our views and current SEC staff interpretations are subject to change, which increases the risk of non-compliance and the risk that we may be forced to make adverse changes to our portfolio.If we were required to register as an investment company but failed to do so, we would be prohibited from engaging in our business and criminal and civil actions could be brought against us. In addition, our contracts would be unenforceable unless a court required enforcement and a court could appoint a receiver to take control of us and liquidate our business.Rapid changes in the values of potential investments in commercial mortgage-backed securities or other real estate-related investments may make it more difficult for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT or exception from the Investment Company Act.If the market value or income potential of our real estate-related investments, including potential investments in commercial mortgage-backed securities, declines as a result of increased interest rates, prepayment rates or other factors, we may need to increase our real estate investments and income and/or liquidate our non-qualifying assets in order to maintain our REIT qualification or our exception from registration under the Investment Company Act. If the decline in real estate asset values and/or income occurs quickly, this may be especially difficult to accomplish. This difficulty may be exacerbated by the illiquid nature of any non-real estate assets that we may own. We may have to make investment decisions that we otherwise would not make absent REIT and Investment Company Act considerations.24Table of ContentsRisks Related to our Common StockThere is no public trading market for shares of our common stock; therefore, it will be difficult for you to sell your shares. If you sell your shares outside of our share redemption program, you may have to sell them at a substantial discount from our estimated per share value.There is no public market for our shares of common stock. In addition, if you sell your shares outside of our share redemption program, you may have to sell them at a substantial discount from our estimated per share value. The minimum purchase requirements and suitability standards imposed on prospective investors in our completed Initial Public Offering also apply to subsequent purchasers of our shares. If you are able to find a buyer for your shares outside of our share redemption program, you may not sell your shares to such buyer unless the buyer meets certain applicable blue sky (state-mandated) suitability standards, which may inhibit your ability to sell your shares. With respect to our share redemption program, it was recently suspended effective with redemptions being sought in the second quarter of 2012 and was reinstated effective with redemptions being sought in the second quarter of 2013. Our share redemption program has volume limitations and our board of directors may reject any request for redemption of shares or amend, suspend or terminate our share redemption program at any time. Therefore, it may be difficult for you to sell your shares promptly or at all. You may not be able to sell your shares in the event of an emergency, and, if you are able to sell your shares, you may have to sell them at a substantial discount from the estimated per share value. It is also likely that your shares would not be accepted as the primary collateral for a loan.The estimated per share value of our common stock determined pursuant to our valuation policy is subject to certain limitations and qualifications and may not reflect the amount you would obtain if you tried to sell your shares or if we liquidated our assets.Effective as of March 1, 2013, our board of directors established an estimated per share value of our common stock equal to $10.03 per share. For information regarding our estimated per share value, see Part II, Item 5, "Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities-Estimated Per Share Value" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As with any valuation methodology, the methodologies used to determine the estimated per share value are based upon a number of estimates and assumptions that may prove later to be inaccurate or incomplete. Further, different market participants using different assumptions and estimates could derive different estimated values or estimated values per share. The estimated per share value determined by our board of directors does not represent the fair value of our assets less liabilities in accordance with GAAP, and such estimated per share value is not a representation, warranty or guarantee that (i) a stockholder would be able to realize the estimated share value if such stockholder attempts to sell his or her shares; (ii) a stockholder would ultimately realize distributions per share equal to the estimated per share value upon our liquidation or sale; (iii) shares of our common stock would trade at the estimated per share value on a national securities exchange; (iv) a third party would offer the estimated per share value in an arm's-length transaction to purchase all or substantially all of our shares of common stock; or (v) the methodologies used to estimate the per share value would be acceptable to FINRA. In addition, we can make no claim as to whether the estimated value will or will not satisfy the applicable annual valuation requirements under ERISA and the Code with respect to employee benefit plans subject to the ERISA and other retirement plans or accounts subject to Section 4975 of the Code that are investing in our shares.The estimated value of our shares was calculated as of specific date. The estimated value of our shares is expected to fluctuate over time in response to, including but not limited to, changes in multifamily capitalization rates, rental and growth rates, progress and market conditions related to developments, financing interest rates, returns on competing investments, changes in administrative expenses and other costs affecting working capital, amounts of distributions on our common stock, redemptions of our common stock, changes in the amount of common shares outstanding, the proceeds obtained for any common stock transactions and local and national economic factors. Further, as we are actively investing, including initiating and completing our development projects, the composition of our portfolio and the related multifamily fundamentals could change over time. As a result, stockholders should not rely on the estimated per share value as being an accurate measure of the then current value of our shares of common stock in making an investment decision, including whether to tender shares for redemption under our share redemption program or reinvest distributions by participating in the DRIP.If we were considered to actually or constructively pay a “preferential dividend” to certain of our stockholders, our status as a REIT could be adversely affected. In order to qualify as a REIT, we must distribute annually to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain. In order for distributions to be counted as satisfying the annual distribution requirements for REITs, and to provide us with a REIT-level tax deduction, the distributions must not be “preferential dividends.” A dividend is generally not a preferential dividend if the distribution is pro rata among all outstanding shares of stock within a particular class, and in accordance with the preferences among different classes of stock as set forth in our organizational documents. Currently, there is uncertainty as to the IRS’s position regarding whether certain arrangements that REITs have with their stockholders could give rise to the inadvertent payment of a 25Table of Contentspreferential dividend (e.g., the pricing methodology for stock purchased under a distribution reinvestment plan inadvertently causing a greater than 5% discount on the price of such stock purchased). If the IRS were to take a position that the estimated per share value does not reflect the fair market per share value, it is possible that we may be treated as offering our stock under our distribution reinvestment plan at a discount greater than 5% of its fair market value resulting in the payment of a preferential dividend. There is no de minimis exception with respect to preferential dividends. Therefore, if the IRS were to take the position that we inadvertently paid a preferential dividend, we may be deemed either to (a) have distributed less than 100% of our REIT taxable income and be subject to tax on the undistributed portion, or (b) have distributed less than 90% of our REIT taxable income and our status as a REIT could be terminated for the year in which such determination is made if we were unable to cure such failure. We can provide no assurance that we will not be treated as inadvertently paying preferential dividends. You may not be able to sell your shares to us under the share redemption program.Our board of directors may amend, suspend or terminate our share redemption program at any time. It was recently suspended effective with redemptions being sought in the second quarter of 2012 and was modified and reinstated effective with redemptions being sought in the second quarter of 2013. Our board of directors may reject any request for redemption of shares. Further, there are many limitations on your ability to sell your shares pursuant to the share redemption program. Any stockholder requesting repurchase of their shares pursuant to our share redemption program will be required to certify to us that such stockholder either (1) acquired the shares requested to be repurchased directly from us or (2) acquired the shares from the original investor by way of a bona fide gift not for value to, or for the benefit of, a member of the stockholder's immediate or extended family, or through a transfer to a custodian, trustee or other fiduciary for the account of the stockholder or his or her immediate or extended family in connection with an estate planning transaction, including by bequest or inheritance upon death or operation of law.In addition, our share redemption program contains other restrictions and limitations. We cannot guarantee that we will accommodate all redemption requests made in any particular redemption period. A quarterly funding limit has been established of $7 million per quarter (which our board of directors may increase or decrease from time to time). As a result of this limit, the recent suspension of the program, the modifications to the program and the new estimated share value, there is significant uncertainty as to the number of redemption requests that we will receive and whether we have sufficient capacity to accept all submissions under our funding limit. If we do not redeem all shares presented for redemption during any period in which we are redeeming shares, then all shares will generally be redeemed on a pro rata basis during the relevant period. With respect to any pro rata treatment, redemptions sought upon a stockholder's death, qualifying disability or confinement to a long-term care facility will be considered first, as a group, with any remaining available funds allocated pro rata among requests for ordinary redemptions. Generally, no outstanding requests for ordinary redemptions will be satisfied until all outstanding requests for redemptions sought upon a stockholder's death, qualifying disability or confinement to a long-term care facility are satisfied in full. You must hold your shares for at least one year prior to seeking redemption under the share redemption program, except that our board of directors will waive this one-year holding requirement with respect to redemptions sought upon a stockholder's death, qualifying disability or confinement to a long-term care facility. Our board of directors may also waive this one-year holding requirement for other exigent circumstances affecting a stockholder such as bankruptcy or a mandatory distribution requirement under a stockholder's IRA, or with respect to shares purchased through our distribution reinvestment plan. We will not redeem, during any twelve-month period, more than 5% of the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the twelve-month period immediately prior to the date of redemption.In addition, while we have sufficient cash reserves as of December 31, 2013, in future periods we may not have sufficient funds to redeem shares. Historically, certain other Behringer sponsored real estate programs have limited redemptions in order to conserve capital.If you are able to resell your shares to us pursuant to our share redemption program, you may receive less than the current estimated share value pursuant to our valuation policy.Except for redemptions sought upon a stockholder's death, qualifying disability or confinement to a long-term care facility, the purchase price per share redeemed under our share redemption program will equal the lesser of (i) 85% of the current estimated share value pursuant to our valuation policy and (ii) the average price per share the original purchaser or purchasers of shares paid to us for all of his or her shares (as adjusted for any stock dividends, combinations, splits, recapitalizations and the like with respect to our common stock) (the "Original Share Price") less the aggregate of any special distributions so designated by our board of directors, distributed to stockholders prior to the redemption date and declared from the date of first issue of such redeemed shares (the "Special Distributions"). For redemptions sought upon a stockholder's death, qualifying disability or confinement to a long-term care facility, the purchase price per share redeemed under our share redemption program will equal the lesser of: (i) the current estimated share value pursuant to our valuation policy and (ii) the Original Share Price less any Special Distributions. Accordingly, you may receive less than the current estimated share value pursuant to our valuation policy by selling your shares back to us.26Table of ContentsWe may not successfully implement our exit strategy, in which case you may have to hold your investment for an indefinite period.Depending upon then-prevailing market conditions, we intend to begin to consider the process of liquidating and distributing cash or listing our shares on a national securities exchange within four to six years after the termination of our Initial Public Offering (which terminated on September 2, 2011). If we have not begun the process to list our shares for trading on a national securities exchange or to liquidate at any time after the sixth anniversary of the termination of our Initial Public Offering, unless such date is extended by our board of directors including a majority of our independent directors, we will furnish a proxy statement to stockholders to vote on a proposal for our orderly liquidation upon the written request of stockholders owning 10% or more of our outstanding common stock. The liquidation proposal would include information regarding appraisals of our portfolio. By proxy, stockholders holding a majority of our shares could vote to approve our liquidation. If our stockholders did not approve the liquidation proposal, we would obtain new appraisals and resubmit the proposal by proxy statement to our stockholders up to once every two years upon the written request of stockholders owning 10% or more of our outstanding common stock.Market conditions and other factors could cause us to delay the listing of our shares on a national securities exchange or to delay the commencement of our liquidation beyond six years from the termination of our Initial Public Offering. If so, our board of directors and our independent directors may conclude that it is not in our best interest for us to furnish a proxy statement to stockholders for the purpose of voting on a proposal for our orderly liquidation. Our charter permits our board of directors, with the concurrence of a majority of our independent directors, to defer the furnishing of such a proxy indefinitely. Therefore, if we are not successful in implementing our exit strategy, your shares will continue to be illiquid and you may, for an indefinite period of time, be unable to convert your investment into cash easily and could suffer losses on your investment.Your interest in us will be diluted if we issue additional shares, which could reduce the overall value of your investment.Our stockholders do not have preemptive rights to any shares issued by us in the future. Our charter currently has authorized 1,000,000,000 shares of capital stock, of which 875,000,000 shares are designated as common stock, 124,999,000 shares are designated as preferred stock and 1,000 shares are designated as convertible stock. Subject to any limitations set forth under Maryland law, our board of directors may amend our charter to increase the number of authorized shares of capital stock, or increase or decrease the number of shares of any class or series of stock designated, and may classify or reclassify any unissued shares without the necessity of obtaining stockholder approval. Shares will be issued in the discretion of our board of directors. Investors will likely experience dilution of their equity investment in us in the event that we: (1) sell shares pursuant to our distribution reinvestment plan or in future public or private offerings; (2) sell securities that are convertible into shares of our common stock; (3) issue shares of common stock upon the conversion of our convertible stock; (4) issue restricted stock units or other awards pursuant to our Incentive Award Plan; or (5) issue shares of our common stock to sellers of properties acquired by us in connection with an exchange of limited partnership interests of the Operating Partnership. In addition, the partnership agreement for the Operating Partnership contains provisions that allow, under certain circumstances, other entities to merge into or cause the exchange or conversion of their interest for interests of the Operating Partnership. Because the limited partnership interests of the Operating Partnership may be exchanged for shares of our common stock, any merger, exchange or conversion between the Operating Partnership and another entity ultimately could result in the issuance of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, thereby diluting the percentage ownership interest of other stockholders. Because of these and other reasons described in this "Risk Factors" section, you should not expect to be able to own a significant percentage of our shares.Your investment will be diluted upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock. In connection with the Modification Agreement, we issued to Behringer 10,000 shares of a new Series A non-participating, voting, cumulative, 7.0% convertible preferred stock, par value $0.0001 per share (the “Series A Preferred Stock”) and Behringer surrendered all existing 1,000 convertible shares of non-participating, non-voting stock, par value $0.0001 per share (the “Prior Convertible Stock”), which we immediately canceled. Under limited circumstances, the Series A Preferred Stock may be converted into shares of our common stock, resulting in dilution of our stockholders’ interest in us. The Series A Preferred Stock is potentially more dilutive than the Prior Convertible Stock. Each share of Series A Preferred Stock is entitled to a liquidation preference equal to $10.00 per share before the holders of common stock are paid any liquidation proceeds, and 7.0% cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference and any accrued and unpaid dividends.As determined and limited pursuant to the Articles Supplementary establishing the Series A Preferred Stock, the Series A Preferred Stock will automatically convert into shares of our common stock upon any of the following triggering events: (a) in connection with a listing of our common stock on a national exchange, (b) upon a change of control of the Company or (c) upon election by the holders of a majority of the then outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock on or before July 31, 2018. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a listing occurs prior to December 31, 2016, such listing (and the related triggering event) 27Table of Contentswill be deemed to occur on December 31, 2016 and if a change of control transaction occurs prior to December 31, 2016, such change of control transaction will not result in a change of control triggering event. Upon a triggering event, all of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock will, in total, generally convert into an amount of shares of our common stock equal in value to 15% of the excess of (i) (a) the per share value of our common stock at the time of the applicable triggering event, as determined pursuant to the Articles Supplementary establishing the Series A Preferred Stock and assuming no shares of the Series A Preferred Stock are outstanding, multiplied by the number of shares of common stock outstanding on July 31, 2013, plus (b) the aggregate value of distributions (including distributions constituting a return of capital) paid through such time on the shares of common stock outstanding on July 31, 2013 over (ii) the aggregate issue price of those outstanding shares plus a 7% cumulative, non-compounded, annual return on the issue price of those outstanding shares. In the case of a triggering event based on a listing or change of control only, this amount will be multiplied by another 1.15 to arrive at the conversion value. The performance threshold necessary for the Series A Preferred Stock to have any value is based on the aggregate issue price of our shares of common stock outstanding on July 31, 2013, the aggregate distributions paid on such shares through the triggering event, and the value of our shares of common stock at the time of the applicable triggering event as determined pursuant to the Articles Supplementary. It is not based on the return provided to any individual stockholder. Accordingly, it is not necessary for each of our stockholders to have received any minimum return in order for the Series A Preferred Stock to have any value. In fact, if the Series A Preferred Stock has value, the returns of our stockholders will differ, and some may be less than a 7% cumulative, non-compounded annual return.A limit on the number of shares a person may own may discourage a takeover.Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Unless exempted by our board of directors, no person may own more than 9.8% of our outstanding common or preferred stock, in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive. This restriction may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us, including an extraordinary transaction (such as a merger, tender offer or sale of all or substantially all of our assets) that might otherwise provide our stockholders with the opportunity to receive a control premium for their shares.Our charter permits our board of directors to issue stock with terms that may subordinate the rights of the holders of our current common stock or discourage a third party from acquiring us.Our charter permits our board of directors to issue up to 1,000,000,000 shares of capital stock. Our board of directors, without any action by our stockholders, may: (1) increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares; (2) increase or decrease the number of shares of any class or series we have authority to issue; or (3) classify or reclassify any unissued common stock or preferred stock and establish the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to distributions, qualifications or terms or conditions of redemption of any such stock. Thus, our board of directors could authorize the issuance of such stock with terms and conditions that could subordinate the rights of the holders of our current common stock or have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us, including an extraordinary transaction (such as a merger, tender offer or sale of all or substantially all of our assets) that might provide a premium price for holders of our common stock.Maryland law prohibits certain business combinations, which may make it more difficult for us to be acquired.Under Maryland law, "business combinations" between a Maryland corporation and an "interested stockholder" or an affiliate of an interested stockholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. These business combinations include a merger, consolidation, share exchange, or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities. An interested stockholder is defined as:•any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding voting stock of the corporation; or•an affiliate or associate of the corporation who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding voting stock of the corporation.A person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if our board of directors approved in advance the transaction by which the person otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. However, in approving a transaction, our board of directors may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by the board.After the expiration of the five-year period described above, any business combination between the Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder must generally be recommended by our board of directors of the corporation and approved by the affirmative vote of at least:28Table of Contents•80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of the then outstanding shares of voting stock of the corporation; and•two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting stock of the corporation other than shares held by the interested stockholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the interested stockholder.These super-majority vote requirements do not apply if the corporation's common stockholders receive a minimum price, as defined under Maryland law, for their shares in the form of cash or other consideration in the same form as previously paid by the interested stockholder for its shares. Maryland law also permits various exemptions from these provisions, including business combinations that are exempted by our board of directors before the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. The business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer.Maryland law also limits the ability of a third party to buy a large stake in us and exercise voting power in electing directors.Maryland law provides a second anti-takeover statute, the Control Share Acquisition Act, which provides that "control shares" of a Maryland corporation acquired in a "control share acquisition" have no voting rights except to the extent approved by the corporation's disinterested stockholders by a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. Shares of stock owned by interested stockholders, that is, by the acquirer, by officers or by directors who are employees of the corporation, are excluded from the vote on whether to accord voting rights to the control shares. "Control shares" are voting shares of stock that would entitle the acquirer to exercise voting power in electing directors within specified ranges of voting power. Control shares do not include shares the acquiring person is then entitled to vote as a result of having previously obtained stockholder approval. A "control share acquisition" means the acquisition of control shares. The Control Share Acquisition Act does not apply (1) to shares acquired in a merger, consolidation or share exchange if the corporation is a party to the transaction or (2) to acquisitions approved or exempted by a corporation's charter or bylaws. Our bylaws contain a provision exempting from the Control Share Acquisition Act any and all acquisitions by any person of shares of our stock. We can offer no assurance that this provision will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future. This statute could have the effect of discouraging offers from third parties to acquire us and increasing the difficulty of successfully completing this type of offer by anyone other than our affiliates or any of their affiliates.Our charter includes an anti-takeover provision that may discourage a stockholder from launching a tender offer for our shares.Our charter provides that any tender offer made by a stockholder, including any "mini-tender" offer, must comply with most provisions of Regulation 14D of the Exchange Act. The offering stockholder must provide our company notice of such tender offer at least ten business days before initiating the tender offer. If the offering stockholder does not comply with these requirements, our company will have the right to redeem that stockholder's shares and any shares acquired in such tender offer. In addition, the non-complying stockholder shall be responsible for all of our company's expenses in connection with that stockholder's noncompliance. This provision of our charter may discourage a stockholder from initiating a tender offer for our shares and prevent you from receiving a premium price for your shares in such a transaction.Stockholders have limited control over changes in our policies and operations.Our board of directors determines our major policies, including our policies regarding financing, growth, debt capitalization, REIT qualification and distributions. Our board of directors may amend or revise these and other policies without a vote of the stockholders. Our charter sets forth the stockholder voting rights required to be set forth therein under the Statement of Policy Regarding Real Estate Investment Trusts adopted by the North American Securities Administrators Association on May 7, 2007 (the "NASAA REIT Guidelines"). Under our charter and the Maryland General Corporation Law, our stockholders currently have a right to vote only on the following matters:•the election or removal of directors;•any amendment of our charter, except that our board of directors may amend our charter without stockholder approval to:•change our name;•increase or decrease the aggregate number of our shares;•increase or decrease the number of our shares of any class or series that we have the authority to issue;•classify or reclassify any unissued shares by setting or changing the preferences, conversion or other rights, restrictions, limitations as to distributions, qualifications or terms and conditions of redemption of such shares;•effect reverse stock splits; and•after the listing of our shares of common stock on a national securities exchange, opt into any of the provisions of Subtitle 8 of Title 3 of the Maryland General Corporation Law;•a reorganization as provided in our charter;29Table of Contents•our liquidation and dissolution; and•our being a party to any merger, consolidation, sale or other disposition of substantially all of our assets (notwithstanding that Maryland law may not require stockholder approval).All other matters are subject to the discretion of our board of directors.Our board of directors may change our investment policies and objectives generally and at the individual investment level without stockholder approval, which could alter the nature of your investment.Our charter requires that our independent directors review our investment policies with sufficient frequency and at least annually to determine that the policies we are following are in the best interest of the stockholders. In addition to our investment policies and objectives, we may also change our stated strategy for any investment in an individual property. These policies may change over time. The methods of implementing our investment policies may also vary, as new investment techniques are developed. Our investment policies, the methods for their implementation, and our other objectives, policies and procedures may be altered by our board of directors without the approval of our stockholders. As a result, the nature of your investment could change without your consent.Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to recover claims against our independent directors are limited, which could reduce your and our recovery against them if they negligently cause us to incur losses.Maryland law provides that a director has no liability in that capacity if he performs his duties in good faith, in a manner he reasonably believes to be in our best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. Our charter provides that generally no independent director shall be liable to us or our stockholders for monetary damages and that we will generally indemnify them for losses unless they are grossly negligent or engage in willful misconduct. As a result, you and we may have more limited rights against our independent directors than might otherwise exist under common law, which could reduce your and our recovery from these persons if they act in a negligent manner. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our independent directors (as well as by our other directors, officers, employees of our Advisor and its affiliates and agents) in some cases, which would decrease the cash otherwise available for distributions to you. We will also purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of all of our directors and officers against liability asserted against or incurred by them in their official capacities with us, whether we are required or have the power to indemnify them against the same liability.Risks Related to Conflicts of InterestWe will be subject to conflicts of interest arising out of our relationships with our Advisor and its affiliates, including the material conflicts discussed below.Our Chief Executive Officer faces conflicts of interest related to the positions that he holds with entities affiliated with our Advisor, which could diminish the value of the services he provides to us.Mr. Aisner, who serves as our Chief Executive Officer and a director, is also the Chief Executive Officer of the Advisor and our Property Manager, a director of several other Behringer sponsored programs, and the Chief Executive Officer and President of Behringer Harvard Holdings. As a result, he owes fiduciary duties to these other entities and their investors, which may conflict with the fiduciary duties that he owes to us and our stockholders. Mr. Aisner’s loyalties to these other entities and investors could result in action or inaction that is detrimental to our business, which could harm the implementation of our business strategy and our investment and leasing opportunities. Conflicts with our business and interests are most likely to arise from involvement in decisions and activities related to: (1) the Modification Agreement and our transition to self-management; (2) allocation of new investments, management time and services between us and the other entities; (3) the timing and terms of the investment in or sale of an asset; (4) the types of new investments we make with available cash; (5) the timing and amount of distributions to stockholders; (6) matters relating to the share redemption program, potential liquidity events and other strategic transactions; and (7) compensation, cost reimbursements and incentives to our Advisor, the Property Manager and other Behringer entities. Mr. Aisner is expected to serve as our Chief Executive Officer until the Self-Management Closing, at which point Mr. Alfieri, one of our employees and our current President and Chief Operating Officer, is expected to be appointed as our Chief Executive Officer.Because a number of Behringer sponsored real estate programs use investment strategies that are similar to ours, our Advisor and its personnel will face conflicts of interest relating to the purchase of properties and other real estate-related assets, and such conflicts may not be resolved in our favor.There may be periods during which one or more Behringer sponsored programs are seeking to invest in similar properties and other real estate-related investments. As a result, we may be buying properties and other real estate-related investments at the same time as one or more of the other Behringer sponsored programs managed by officers and employees of our Advisor 30Table of Contentsand/or its affiliates, and these other Behringer sponsored programs may use investment strategies that are similar to ours. Advisor personnel are also the executive officers of other Behringer sponsored REITs and their advisors, the general partners of Behringer sponsored partnerships and/or the advisors or fiduciaries of other Behringer sponsored programs, and these entities are and will be under common control. There is a risk that our Advisor will choose a property that provides lower returns to us than a property purchased by another Behringer sponsored program. In the event these conflicts arise, we cannot assure you that our best interests will be met when officers and employees acting on behalf of our Advisor and on behalf of advisors and managers of other Behringer sponsored programs decide whether to allocate any particular property to us or to another Behringer sponsored program or affiliate of our Advisor, which may have an investment strategy that is similar to ours. In addition, we may acquire properties in geographic areas where other Behringer sponsored programs own properties. Similar conflicts of interest may apply if our Advisor determines to make or purchase mortgage, bridge or mezzanine loans or participations in mortgage, bridge or mezzanine loans on our behalf, because other Behringer sponsored programs may be competing with us for such investments. You will not have the opportunity to evaluate the manner in which these conflicts of interest are resolved.Our Advisor and its affiliates face conflicts of interest caused by their compensation arrangements with us, which could result in actions that are not in the long-term best interests of our stockholders.Our Advisor and our Property Manager and their affiliates, are entitled to substantial fees from us under the terms of the advisory management agreement, property management agreement and the Modification Agreement and related agreements. Among other matters, these compensation arrangements could affect their judgment with respect to:•the continuation, renewal or enforcement of our agreements with our Advisor, our Property Manager, and their affiliates, including the advisory management agreement, the property management agreement and the Modification Agreement;•property acquisitions from third parties, which entitle our Advisor to acquisition fees, debt finance fees and asset management fees;•borrowings to acquire properties, which borrowings will increase the acquisition fees, asset management fees and debt financing fees payable to our Advisor; •determining the compensation paid to the Advisor’s employees for services provided to us, which could be influenced in part by whether the Advisor is reimbursed by us for the related salaries and benefits; and•cooperation with our transition to self-management.The fees our Advisor receives in connection with transactions involving the purchase and management of an asset are based on the cost of the investment, including the amount budgeted for the development, construction, and improvement of each asset, and not based on the quality of the investment or the quality of the services rendered to us. This may influence our Advisor to recommend riskier transactions to us. Furthermore, the Advisor will refund these fees to the extent they are based on budgeted amounts that prove too high once development, construction, or improvements are completed, but the fact that these fees are initially calculated in part based on budgeted amounts could influence our Advisor to overstate the estimated costs of development, construction, or improvements in order to accelerate the cash flow it receives.Our Advisor and its affiliates face conflicts of interests caused by Behringer’s ownership of the Series A Preferred Stock.Behringer owns 10,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock. Under limited circumstances, the Series A Preferred Stock may be converted into shares of our common stock, resulting in dilution of our stockholders’ interest in us. The Advisor and its affiliates may be influenced to recommend certain actions to us if they are more likely to increase the value of the Series A Preferred Stock, such as transactions related to liquidity events, distributions, redemptions and other capital activities. Our Advisor's executive officers and key personnel and the executive officers and key personnel of Behringer-affiliated entities that conduct our day-to-day operations will face competing demands on their time, and this may cause our investment returns to suffer.We rely, in part, upon the executive officers of our Advisor and the executive officers and employees of Behringer-affiliated entities to conduct our day-to-day operations. These persons also conduct the day-to-day operations of other Behringer sponsored programs, including (1) other public programs such as Behringer Harvard Opportunity REIT I, Behringer Harvard Opportunity REIT II, Behringer Harvard Short-Term Opportunity Fund I, and Behringer Harvard Mid-Term Value Enhancement Fund I, and (2) numerous private programs. These persons may have other business interests as well. Because these persons have competing interests on their time and resources, they may have conflicts of interest in allocating their time between our business and these other activities. Should our Advisor inappropriately devote insufficient time or resources to our business, the returns on our investments may suffer.31Table of ContentsOur independent directors are involved in other businesses, investments and activities, therefore they may have conflicts of interest in allocating their time between our business and these other activities.Our independent directors are involved in other businesses, investments and activities. Because these persons have competing interests on their time and resources, they may have conflicts of interest in allocating their time between our business and these other activities. Should our independent directors inappropriately devote insufficient time or resources to our business, then our performance may suffer.Because we rely on affiliates of Behringer Harvard Holdings for the provision of advisory and property management services, if Behringer Harvard Holdings is unable to meet its obligations we may be required to find alternative providers of these services, which could result in a significant and costly disruption of our business.Behringer Harvard Holdings, through one or more of its subsidiaries, owns and controls our Advisor and our Property Manager. The operations of our Advisor and our Property Manager rely substantially on Behringer Harvard Holdings. Behringer Harvard Holdings is largely dependent on fee income from its sponsored real estate programs. Until we complete our transition to a self-managed company, in the event that Behringer Harvard Holdings becomes unable to meet its obligations as they become due, we might be required to find alternative service providers, which could result in a significant disruption of our business and would likely adversely affect the value of your investment in us. General Risks Related to Investments in Real EstateSince 2010, capitalization rates in major U.S. markets for multifamily communities have compressed. If capitalization rates remain compressed or decrease further, it may be more challenging for us to find attractive stabilized, income-producing investment opportunities. On the other hand, economic changes, interest rate increases, inflation or budget deficit issues could increase capital costs or prolong the U.S. economic slowdown which could lead to increases in capitalization rates and a potential decline in the value of our investments. There is evidence that capitalization rates (the rate of return immediately expected upon investment in a real estate asset) in major U.S. markets for stabilized multifamily communities have decreased for the last four years, particularly in the markets that we target. If capitalization rates stabilize or decrease further, we would expect the value of our current investments to hold steady or even increase. However, in such an environment it may be more difficult for us to find attractive stabilized, income-producing investment opportunities. This challenge may be exacerbated if the cost of debt financing increases where our ability to leverage returns through the use of debt financing could be negatively affected.Despite these current trends, there could also be economic and real estate factors which could lead to a renewed increase in capitalization rates. If capitalization rates increase, we would expect declines in the pricing of those assets upon sale. If we were required to sell investments into such a market, we could experience a substantial decrease in the value of our investments and those of our unconsolidated joint ventures. Apart from the potential for such results on any such sale, we may also be required to recognize an impairment charge in earnings in respect of assets we currently own.High prolonged unemployment or U.S. political gridlock could adversely affect multifamily property occupancy and rental rates with high quality multifamily communities suffering even more severely. Although unemployment has generally improved since 2012 and the resolution of the tax portion of the fiscal cliff debate provided some fiscal certainty, there are risks to the U.S. economy related to the global economy and continuing political debates over the U.S. debt limits and government spending levels which could reverse those trends. Stagnant or rising levels of unemployment in our multifamily markets could significantly decrease occupancy and rental rates. In times of increasing unemployment, multifamily occupancy and rental rates have historically been adversely affected by:•rental residents deciding to share rental units and therefore rent fewer units;•potential residents moving back into family homes or delaying leaving family homes;•a reduced demand for higher-rent units, such as those of high quality multifamily communities;•a decline in household formation;•persons enrolled in college delaying leaving college or choosing to proceed to or return to graduate school in the absence of available employment;•the inability or unwillingness of residents to pay rent increases; and•increased collection losses.These factors have contributed to lower rental rates. If employment levels worsen or do not continue to improve, our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make distributions to you may be adversely affected.32Table of ContentsOur operating results will be affected by economic and regulatory changes that have an adverse impact on the real estate market in general, and we cannot assure you that we will be profitable or that we will realize growth in the value of our real estate properties.Our operating results will be subject to risks generally incident to the ownership of real estate, including:•changes in general economic or local conditions;•changes in supply of or demand for similar or competing properties in an area;•changes in interest rates and availability of permanent mortgage funds that may render the sale of a property difficult or unattractive;•the illiquidity of real estate investments generally;•changes in tax, real estate, environmental and zoning laws;•periods of high interest rates and tight money supply;•residents' perceptions of the safety, convenience, and attractiveness of our properties and the neighborhoods where they are located; and•our ability to provide adequate management, maintenance, and insurance.For these and other reasons, we cannot assure you that we will be profitable or that we will realize growth in the value of our real estate properties.Local conditions in the markets in which we own multifamily communities or in which the collateral securing our loans is located may significantly affect occupancy or rental rates at such properties. The risks that may adversely affect conditions in those markets include the following:•layoffs, plant closings, relocations of significant local employers and other events negatively impacting local employment rates and the local economy;•an oversupply of, or a lack of demand for, apartments;•a decline in household formation;•the inability or unwillingness of residents to pay rent increases; and•rent control or rent stabilization laws or other housing laws, which could prevent us from raising rents.For these and other reasons, we cannot assure you that we will be profitable or that we will realize growth in the value of our real estate properties.If we have limited diversification of the geographic locations of our properties, our operating results will be affected by economic changes that have an adverse impact on the real estate market in those areas.In the event that most of our properties are located in a single geographic area, our operating results and ability to make distributions are likely to be impacted by economic changes affecting the real estate markets in that area. Your investment will be subject to greater risk to the extent that we lack a geographically diversified portfolio.Our failure to integrate acquired communities and new personnel could create inefficiencies and reduce the return of your investment.To grow successfully, we must be able to apply our experience in managing real estate to a larger number of properties. In addition, we must be able to integrate new management and operations personnel as our organization grows in size and complexity. Failures in either area will result in inefficiencies that could adversely affect our expected return on our investments and our overall profitability.Short-term multifamily community leases expose us to the effects of declining market rent and could adversely impact our ability to make cash distributions to our stockholders.Substantially all of our multifamily community leases are for a term of one year or less. Because these leases generally permit the residents to leave at the end of the lease term without penalty, our rental revenues may be impacted by declines in market rents more quickly than if our leases were for longer terms.33Table of ContentsAny student-housing properties that we acquire will be subject to an annual leasing cycle, short lease up period, seasonal cash flows, changing university admission and housing policies, and other risks inherent in the student-housing industry, any of which could have a negative impact on your investment.Student-housing properties generally have short-term leases of 12 months, ten months, nine months, or shorter. As a result, we may experience significantly reduced cash flows during the summer months from student-housing properties while most students are on vacation. Furthermore, student-housing properties must be almost entirely re-leased each year, exposing us to increased leasing risk. Student-housing properties are also typically leased during a limited leasing season that usually begins in January and ends in August of each year. We would, therefore, be highly dependent on the effectiveness of our marketing and leasing efforts and personnel during this season.Changes in university admission policies could also adversely affect us. For example, if a university reduces the number of student admissions or requires that a certain class of students, such as freshmen, live in a university-owned facility, the demand for units at our student-housing properties may be reduced and our occupancy rates may decline. We rely on our relationships with colleges and universities for referrals of prospective student residents or for mailing lists of prospective student residents and their parents. Many of these colleges and universities own and operate their own competing on-campus facilities. Any failure to maintain good relationships with these colleges and universities could therefore have a material adverse effect on our ability to market our properties to students and their families.Federal and state laws require colleges to publish and distribute reports of on-campus crime statistics, which may result in negative publicity and media coverage associated with crimes occurring on or in the vicinity of any student-housing properties. Reports of crime or other negative publicity regarding the safety of the students residing on, or near, our student-housing properties may have an adverse effect on our business.We may face significant competition from university-owned student housing and from other residential properties that are in close proximity to any student-housing properties we may acquire, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations.On-campus student housing has certain inherent advantages over off-campus student housing in terms of physical proximity to the university campus and integration of on-campus facilities into the academic community. Colleges and universities can generally avoid real estate taxes and borrow funds at lower interest rates than us.Properties that have significant vacancies could be difficult to sell, which could diminish the return on your investment.A property may incur vacancies either by the continued default of residents under their leases or the expiration of leases. If vacancies continue for a long period of time, we may suffer reduced revenues resulting in decreased distributions to our stockholders. In addition, the resale value of the property could be diminished because the market value of a particular property will depend principally upon the value of the leases of such property.Our investments are dependent on residents for revenue, and lease terminations could reduce our ability to make distributions to stockholders.The success of our real property investments is materially dependent on the financial stability of our residents. Lease payment defaults by residents could cause us to reduce the amount of distributions to stockholders. A default by a significant number of residents on his or her lease payments to us would cause us to lose the revenue associated with such lease and cause us to have to find an alternative source of revenue to meet mortgage payments and prevent a foreclosure if the property is subject to a mortgage. In the event of a lease default, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as landlord and may incur substantial costs in protecting our investment and re-letting our property. If a substantial number of leases are terminated, we cannot assure you that we will be able to lease the property for the rent previously received or sell the property without incurring a loss. Additionally, loans that we make generally will relate to real estate. As a result, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be dependent on the financial stability of our residents leasing the related real estate.We may be unable to renew leases or relet units as leases expire.When our residents decide not to renew their leases upon expiration, we may not be able to relet their units. Even if the residents do renew or we can relet the units, the terms of renewal or reletting may be less favorable than current lease terms. If we are unable to promptly renew the leases or relet the units, or if the rental rates upon renewal or reletting are significantly lower than expected rates, then our results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. Occupancy levels and market rents may be adversely affected by national and local economic and market conditions including, without limitation, new construction and excess inventory of multifamily and single family housing, slow or negative employment growth, availability of low interest mortgages for single family home buyers and the potential for geopolitical instability, all of which are beyond our control. In addition, various state and local municipalities implement rent control legislation which could 34Table of Contentslimit our ability to raise rents. Finally, the federal government's policies, many of which may encourage home ownership, can increase competition and possibly limit our ability to raise rents. Consequently, our cash flow and ability to service debt and make distributions to security holders could be reduced.We may be unable to secure funds for future capital improvements, which could adversely impact our ability to make cash distributions to our stockholders.When residents do not renew their leases or otherwise vacate their space, in order to attract replacement residents, we may be required to expend funds for capital improvements to the vacated apartment units. In addition, we may require substantial funds to renovate an apartment community in order to sell it, upgrade it or reposition it in the market. If we have insufficient capital reserves, we will have to obtain financing from other sources. We intend to establish capital reserves in an amount we, in our discretion, believe is necessary. A lender also may require escrow of capital reserves in excess of any established reserves. If these reserves or any reserves otherwise established are designated for other uses or are insufficient to meet our cash needs, we may have to obtain financing from either affiliated or unaffiliated sources to fund our cash requirements. We cannot assure you that sufficient financing will be available or, if available, will be available on economically feasible terms or on terms acceptable to us. Moreover, certain reserves required by lenders may be designated for specific uses and may not be available for capital purposes such as future capital improvements. Additional borrowing for capital needs and capital improvements will increase our interest expense, and therefore our financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our stockholders may be adversely affected.We may be unable to sell a property or real estate-related asset if or when we decide to do so, which could adversely impact our ability to make cash distributions to our stockholders.We intend to hold the various real properties and real estate-related assets in which we invest until such time as we determine that a sale or other disposition appears to be advantageous to achieve our investment objectives or until it appears that these objectives will not be met. Otherwise, we will have no obligation to sell properties at any particular time, except upon our liquidation. If we have not begun the process to list our shares for trading on a national securities exchange or to liquidate at any time after the sixth anniversary of the termination of our Initial Public Offering (which terminated on September 2, 2011), unless such date is extended by our board of directors including a majority of our independent directors, we will furnish a proxy statement to stockholders to vote on a proposal for our orderly liquidation upon the written request of stockholders owning 10% or more of our outstanding common stock. The liquidation proposal would include information regarding appraisals of our portfolio. By proxy, stockholders holding a majority of our shares could vote to approve our liquidation. If our stockholders did not approve the liquidation proposal, we would obtain new appraisals and resubmit the proposal by proxy statement to our stockholders up to once every two years upon the written request of stockholders owning 10% or more of our outstanding common stock.The real estate market is affected, as discussed above, by many factors, such as general economic conditions, availability of financing, interest rates and other factors, including supply and demand, that are beyond our control. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any asset for the price or on the terms set by us, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property or real estate-related asset. If we are unable to sell a property or real estate-related asset when we determine to do so, it could have a significant adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations.Our co-venture partners, co-tenants or other partners in co-ownership arrangements could take actions that decrease the value of an investment to us and lower your overall return.As of December 31, 2013, 45 of our 55 investments in multifamily communities have been made through Co-Investment Ventures. In the future, we may enter into additional joint ventures, tenant-in-common investments or other co-ownership arrangements for the acquisition, development or improvement of properties as well as the acquisition of real estate-related investments. We may also purchase and develop properties in joint ventures or in partnerships, co-tenancies or other co-ownership arrangements with the sellers of the properties, affiliates of the sellers, developers or other persons. Such investments may involve risks not otherwise present with other forms of real estate investment, including, for example:•the possibility that our partner in an investment might become bankrupt;•the possibility that the investment requires additional capital that we and/or our partner do not have, which lack of capital could affect the performance of the investment and/or dilute our interest if the partner were to contribute our share of the capital;•the possibility that a partner in an investment might breach a loan agreement or other agreement or otherwise, by action or inaction, act in a way detrimental to us or the investment;•that such partner may at any time have economic or business interests or goals that are or that become inconsistent with our business interests or goals;•the possibility that we may incur liabilities as the result of the action taken by our partner;35Table of Contents•that such partner may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives, including our policy with respect to qualifying and maintaining our qualification as a REIT; or•that such partner may exercise buy/sell rights that force us to either acquire the entire investment, or dispose of our share, at a time and price that may not be consistent with our investment objectives.Any of the above might reduce our returns on a joint venture investment. With respect to our 45 multifamily community investments though Co-Investment Ventures, each investment is subject to buy/sell rights in the event of a dispute over a major decision, such as whether to dispose of the underlying property. These partner rights may also affect our ability to raise capital, both debt and equity, or the cost or terms of such capital. Such constraints could affect our overall cost of capital and the returns to stockholders.If we have insufficient capital resources to exercise an option to purchase, or comply with a put right that requires us to purchase, an interest of one of our joint venture partners, our results from operations may be adversely affected.We have, and may have in the future, interests under joint venture agreements that are subject to buy/sell rights. If we are not able to maintain sufficient cash, available borrowing capacity or other capital resources to allow us to elect to purchase, or satisfy an obligation to purchase, an interest of a co-venture partner, we may be forced to forego an investment opportunity, sell our interest when we would otherwise prefer not to sell the interest, and potentially be liable for a breach of an obligation under a joint venture agreement. Any of the foregoing events could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Uninsured losses relating to real property or excessively expensive premiums for insurance coverage may adversely affect your returns.We attempt to ensure that all of our properties are adequately insured to cover casualty losses. The nature of the activities at certain properties we may acquire may expose us and our operators to potential liability for personal injuries and property damage claims. In addition, there are types of losses, generally catastrophic in nature, such as losses due to wars, acts of terrorism, earthquakes, pollution, environmental matters or extreme weather conditions such as hurricanes, floods and snowstorms that are uninsurable or not economically insurable, or may be insured subject to limitations, such as large deductibles or co-payments. Insurance risks associated with potential terrorist acts could sharply increase the premiums we pay for coverage against property and casualty claims. Mortgage lenders may require that specific coverage against terrorism be purchased by property owners as a condition for providing mortgage, bridge or mezzanine loans. It is uncertain whether such insurance policies will continue to be available, or be available at reasonable cost, which could inhibit our ability to finance or refinance our properties. In such instances, we may be required to provide other financial support, either through financial assurances or self-insurance, to cover potential losses. We cannot assure you that we will have adequate coverage for such losses. In the event that any of our properties incurs a casualty loss that is not fully covered by insurance, the value of our assets will be reduced by the amount of any such uninsured loss. In addition, other than any potential capital reserve or other reserves we may establish, we have no source of funding to repair or reconstruct any uninsured damaged property, and we cannot assure you that any such sources of funding will be available to us for such purposes in the future. Also, to the extent we must pay unexpectedly large amounts for insurance, we could suffer reduced earnings that would result in decreased distributions to stockholders.Our operating results may be negatively affected by potential development and construction delays and result in increased costs and risks, which could diminish the return on your investment.We may use some or all of the offering proceeds available to us to develop or redevelop multifamily communities and construct improvements. Expansion, development and redevelopment projects entail the following considerable risks which can result in increased costs of a project or loss of our investment:•We may delay or abandon development and redevelopment opportunities that we have already begun to explore for a number of reasons, including changes in local market rental rates or other operating conditions, unsatisfactory performance by our developer partners or increases in construction or financing costs, and, as a result, we may fail to recover expenses already incurred in exploring these opportunities;•We project construction costs based on market conditions at the time we prepare our budgets, and our projections include future costs that we anticipate but cannot predict with certainty. The construction costs of a development or redevelopment property, due to factors such as cost overruns, design changes and timing delays arising from a lack of availability of materials and labor, weather conditions and other factors outside of our control, as well as financing costs, may exceed original estimates, possibly making the associated investment unprofitable. We cannot assure you that market rents in effect at the time new development or redevelopment communities complete lease up will be sufficient to fully offset the effects of any increased construction or reconstruction costs. Any substantial unanticipated delays or expenses could adversely affect the investment returns from these redevelopment projects and harm our operating results;36Table of Contents•Occupancy rates and rents at a new development or redevelopment community may fail to meet our original expectations for a number of reasons, including changes in market and economic conditions beyond our control and the development by competitors of competing communities;•We may incur liabilities from third parties during the development or redevelopment process, for example, in connection with managing existing improvements on the site prior to tenant terminations and demolition (such as with respect to commercial space) or in connection with providing services to third parties (such as the construction of shared infrastructure or other improvements);•There may be a significant time lag between commencement and completion of the development or redevelopment project. Such a time lag subjects us to greater risks due to fluctuations in the general economy. Failure to complete construction and leasing of a property on schedule may result in increased debt service expenses and construction or renovation costs. Delays in completion of a multifamily community could also give residents the right to terminate preconstruction leases for a newly developed project;•Significant changes in economic conditions could adversely affect prospective tenants and our ability to lease newly developed and redeveloped properties;•We will be subject to risks relating to uncertainties associated with rezoning for development and environmental concerns of governmental entities and/or community groups and our developer's ability to control construction costs or to build in conformity with plans, specifications and timetables. The developer's failure to perform may necessitate legal action by us to rescind the purchase or the construction contract or to compel performance. Performance may also be affected or delayed by conditions beyond the developer's control.•We may incur additional risks when we make periodic progress payments or other advances to such developers prior to completion of construction;•We will be subject to normal lease up risks relating to newly constructed projects; and,•We must also rely upon projections of rental income and expenses and estimates of the fair market value of property upon completion of construction when agreeing upon a price to be paid for the property at the time of acquisition of the property. If our projections are inaccurate, we may pay too much for a property, and the return on our investment could suffer.In addition, we may invest in unimproved real property (which we define as property not acquired for the purpose of producing rental or other operating income, has no development or construction in process at the time of acquisition and no development or construction is planned to commence within one year of the acquisition) or mortgage loans on unimproved property. Returns from development of unimproved properties are also subject to risks and uncertainties associated with rezoning the land for development and environmental concerns of governmental entities and/or community groups. Although our intention is to limit any investment in unimproved property to property we intend to develop, your investment nevertheless is subject to the risks associated with investments in unimproved real property.Unbudgeted capital expenditures or cost overruns could adversely affect business operations and cash flow.If capital expenditures for ongoing or planned development or redevelopment projects exceed expectations or if such additional capital expenditures are to be reimbursed by the general contractor or the developer partner and are not, the additional cost of these expenditures could have an adverse effect on business operations and cash flow. Such additional costs could cause us to be in default under construction financing agreements, which may require us to pay off all or a portion of the financing. In any of these situations, we might not have access to funds on a timely basis to pay the unexpected expenditures or obligations.Further, the Company may guarantee all or a portion of the construction financing, including the obligation to pay interest on the financing until the development project is completed, leased up and permanent financing is obtained or the construction loan is otherwise paid. Unexpected delays in the completion of development or redevelopment projects, unexpected cost increases or budget overruns could also have a significant adverse impact on business operations and cash flow.Any plans that we may have to reposition certain commercial properties through demolition, conversion and redevelopment into new multifamily communities may never commence after we make an investment in the property, be delayed or never reach completion, which could diminish the return on your investment.We may make investments in a wide variety of commercial properties, including, but not limited to, mixed use developments where multifamily is a portion of the mixed use developments. After we make an investment, we or the developer, as applicable, may be unable to commence conversion of these properties and therefore may be required to continue operating the properties under their current purpose, which would include other than multifamily community uses. In addition, we may also be unable to complete the demolition, conversion or redevelopment of these commercial properties and may be forced to hold or sell these properties at a loss. Although we intend to focus on multifamily communities and limit any investment in commercial properties for repositioning into multifamily communities, your investment is subject to the risks associated with these commercial properties and traditional construction risks associated with this repositioning plan.37Table of ContentsWe face competition from third parties, including other multifamily communities, which may limit our profitability and the return on your investment.The residential multifamily community industry is highly competitive. This competition could reduce occupancy levels and revenues at our multifamily communities, which would adversely affect our operations. We compete with many other entities engaged in real estate investment activities, including individuals, corporations, bank and insurance company investment accounts, other REITs, real estate limited partnerships, and other entities engaged in real estate investment activities, many of which have greater resources than we do. Larger real estate programs may enjoy significant competitive advantages that result from, among other things, a lower cost of capital and enhanced operating efficiencies. Our competitors include other multifamily communities both in the immediate vicinity and the broader geographic market where our multifamily communities will be located. Overbuilding of multifamily communities may occur. If so, this will increase the number of multifamily community units available and may decrease occupancy and multifamily unit rental rates. In addition, increases in operating costs due to inflation may not be offset by increased rental rates. We may be required to expend substantial sums to attract new residents.In connection with the recent credit market disruptions and economic slowdown, we may face increased competition from single-family homes and condominiums for rent, which could limit our ability to retain residents, lease apartment units or increase or maintain rents.Any multifamily communities we invest in may compete with numerous housing alternatives in attracting residents, including single-family homes and condominiums available for rent. Such competitive housing alternatives may become more prevalent in a particular area where there have been significant foreclosures, unsold homes or condominium units or where investors are actively renting homes or condominium units. These investors may be well capitalized with sophisticated marketing plans to target renters, particularly multifamily residents. The number of single-family homes and condominiums for rent in a particular area could limit our ability to retain residents, lease apartment units or increase or maintain rents.Failure to succeed in new markets or in new property classes may have adverse consequences on our performance.We may from time to time commence development activity or make acquisitions outside of our existing market areas or the property classes of our primary focus if appropriate opportunities arise. Our historical experience in our existing markets in developing, owning and operating certain classes of property does not ensure that we will be able to operate successfully in new markets, should we choose to enter them, or that we will be successful in new property classes. We may be exposed to a variety of risks if we choose to enter new markets, including an inability to evaluate accurately local market conditions, to obtain land for development or to identify appropriate acquisition opportunities, to hire and retain key personnel, and a lack of familiarity with local governmental and permitting procedures. In addition, we may abandon opportunities to enter new markets or acquire new classes of property that we have begun to explore for any reason and may, as a result, fail to recover expenses already incurred.Acquiring or attempting to acquire multiple properties in a single transaction may adversely affect our operations.From time to time, we may attempt to acquire multiple properties in a single transaction. Portfolio acquisitions are more complex and expensive than single-property acquisitions, and the risk that a multiple-property acquisition does not close may be greater than in a single-property acquisition. Portfolio acquisitions may also result in us owning investments in geographically dispersed markets, placing additional demands on our ability to manage the properties in the portfolio. In addition, a seller may require that a group of properties be purchased as a package even though we may not want to purchase one or more properties in the portfolio. In these situations, if we are unable to identify another person or entity to acquire the unwanted properties, we may be required to operate or attempt to dispose of these properties. To acquire multiple properties in a single transaction we may be required to accumulate a large amount of cash. We would expect the returns that we can earn on such cash to be less than the ultimate returns in real property and therefore, accumulating such cash could reduce the funds available for distributions. Any of the foregoing events may have an adverse effect on our operations.If we set aside insufficient capital reserves for repairs or capital expenditure, we may be required to defer necessary capital improvements.If we do not have enough reserves for capital to supply needed funds for capital improvements throughout the life of the investment in a property and there is insufficient cash available from our operations, we may be required to defer necessary improvements to the property, which may cause the property to suffer from a greater risk of obsolescence or a decline in value, or a greater risk of decreased cash flow as a result of fewer potential residents being attracted to the property. If this happens, we may not be able to maintain projected rental rates for affected properties, and our results of operations may be negatively impacted.38Table of ContentsWe are subject to risks from natural disasters such as earthquakes and severe weather.Natural disasters and severe weather such as earthquakes, tornadoes or hurricanes may result in significant damage to our properties. The extent of our casualty losses and loss in operating income in connection with such events is a function of the severity of the event and the total amount of exposure in the affected area. When we have geographic concentration of exposures, a single catastrophe (such as an earthquake, especially in the San Francisco Bay Area or Southern California) or destructive weather event (such as a hurricane, especially in Florida or the Washington, D.C. Area) affecting a region may have a significant negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2013, we owned or had an ownership interest in properties that are located in the San Francisco Bay Area, Southern California, Florida and the Washington, D.C. Area. As a result, our operating and financial results may vary significantly from one period to the next. Our financial results may be adversely affected by our exposure to losses arising from natural disasters or severe weather.We are also exposed to risks associated with inclement winter weather, particularly in the New England, Mid-Atlantic, Mid-West and Mountain states in which many of our properties are located, including increased costs for the removal of snow and ice as well as from delays in construction. Inclement weather also could increase the need for maintenance and repair of our properties.Climate change may adversely affect our business.To the extent that climate change does occur, we may experience extreme weather and changes in precipitation and temperature, all of which may result in physical damage or a decrease in demand for our properties located in these areas or affected by these conditions. Should the impact of climate change be material in nature or occur for lengthy periods of time, our financial condition or results of operations would be adversely affected.In addition, changes in federal and state legislation and regulation on climate change could result in increased capital expenditures to improve the energy efficiency of our existing properties and could also require us to spend more on our new development properties without a corresponding increase in revenue.The costs of compliance with environmental laws and other governmental laws and regulations may adversely affect our income and the cash available for any distributions.All real property and the operations conducted on real property are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and human health and safety. Many environmental laws restrict the manner in which property may be used or businesses may be operated, and these restrictions may require substantial expenditures. These laws and regulations generally govern wetlands protection, storm water runoff, wastewater discharges, air emissions, the operation and removal of underground and above-ground storage tanks, the use, storage, treatment, transportation and disposal of solid and hazardous materials, and the remediation of contamination associated with disposals. Such environmental laws often provide for sanctions in the event of noncompliance and may be enforced by governmental agencies or, in certain circumstances, by private parties. Some of these laws and regulations may impose joint and several liability on residents, owners or operators for the costs of investigation or remediation of contaminated properties, regardless of fault or the legality of the original disposal. Noncompliance with such laws and regulations may therefore subject us to fines and penalties. We can provide no assurance that we will not incur any material liabilities as a result of noncompliance with these laws and regulations. In addition, the presence of these substances, or the failure to properly remediate these substances, may adversely affect our ability to sell or rent the property or to use the property as collateral for future borrowing.Compliance with new or more stringent laws or regulations or stricter interpretation of existing laws may require material expenditures by us. For example, various federal, regional and state laws and regulations have been implemented or are under consideration to mitigate the effects of climate change caused by greenhouse gas emissions. Among other things, "green" building codes may seek to reduce emissions through the imposition of standards for design, construction materials, water and energy usage and efficiency and waste management. We are not aware of any such existing requirements that we believe will have a material impact on our current operations. However, future requirements could increase the costs of maintaining or improving our existing properties or developing new properties.High costs associated with the investigation or remediation of previously undetected environmentally hazardous conditions may adversely affect our operating results.We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental and public health laws, regulations and ordinances.Under various federal, state and local environmental and public health laws, ordinances and regulations (including those of foreign jurisdictions), we may be required to investigate and remediate the effects of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at our properties (including in some cases natural substances such as methane and radon gas). We may also be held liable under these laws or common law to a governmental entity or to third parties for property, personal 39Table of Contentsinjury or natural resources damages and for investigation and remediation costs incurred as a result of the contamination. These laws often impose liability whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. The costs of investigation, removal or remediation could be substantial and may exceed any insurance coverage that we have for such events. The presence of such substances, or the failure to properly remediate the contamination, may adversely affect our ability to borrow against, sell or rent the affected property. In addition, some environmental laws create or allow a government agency to impose a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs as a result of the contamination.We may face risks relating to asbestos.Certain federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances govern the removal, encapsulation or disturbance of asbestos containing materials, or "ACMs", when such materials are in poor condition or in the event of renovation or demolition of a building. These laws and the common law may impose liability for the release of ACMs and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury associated with exposure to ACMs. ACMs are not suspected to be present in the portfolio buildings based on their age (2003 and later construction); however, because ACMs have not been completely banned in the U.S., it is possible that some ACMs are present. Building materials are maintained in good condition, reducing the risk associated with ACMs. Additionally, we comply with applicable regulations relating to conducting asbestos surveys prior to renovations or demolition. As a result, ACMs do not present a material risk factor for the portfolio.We may face risks relating to chemical vapors and subsurface contamination.We are also aware that environmental agencies and third parties have, in the case of certain properties with on-site or nearby contamination, asserted claims for remediation, property damage or personal injury based on the alleged actual or potential intrusion into buildings of chemical vapors or volatile organic compounds from soils or groundwater underlying or in the vicinity of those buildings or in nearby properties. In addition, some of our retail tenants, such as dry cleaners, may operate businesses which may emit chemical vapors or otherwise use chemicals subject to environmental regulation. We can provide no assurance that we will not incur any material liabilities as a result of vapor intrusion at our properties.We may face risks relating to mold growth.Mold growth may occur when excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Although the occurrence of mold at multifamily and other structures, and the need to remediate such mold, is not a new phenomenon, there has been increased awareness in recent years that certain molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants and exposure to such mold may cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. To help limit mold growth, we educate residents about the importance of adequate ventilation and include a lease requirement that they notify us when they see mold or excessive moisture. We have established procedures for promptly addressing and remediating mold or excessive moisture from our properties when we become aware of its presence regardless of whether we or the resident believe a health risk is present. However, we can provide no assurance that mold or excessive moisture will be detected and remediated in a timely manner. If a significant mold problem arises at one of our properties, we could be required to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold from the affected property and could be exposed to other liabilities that may exceed any applicable insurance coverage, thereby reducing our operating results.Our environmental assessments may not identify all potential environmental liabilities and our remediation actions may be insufficient.Operating properties or land being considered for potential acquisition by us are subjected to at least a Phase I or similar environmental assessment prior to closing, which generally does not involve invasive techniques such as soil or ground water sampling. A Phase II assessment is conducted if recommended in the Phase I report. These assessments, together with subsurface assessments conducted on some properties, have not revealed, and we are not otherwise aware of, any environmental conditions that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, assets, financial condition or results of operations. However, such environmental assessments may not identify all potential environmental liabilities. Moreover, we may in the future discover adverse environmental conditions at our properties, including at properties we acquire in the future, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, assets, financial condition or results of operations. In connection with our ownership, operation and development of communities, from time to time we undertake substantial remedial action in response to the presence of subsurface or other contaminants, including contaminants in soil, groundwater and soil vapor beneath or affecting our buildings. In some cases, an indemnity exists upon which we may be able to rely if environmental liability arises from the contamination, or if remediation costs exceed estimates. We can provide no assurance, however, that all necessary remediation actions have been or will be undertaken at our properties or that we will be indemnified, in full or at all, in the event that environmental liability arises.40Table of ContentsOur liability insurance may be insufficient to cover liabilities.We maintain a liability insurance policy to cover claims arising from certain pollution conditions and cleanup costs (including limited mold coverage). Should an uninsured loss arise against us, we would be required to use our own funds to resolve the issue, including litigation costs. Liabilities resulting from moisture infiltration and the presence of or exposure to mold may have a future material impact on our financial results.The cost of defending against claims of liability such as those described above, of compliance with environmental regulatory requirements, of remediating any contaminated property, or of paying personal injury claims could materially adversely affect our business, assets or results of operations and, consequently, amounts available for distribution to you.Our costs associated with and the risk of failing to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and the Fair Housing Act may affect cash available for distributions.Our properties and the properties underlying our investments are generally expected to be subject to the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended (“Disabilities Act”), or similar laws of foreign jurisdictions. Under the Disabilities Act, all places of public accommodation are required to comply with federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. The Disabilities Act has separate compliance requirements for "public accommodations" and "commercial facilities" that generally require that buildings and services be made accessible and available to people with disabilities. The Disabilities Act's requirements could require removal of access barriers and could result in the imposition of injunctive relief, monetary penalties or, in some cases, an award of damages. We will attempt to acquire properties that comply with the Disabilities Act or similar laws of foreign jurisdictions or place the burden on the seller or other third party to comply with such laws. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to acquire properties or allocate responsibilities in this manner. If we cannot, our funds used for compliance with these laws may affect cash available for distributions and the amount of distributions to you.The multifamily communities in which we invest must comply with Title III of the Disabilities Act, to the extent that such properties are “public accommodations” and/or “commercial facilities” as defined by the Disabilities Act. Compliance with the Disabilities Act could require removal of structural barriers to handicapped access in certain public areas of our multifamily communities where such removal is readily achievable. The Disabilities Act does not, however, consider residential properties, such as multifamily communities to be public accommodations or commercial facilities, except to the extent portions of such facilities, such as the leasing office, are open to the public.We also must comply with the Fair Housing Amendment Act of 1988 (“FHAA”), which requires that multifamily communities first occupied after March 13, 1991 be accessible to handicapped residents and visitors. Compliance with the FHAA could require removal of structural barriers to handicapped access in a community, including the interiors of apartment units covered under the FHAA. Recently there has been heightened scrutiny of multifamily housing communities for compliance with the requirements of the FHAA and Disabilities Act and an increasing number of substantial enforcement actions and private lawsuits have been brought against multifamily communities to ensure compliance with these requirements. Noncompliance with the FHAA and Disabilities Act could result in the imposition of fines, awards of damages to private litigants, payment of attorneys' fees and other costs to plaintiffs, substantial litigation costs and substantial costs of remediation.By owning age-restricted communities, we may incur liability by failing to comply with the FHAA, the Housing for Older Persons Act or certain state regulations, which may affect cash available for distributions.Any age-restricted communities we acquire must comply with the FHAA and the Housing for Older Persons Act (“HOPA”). The FHAA prohibits housing discrimination based upon familial status, which is commonly referred to as age-based discrimination. However, there are exceptions for housing developments that qualify as housing for older persons. The HOPA provides the legal requirements for such housing developments. In order for housing to qualify as housing for older persons, the HOPA requires (1) all residents of such developments to be 62 years of age or older or (2) that at least 80% of the occupied units are occupied by at least one person who is 55 years of age or older and that the housing community publish and adhere to policies and procedures that demonstrate this required intent and comply with rules issued by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development for verification of occupancy. In addition, certain states require that age-restricted housing communities register with the state. Noncompliance with the FHAA, HOPA and state registration requirements could result in the imposition of fines, awards of damages to private litigants, payment of attorneys' fees and other costs to plaintiffs, substantial litigation costs and substantial costs of remediation.41Table of ContentsIf we sell properties by providing financing to purchasers, we will bear the risk of default by the purchaser.If we decide to sell any of our properties, we intend to use commercially reasonable efforts to sell them for cash or in exchange for other property. However, in some instances we may sell our properties by providing financing to purchasers. If we provide financing to purchasers, we will bear the risk of default by the purchaser and will be subject to remedies provided by law, which could negatively impact distributions to our stockholders. There are no limitations or restrictions on our ability to take purchase money obligations. We may, therefore, take a purchase money obligation secured by a mortgage as partial payment for the purchase price of a property. The terms of payment to us generally will be affected by custom in the area where the property being sold is located and the then-prevailing economic conditions. If we receive promissory notes or other property in lieu of cash from property sales, the distribution of the proceeds of sales to our stockholders, or their reinvestment in other assets, will be delayed until the promissory notes or other property are actually paid, sold or refinanced or we have otherwise disposed of such promissory notes or other property. In some cases, we may receive initial down payments in cash and other property in the year of sale in an amount less than the selling price and subsequent payments will be spread over a number of years. If any purchaser defaults under a financing arrangement with us, it could negatively impact our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.We may be contractually obligated to purchase property even if we are unable to secure financing for the acquisition.We may finance a portion of the purchase price for any property that we acquire. However, to ensure that our offers are as competitive as possible, we generally will not enter into contracts to purchase property that include financing contingencies. Thus, we may be contractually obligated to purchase a property even if we are unable to secure financing for the acquisition. In this event, we may choose to close on the property by using cash on hand, which would result in less cash available for our operations and distributions to stockholders. Alternatively, we may choose not to close on the acquisition of the property and default on the purchase contract. If we default on any purchase contract, we could lose our earnest money and become subject to liquidated or other contractual damages and remedies. These consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions to our stockholders.Difficulty of selling multifamily communities could limit flexibility. Federal tax laws may (subject to a statutory "safe harbor") limit our ability to earn a gain on the sale of a community (unless we own it through a subsidiary which will incur a taxable gain upon sale) if we are found to have held, acquired or developed the community primarily with the intent to resell the community or otherwise hold the asset as a "dealer," and this limitation may affect our ability to sell communities without adversely affecting returns to our stockholders. In addition, real estate in our markets can at times be difficult to sell quickly at prices we find acceptable. These potential difficulties in selling real estate in our markets may limit our ability to change or reduce the communities in our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions.Risks Associated with Debt FinancingWe will incur mortgage indebtedness and other borrowings, which will increase our business risks.We and the entities in which we invest have utilized debt financing secured by real property investments to finance acquisitions. We anticipate that we will acquire additional properties and other real estate-related assets by using existing financing, if available, or borrowing new funds. In order to satisfy the requirement that we distribute to stockholders at least 90% of our annual REIT taxable income, or otherwise as is necessary or advisable to assure that we maintain our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes and/or avoid federal income tax, we may also borrow additional funds for payment of distributions to stockholders.There is no limitation on the amount we may invest in any single property or other asset or on the amount we can borrow for the purchase of any individual property or other investment. Under our charter, the maximum amount of our indebtedness shall not exceed 300% of our "net assets" (as defined by our charter) as of the date of any borrowing; however, we may exceed that limit if approved by a majority of our independent directors.In addition to our charter limitation, our board of directors has adopted a policy to generally limit our aggregate borrowings to approximately 75% of the aggregate value of our assets unless substantial justification exists that borrowing a greater amount is in our best interests (for purposes of this policy limitation and the target leverage ratio discussed below, the value of our assets is based on methodologies and policies determined by our board of directors that may include, but do not require, independent appraisals). Our policy limitation, however, does not apply to individual real estate assets. As a result, we expect to borrow more than 75% of the value of any particular asset to the extent our board of directors determines that borrowing such amount is prudent. Such debt may be at higher leverage than REITs with similar investment objectives or criteria. High debt levels would cause us to incur higher interest charges, would result in higher debt service payments, and could be accompanied by restrictive covenants. These factors could limit the amount of cash we have available to distribute and 42Table of Contentscould result in a decline in the value of your investment. We will seek a long-term leverage ratio of approximately 50% to 60% upon stabilization of our portfolio.We do not intend to incur mortgage debt on a particular real property unless we believe the property's projected cash flow is sufficient to service the mortgage debt. However, if there is a shortfall in cash flow, then the amount available for distributions to stockholders may be affected. In addition, incurring mortgage debt increases the risk of loss because (1) loss in investment value is generally borne entirely by the borrower until such time as the investment value declines below the principal balance of the associated debt and (2) defaults on indebtedness secured by a property may result in foreclosure actions initiated by lenders and our loss of the property securing the loan that is in default. For tax purposes, a foreclosure of any of our properties would be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage. If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the property, we would recognize taxable income on foreclosure, but would not receive any cash proceeds from the foreclosure. We may give full or partial guarantees to lenders of mortgage debt to the entities that own our properties. When we give a guaranty on behalf of an entity that owns one of our properties, we will be responsible to our lender for satisfaction of the debt if it is not paid by such entity. If any mortgages contain cross-collateralization or cross-default provisions, there is a risk that more than one real property may be affected by a default. If any of our properties are foreclosed upon due to a default, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders will be adversely affected. In addition, since we intend to begin to consider the process of liquidating and distributing cash or listing our shares on a national securities exchange within four to six years after the termination of our Initial Public Offering, our approach to investing in properties utilizing leverage in order to accomplish our investment objectives over this period of time may present more risks to our stockholders than comparable real estate programs that have a longer intended duration and that do not utilize borrowing to the same degree.If mortgage debt is unavailable at reasonable rates, we may not be able to finance the multifamily communities, which could reduce the number of properties we can acquire and the amount of cash distributions we can make.When we place mortgage debt on multifamily communities, we run the risk of being unable to refinance the properties when the loans come due, or of being unable to refinance on favorable terms. If interest rates are higher when the properties are refinanced, we may not be able to finance the properties at reasonable rates and our income could be reduced. If this occurs, it would reduce cash available for distribution to our stockholders, and it may prevent us from borrowing more money.We may obtain and/or guaranty construction loans to finance multifamily developments.We and our joint venture partners, including the developers, may obtain construction loans to finance the construction of multifamily developments. The construction loan lender may require that the developer of the project provide a guaranty that the project will be completed. The construction loan lender may also require that we provide a similar completion guaranty or a full recourse payment guaranty. If the developer fails to complete the project, if the project is delayed or if the completed project fails to generate the expected cash flow, we may be liable under a loan guaranty. If we choose not to complete an unfinished project, it may be liquidated based on the "as-is" value as opposed to a valuation based on the ability to complete the project. The occurrence of such events may have a negative impact on our results of operations and our ability to pay distributions.Our financial condition could be adversely affected by financial covenants under our credit facility.Our $150.0 million credit facility agreement contains certain financial and operating covenants, including, among other things, leverage ratios, certain coverage ratios, as well as limitations on our ability to incur secured indebtedness. The credit facility agreement also contains customary default provisions including the failure to timely pay debt service issued thereunder and the failure to comply with our financial and operating covenants and cross-default provision with other debt. These covenants could limit our ability to obtain additional funds needed to address liquidity needs or pursue growth opportunities or transactions that would provide substantial return to our stockholders. In addition, a breach of these covenants could cause a default and accelerate payment of advances under the credit facility agreement, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.Violating the covenants contained in our credit facility agreement would likely result in us incurring higher finance costs and fees and/or an acceleration of the maturity date of advances under the credit facility agreement all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.Lenders may require us to enter into restrictive covenants relating to our operations, which could limit our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.In connection with obtaining financing, a lender could impose restrictions on us that affect our ability to incur additional debt and our distribution and operating policies. In general, we expect our loan agreements to restrict our ability to encumber or otherwise transfer our interest in the respective property without the prior consent of the lender. Loan documents we enter into 43Table of Contentsmay contain other negative covenants that may limit our ability to further mortgage the property, discontinue insurance coverage or impose other limitations. Any such restriction or limitation may have an adverse effect on our operations and our ability to make distributions to you.Our ability to obtain financing on reasonable terms could be impacted by negative capital market conditions.Commercial real estate debt markets have experienced volatility and uncertainty as a result of certain related factors, including the tightening of underwriting standards by lenders and credit rating agencies, macro-economic issues related to fiscal, tax and regulatory policies and global financial issues arising from the European debt crisis and recessionary implications. Should these conditions increase our overall cost of borrowings, either by increases in the index rates or by increases in lender spreads, we will need to factor such increases into the economics of our acquisitions, developments and property contributions. Investment returns on our assets and our ability to make acquisitions could be adversely affected by our inability to secure financing on reasonable terms, if at all.Interest-only indebtedness may increase our risk of default and ultimately may reduce our funds available for distribution to our stockholders.We may finance our property acquisitions using interest-only mortgage indebtedness. During the interest-only period, the amount of each scheduled payment will be less than that of a traditional amortizing mortgage loan. The principal balance of the mortgage loan will not be reduced (except in the case of prepayments) because there are no scheduled monthly payments of principal during this period. After the interest-only period, we will be required either to make scheduled payments of amortized principal and interest or to make a lump-sum or "balloon" payment at maturity. These required principal or balloon payments will increase the amount of our scheduled payments and may increase our risk of default under the related mortgage loan. If the mortgage loan has an adjustable interest rate, the amount of our scheduled payments also may increase at a time of rising interest rates. Increased payments and substantial principal or balloon maturity payments will reduce the funds available for distribution to our stockholders because cash otherwise available for distribution will be required to pay principal and interest associated with these mortgage loans.Increases in interest rates could increase the amount of our debt payments and adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.We may incur indebtedness that bears interest at a variable rate. In addition, from time to time we may pay mortgage loans or finance and refinance our properties in a rising interest rate environment. Accordingly, increases in interest rates could increase our interest costs, which could have an adverse effect on our cash flow from operating activities and our ability to make distributions to you. In addition, if rising interest rates cause us to need additional capital to repay indebtedness in accordance with its terms or otherwise, we may need to liquidate one or more of our investments at times that may not permit realization of the maximum return on these investments. Prolonged interest rate increases could also negatively impact our ability to make investments with positive economic returns.If we enter into financing arrangements involving balloon payment obligations, it may adversely affect our ability to make distributions.Some of our financing arrangements may require us to make a lump-sum or "balloon" payment at maturity. Our ability to make a balloon payment at maturity is uncertain and may depend upon our ability to obtain additional financing or our ability to sell the property. At the time the balloon payment is due, we may or may not be able to refinance the balloon payment on terms as favorable as the original loan or sell the property at a price sufficient to make the balloon payment. The effect of a refinancing or sale could affect the rate of return to stockholders and the projected time of disposition of our assets. In addition, payments of principal and interest made to service our debts may leave us with insufficient cash to pay the distributions that we are required to pay to maintain our qualification as a REIT and/or avoid federal income tax. Any of these results would have a significant, negative impact on your investment.Risks Related to Investments in Real Estate-Related AssetsWe may invest in real estate-related assets or hold a noncontrolling interest in an asset, which will be subject to the risks typically associated with real estate.We have invested and may continue to invest in real estate-related loans and other real estate-related assets. In addition, we may hold a noncontrolling interest in a real estate asset, such as a minority interest or preferred equity. Each of these investments will be subject to the risks typically associated with the ownership of real estate.44Table of ContentsWe have relatively less experience investing in mortgage, bridge, mezzanine or other loans as compared to investing directly in real property, which could adversely affect our return on loan investments.The experience of our employees and our Advisor and its affiliates with respect to investing in mortgage, bridge, mezzanine or other loans relating to multifamily communities is not as extensive as it is with respect to investments directly in real properties. However, we have made and may continue to make such loan investments to the extent we determine that it is advantageous to us due to the state of the real estate market or in order to diversify our investment portfolio. Our less extensive experience with respect to mortgage, bridge, mezzanine or other loans could adversely affect our return on loan investments.The bridge loans in which we may invest involve greater risks of loss than conventional mortgage loans.We may provide or invest in bridge loans secured by first lien mortgages on a multifamily property to borrowers who are typically seeking short-term capital to be used in an acquisition or refinancing of real estate. We may also provide or invest in bridge loans secured by a pledge of the ownership interests of either the entity owning the real property or the entity that owns the interest in the entity owning the real property. The borrower has usually identified an undervalued multifamily asset that has been undermanaged or is located in a recovering market. If the market in which the asset is located fails to recover according to the borrower's projections, or if the borrower fails to improve the quality of the asset's management or the value of the asset, the borrower may not receive a sufficient return on the asset to satisfy the bridge loan, and we may not recover some or all of our investment.In addition, owners usually borrow funds under a conventional mortgage loan to repay a bridge loan. We may therefore be dependent on a borrower's ability to obtain permanent financing to repay our bridge loan, which could depend on market conditions and other factors. Bridge loans are also subject to risks of borrower defaults, bankruptcies, fraud, losses and special hazard losses that are not covered by standard hazard insurance. In the event of any default under bridge loans held by us, we bear the risk of loss of principal and nonpayment of interest and fees to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the mortgage collateral and the principal amount of the bridge loan. To the extent we suffer such losses with respect to our investments in bridge loans, the value of our company and the price of our common stock may be adversely affected.The mezzanine loans in which we invest involve greater risks of loss than senior loans secured by income-producing real properties.We have and may continue to invest in mezzanine loans that take the form of subordinated loans secured by second mortgages on the underlying real property or loans secured by a pledge of the ownership interests of either the entity owning the real property or the entity that owns the interest in the entity owning the real property. These types of investments involve a higher degree of risk than long-term senior mortgage lending secured by income-producing real property because the investment may become unsecured as a result of foreclosure by the senior lender. In the event of a bankruptcy of the entity providing the pledge of its ownership interests as security, we may not have full recourse to the assets of the entity, or the assets of the entity may not be sufficient to satisfy our mezzanine loan. If a borrower defaults on our mezzanine loan or debt senior to our loan, or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, our mezzanine loan will be satisfied only after the senior debt is paid in full. Where debt senior to our loan exists, the presence of intercreditor arrangements may limit our ability to amend our loan documents, assign our loans, accept prepayments, exercise our remedies (through "standstill periods"), and control decisions made in bankruptcy proceedings relating to borrowers. As a result, we may not recover some or all of our investment, which could have a negative impact on our ability to make distributions.The construction loans in which we may invest involve greater risks of loss of investment and reduction of return than conventional mortgage loans.If we decide to invest in construction loans secured by multifamily or other types of underlying properties, the nature of these loans pose a greater risk of loss than traditional mortgages. Since construction loans are made generally for the express purpose of either the original development or redevelopment of a property, the risk of loss is greater than a conventional mortgage because the underlying properties subject to construction loans are generally unable to generate income during the period of the loan. Construction loans may also be subordinate to the first lien mortgages. Any delays in completing the development or redevelopment multifamily project may increase the risk of default or credit risk of the borrower which may increase the risk of loss or risk of a lower than expected return to our portfolio.Our mortgage, bridge, mezzanine or other loans may be impacted by unfavorable real estate market conditions, which could decrease the value of our loan investments.If we make or invest in mortgage, bridge, mezzanine or other loans, we will be at risk of defaults on those loans caused by many conditions beyond our control, including local and other economic conditions affecting real estate values and interest rate levels. We do not know whether the values of the property securing the loans will remain at the levels existing on the dates of 45Table of Contentsorigination of the loans. If the values of the underlying properties drop, our risk will increase and the values of our interests may decrease.Our mortgage, bridge, mezzanine or other loans will be subject to interest rate fluctuations, which could reduce our returns as compared to market interest rates.If we invest in fixed-rate, long-term mortgage, bridge, mezzanine or other loans and interest rates rise, the loans could yield a return lower than then-current market rates. If interest rates decrease, we will be adversely affected to the extent that mortgage, bridge, mezzanine or other loans are prepaid, because we may not be able to make new loans at the previously higher interest rate.Delays in liquidating defaulted mortgage, bridge, mezzanine or other loans could reduce our investment returns.If there are defaults under our loans, we may not be able to repossess and quickly sell the properties securing such loans. The resulting time delay could reduce the value of our investment in the defaulted loans. An action to foreclose on a property securing a loan is regulated by state statutes and rules and is subject to the delays and expenses of any lawsuit brought in connection with the foreclosure if the defendant raises defenses or counterclaims. In the event of default by a mortgagor, these restrictions, among other things, may impede our ability to foreclose on or sell the mortgaged property or to obtain proceeds sufficient to repay all amounts due to us on the loan.Returns on our mortgage, bridge, mezzanine or other loans may be limited by regulations.The mortgage, bridge or mezzanine loans in which we invest, or that we may make, may be subject to regulation by federal, state and local authorities (including those of foreign jurisdictions) and subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions. We may determine not to make mortgage, bridge, mezzanine or other loans in any jurisdiction in which we believe we have not complied in all material respects with applicable requirements. If we decide not to make mortgage, bridge, mezzanine or other loans in several jurisdictions, it could reduce the amount of income we would otherwise receive.Foreclosures create additional ownership risks that could adversely impact our returns on loan investments.If we acquire property by foreclosure following defaults under our mortgage, bridge, mezzanine or other loans, we will have the economic and liability risks as the owner of that property.The liquidation of our assets may be delayed as a result of our investment in mortgage, bridge, mezzanine or other loans, which could delay distributions to our stockholders.The mezzanine and bridge loans we may purchase will be particularly illiquid investments due to their short life, their unsuitability for securitization and the greater difficulty of recoupment in the event of a borrower's default. If our Advisor determines that it is in our best interest to make or invest in mortgage, bridge, mezzanine or other loans, any intended liquidation of us may be delayed beyond the time of the sale of all of our properties until all mortgage, bridge or mezzanine loans expire or are sold, because we may enter into mortgage, bridge, mezzanine or other loans with terms that expire after the date we intend to have sold all of our properties.Investments in real estate-related securities will be subject to specific risks relating to the particular issuer of the securities and may be subject to the general risks of investing in subordinated real estate securities, which may result in losses to us.We may invest in real estate-related securities of both publicly traded and private real estate companies. Our investments in real estate-related securities will involve special risks relating to the particular issuer of the real estate-related securities, including the financial condition and business outlook of the issuer. Issuers of real estate-related equity securities generally invest in real estate or real estate-related assets and are subject to the inherent risks associated with real estate-related investments, which are discussed in this "Risk Factors" section, including risks relating to rising interest rates.Real estate-related securities are often unsecured and also may be subordinated to other obligations of the issuer. As a result, investments in real estate-related securities are subject to risks of: (1) limited liquidity in the secondary trading market in the case of unlisted or thinly traded securities; (2) substantial market price volatility resulting from changes in prevailing interest rates in the case of traded equity securities; (3) subordination to the prior claims of banks and other senior lenders to the issuer; (4) the operation of mandatory sinking fund or call/redemption provisions during periods of declining interest rates that could cause the issuer to reinvest redemption proceeds in lower yielding assets; (5) the possibility that earnings of the issuer may be insufficient to meet its debt service and distribution obligations; and (6) the declining creditworthiness and potential for insolvency of the issuer during periods of rising interest rates and economic slowdown or downturn. These risks may adversely affect the value of outstanding real estate-related securities and the ability of the issuers thereof to repay principal and interest or make distribution payments.46Table of ContentsInvestments in real estate-related preferred equity securities involve a greater risk of loss than traditional debt financing.We may invest in real estate-related preferred equity securities, which may involve a higher degree of risk than traditional debt financing due to a variety of factors, including that such investments are subordinate to traditional loans and are not secured by property underlying the investment. Furthermore, should the issuer default on our investment, we would be able to proceed only against the entity in which we have an interest, and not the property owned by such entity and underlying our investment. As a result, we may not recover some or all of our investment.We may make investments in non-U.S. dollar denominated property and real estate-related securities, which will be subject to currency rates exposure and the uncertainty of foreign laws and markets.We may purchase property or real estate-related securities denominated in foreign currencies. A change in foreign currency exchange rates may have an adverse impact on returns on our non-U.S. dollar denominated investments. Although we may hedge our foreign currency risk subject to the REIT income qualification tests, we may not be able to do so successfully and may incur losses on these investments as a result of exchange rate fluctuations.We expect that a portion of any real estate-related securities investments we make will be illiquid and we may not be able to adjust our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions.Certain of the real estate-related securities that we may purchase in connection with privately negotiated transactions will not be registered under the applicable securities laws, resulting in a prohibition against their transfer, sale, pledge or other disposition except in a transaction that is exempt from the registration requirements of, or is otherwise in accordance with, those laws. As a result, our ability to vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions may be relatively limited. The mezzanine and bridge loans we may purchase will be particularly illiquid investments due to their short life, their unsuitability for securitization and the greater difficulty of recoupment in the event of a borrower's default.Interest rate and related risks may cause the value of our real estate-related securities to be reduced.Interest rate risk is the risk that prevailing market interest rates change relative to the current yield on fixed income securities such as preferred and debt securities, and to a lesser extent dividend paying common stock. Generally, when market interest rates rise, the market value of these securities declines, and vice versa. In addition, when interest rates fall, issuers are more likely to repurchase their existing preferred and debt securities to take advantage of the lower cost of financing. As repurchases occur, principal is returned to the holders of the securities sooner than expected, thereby lowering the effective yield on the investment. On the other hand, when interest rates rise, issuers are more likely to maintain their existing preferred and debt securities. As a result, repurchases decrease, thereby extending the average maturity of the securities. We intend to manage interest rate risk by purchasing preferred and debt securities with maturities and repurchase provisions that are designed to match our investment objectives. If we are unable to manage these risks effectively, our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions to you will be adversely affected.We may acquire real estate-related securities through tender offers, which may require us to spend significant amounts of time and money that otherwise could be allocated to our operations.We may acquire real estate-related securities through tender offers, negotiated or otherwise, in which we solicit a target company's stockholders to purchase their securities. The acquisition of these securities could require us to spend significant amounts of money that otherwise could be allocated to our operations. Additionally, in order to acquire the securities, the employees of our Advisor likely will need to devote a substantial portion of their time to pursuing the tender offer-time that otherwise could be allocated to managing our business. These consequences could adversely affect our operations and reduce the cash available for distribution to our stockholders.We may invest in CMBS that are subject to all of the risks of the underlying mortgage loans and the risks of the securitization process.Commercial mortgage-backed securities ("CMBS") are securities that evidence interests in, or are secured by, a single commercial mortgage loan or a pool of commercial mortgage loans. Accordingly, these securities are subject to all of the risks of the underlying mortgage loans.In a rising interest rate environment, the value of CMBS may be adversely affected when payments on underlying mortgages do not occur as anticipated, resulting in the extension of the security's effective maturity and the related increase in interest rate sensitivity of a longer-term instrument. The value of CMBS may also change due to shifts in the market's perception of issuers and regulatory or tax changes adversely affecting the mortgage securities market as a whole. In addition, CMBS are subject to the credit risk associated with the performance of the underlying mortgage properties. In certain instances, third-party guarantees or other forms of credit support can reduce the credit risk.47Table of ContentsCMBS are also subject to several risks created through the securitization process. Subordinate CMBS are paid interest only to the extent that there are funds available to make payments. To the extent the collateral pool includes delinquent loans, there is a risk that interest payment on subordinate CMBS will not be fully paid. Subordinate CMBS are also subject to greater credit risk than those CMBS that are more highly rated.If we use leverage in connection with any potential investments in CMBS, the risk of loss associated with this type of investment will increase.We may use leverage in connection with our investment in CMBS. Although the use of leverage may enhance returns and increase the number of investments that can be made, it may also substantially increase the risk of loss. There can be no assurance that leveraged financing will be available to us on favorable terms or that, among other factors, the terms of such financing will parallel the maturities of the underlying securities acquired. Therefore, such financing may mature prior to the maturity of the CMBS acquired by us. If alternative financing is not available, we may have to liquidate assets at unfavorable prices to pay off such financing. We may utilize repurchase agreements as a component of our financing strategy. Repurchase agreements economically resemble short-term, variable-rate financing and usually require the maintenance of specific loan-to-collateral value ratios. If the market value of the CMBS subject to a repurchase agreement declines, we may be required to provide additional collateral or make cash payments to maintain the loan to collateral value ratio. If we are unable to provide such collateral or cash repayments, we may lose our economic interest in the underlying CMBS.Federal Income Tax RisksFailure to qualify as a REIT would adversely affect our operations and our ability to make distributions.In order for us to qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy certain requirements set forth in the Code and Treasury Regulations and various factual matters and circumstances that are not entirely within our control. We intend to structure our activities in a manner designed to satisfy all of these requirements. However, if certain of our operations were to be recharacterized by the Internal Revenue Service, such recharacterization could jeopardize our ability to satisfy all of the requirements for qualification as a REIT and may affect our ability to continue to qualify as a REIT. In addition, new legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly change the tax laws with respect to qualifying as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of qualifying.Our qualification as a REIT depends upon our ability to meet, through investments, actual operating results, distributions and satisfaction of specific stockholder rules, the various tests imposed by the Code. We cannot assure you that we will satisfy the REIT requirements in the future.If we fail to qualify as a REIT for any taxable year, we will be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income for that year at corporate rates. In addition, we would generally be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year of losing our REIT status. Losing our REIT status would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to stockholders because of the additional tax liability. In addition, distributions to stockholders would no longer qualify for the distributions-paid deduction, and we would no longer be required to make distributions. If this occurs, we might be required to borrow funds or liquidate some investments in order to pay the applicable tax. Our failure to qualify as a REIT would adversely affect the return on your investment. We have not sought a tax opinion from counsel since September 30, 2011.Qualification as a REIT is subject to the satisfaction of tax requirements and various factual matters and circumstances that are not entirely within our control. New legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of being a REIT. Our failure to qualify as a REIT would adversely affect your return on your investment.Our investment strategy may cause us to incur penalty taxes, lose our REIT status, or own and sell properties through taxable REIT subsidiaries, each of which would diminish the return to our stockholders.It is possible that one or more sales of our properties may be "prohibited transactions" under provisions of the Code. If we are deemed to have engaged in a "prohibited transaction" (i.e., we sell a property held by us primarily for sale in the ordinary course of our trade or business) all income that we derive from such sale would be subject to a 100% penalty tax. The Code sets forth a safe harbor for REITs that wish to sell property without risking the imposition of the 100% penalty tax. A principal requirement of the safe harbor is that the REIT must hold the applicable property for not less than two years prior to its sale.If we desire to sell a property pursuant to a transaction that does not fall within the safe harbor, we may be able to avoid the 100% penalty tax if we acquired the property through a taxable REIT subsidiary ("TRS"), or acquired the property and transferred it to a TRS for a non-tax business purpose prior to the sale (i.e., for a reason other than the avoidance of taxes). However, there may be circumstances that prevent us from using a TRS in a transaction that does not qualify for the safe 48Table of Contentsharbor. Additionally, even if it is possible to effect a property disposition through a TRS, we may decide to forego the use of a TRS in a transaction that does not meet the safe harbor requirements based on our own internal analysis, the opinion of counsel or the opinion of other tax advisers that the disposition should not be subject to the 100% penalty tax. In cases where a property disposition is not effected through a TRS, the Internal Revenue Service could successfully assert that the disposition constitutes a prohibited transaction, in which event all of the net income from the sale of such property will be payable as a tax and none of the proceeds from such sale will be distributable by us to our stockholders or available for investment by us.If we acquire a property that we anticipate will not fall within the safe harbor from the 100% penalty tax upon disposition, then we may acquire such property through a TRS in order to avoid the possibility that the sale of such property will be a prohibited transaction and subject to the 100% penalty tax. If we already own such a property directly or indirectly through an entity other than a TRS, we may contribute the property to a TRS if there is another, non-tax related business purpose for the contribution of such property to the TRS. Following the transfer of the property to a TRS, the TRS will operate the property and may sell such property and distribute the net proceeds from such sale to us, and we may distribute the net proceeds distributed to us by the TRS to our stockholders. Though a sale of the property by a TRS likely would eliminate the danger of the application of the 100% penalty tax, the TRS itself would be subject to a tax at the federal level, and potentially at the state and local levels, on the gain realized by it from the sale of the property as well as on the income earned while the property is operated by the TRS. This tax obligation would diminish the amount of the proceeds from the sale of such property that would be distributable to our stockholders. As a result, the amount available for distribution to our stockholders would be substantially less than if the REIT had not operated and sold such property through the TRS and such transaction was not successfully characterized as a prohibited transaction. The maximum federal corporate income tax rate currently is 35%. Federal, state and local corporate income tax rates may be increased in the future, and any such increase would reduce the amount of the net proceeds available for distribution by us to our stockholders from the sale of property through a TRS after the effective date of any increase in such tax rates.As a REIT, the value of the non-mortgage securities we hold in TRSs may not exceed 25% of the total value of our assets at the end of any calendar quarter. If the Internal Revenue Service were to determine that the value of our interests in all of our TRSs exceeded this limit at the end of any calendar quarter, then we would fail to qualify as a REIT. If we determine it to be in our best interests to own a substantial number of our properties through one or more TRSs, then it is possible that the Internal Revenue Service may conclude that the value of our interests in our TRSs exceeds 25% of the value of our total assets at the end of any calendar quarter and therefore cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT. Additionally, as a REIT, no more than 25% of our gross income with respect to any year may, in general, be from sources other than real estate-related assets. Distributions paid to us from a TRS are typically considered to be non-real estate income. Therefore, we may fail to qualify as a REIT if distributions from all of our TRSs, when aggregated with all other non-real estate income with respect to any one year, are more than 25% of our gross income with respect to such year. We will use all reasonable efforts to structure our activities in a manner intended to satisfy the requirements for our continued qualification as a REIT. Our failure to qualify as a REIT would adversely affect the return on your investment.REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan.We generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, subject to certain adjustments and excluding any net capital gain, in order for federal corporate income tax not to apply to earnings that we distribute. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed REIT taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under federal tax laws. We intend to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the REIT requirements of the Code.Our ownership of interests in TRSs raises certain tax risks. A TRS is a corporation other than a REIT in which a REIT directly or indirectly holds stock, and that has made a joint election with such REIT to be treated as a TRS. A TRS also includes any corporation other than a REIT with respect to which a TRS owns securities possessing more than 35% of the total voting power or value of the outstanding securities of such corporation. Other than some activities relating to lodging and health care facilities, a TRS may generally engage in any business, including the provision of customary or non-customary services to tenants of its parent REIT. A TRS is subject to income tax as a regular C corporation. In addition, a TRS may be prevented from deducting interest on debt funded directly or indirectly by its parent REIT if certain tests regarding the TRS’s debt to equity ratio and interest expense are not satisfied. A REIT’s ownership of securities of TRSs will not be subject to the 10% vote or value tests or 5% asset test. We currently own interests in TRSs and may acquire securities in additional TRSs in the future. Our TRSs may pay dividends. Such dividend income should qualify under the 95%, but not the 75%, gross income test. We will monitor the amount of the dividend and other income from our TRSs and will take actions intended to keep this 49Table of Contentsincome, and any other nonqualifying income, within the limitations of the REIT income tests. While we expect these actions will prevent a violation of the REIT income tests, we cannot guarantee that such actions will in all cases prevent such a violation. We will be required to pay a 100% tax on any “redetermined rents,” “redetermined deductions” or “excess interest.” In general, redetermined rents are rents from real property that are overstated as a result of services furnished to any of our tenants by a TRS of ours. Redetermined deductions and excess interest generally represent amounts that are deducted by a TRS of ours for amounts paid to us that are in excess of the amounts that would have been deducted based on arm’s length negotiations.Certain fees paid to us may affect our REIT status.Income received in the nature of rental subsidies or rent guarantees, in some cases, may not qualify as rental income and could be characterized by the Internal Revenue Service as non-qualifying income for purposes of satisfying the "income tests" required for REIT qualification. In consideration for entering into these agreements, we will be paid fees that could be characterized by the Internal Revenue Service as non-qualifying income for purposes of satisfying the "income tests" required for REIT qualification. If this fee income were, in fact, treated as non-qualifying, and if the aggregate of such fee income and any other non-qualifying income in any taxable year ever exceeded 5% of our gross revenues (as determined by the Code, which is expected to be significantly less than our reported revenue) for such year, we could lose our REIT status for that taxable year and the four taxable years following the year of losing our REIT status. We will use commercially reasonable efforts to structure our activities in a manner intended to satisfy the requirements for our continued qualification as a REIT. Our failure to qualify as a REIT would adversely affect the return on your investment.Equity participation in mortgage, bridge and mezzanine loans may result in taxable income and gains from these properties, which could adversely impact our REIT status.If we participate under a loan in any appreciation of the properties securing the loan or its cash flow and the Internal Revenue Service characterizes this participation as "equity," we might have to recognize income, gains and other items from the property for federal income tax purposes. This could affect our ability to qualify as a REIT.You may have current tax liability on distributions you elect to reinvest in our common stock.If you participate in our distribution reinvestment plan, you will be deemed to have received, and for income tax purposes will be taxed on, the amount reinvested in shares of our common stock to the extent the amount reinvested was not a tax-free return of capital. In addition, you will be treated for tax purposes as having received an additional distribution to the extent the shares are purchased at a discount to fair market value. As a result, unless you are a tax-exempt entity, you may have to use funds from other sources to pay your tax liability on the value of the shares of common stock received.If our Operating Partnership fails to maintain its status as a partnership or other flow-through entity for tax purposes, its income may be subject to taxation, which would reduce the cash available to us for distribution to our stockholders.We intend to maintain the status of the Operating Partnership as a partnership (or other flow-through entity) for federal income tax purposes. However, if the Internal Revenue Service were to successfully challenge the status of the Operating Partnership as an entity taxable as a partnership, the Operating Partnership would be taxable as a corporation. In such event, this would reduce the amount of distributions that the Operating Partnership could make to us. This could also result in our losing REIT status, and becoming subject to a corporate level tax on our income. This would substantially reduce the cash available to us to make distributions and the return on your investment. In addition, if any of the partnerships or limited liability companies through which the Operating Partnership owns its properties, in whole or in part, loses its characterization as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, it would be subject to taxation as a corporation, thereby reducing distributions to the Operating Partnership. Such a recharacterization of an underlying property owner could also threaten our ability to maintain REIT status.In certain circumstances, we may be subject to federal and state taxes, which would reduce our cash available for distribution to our stockholders.Even if we qualify and maintain our status as a REIT, we may become subject to federal and state taxes. For example, if we have net income from a "prohibited transaction," such income will be subject to the 100% penalty tax. We may not be able to make sufficient distributions to avoid excise taxes applicable to REITs. We may also decide to retain income we earn from the sale or other disposition of our assets and pay income tax directly on such income. In that event, our stockholders would be treated as if they earned that income and paid the tax on it directly. We may also be subject to state and local taxes, including potentially the "margin tax" in the State of Texas, on our income or property, either directly or at the level of the operating partnership or at the level of the other companies through which we indirectly own our assets. Any federal or state taxes paid by us will reduce the cash available to us for distribution to our stockholders.50Table of ContentsWe may be disqualified from treatment as a REIT if a joint venture entity elects to qualify as a REIT and is later disqualified from treatment as a REIT.As part of our joint ventures, such as our joint ventures with the PGGM Co-Investment Partner and the MW Co-Investment Partner, we have and we may in the future form subsidiary REITs that will acquire and hold assets. In order to qualify as a REIT, among numerous other requirements, each subsidiary REIT must have at least 100 persons as beneficial owners after the first taxable year for which it makes an election to be taxed as a REIT and satisfy all of the other requirements for REITs under the Code. We may be unable to satisfy these requirements for the subsidiary REITs created in our joint ventures. In the event that a subsidiary REIT is disqualified from treatment as a REIT for whatever reason, we will be disqualified from treatment as a REIT as well absent our ability to comply with certain relief provisions, which are unlikely to be available. If we were disqualified from treatment as a REIT we would lose the ability to deduct from our income distributions that we make to our stockholders, and there would be a negative impact on our operations and our stockholders' investment in us.A subsidiary REIT may become subject to state taxation, negatively affecting its operating results.A number of states tax captive REITs, and such taxes may impact the subsidiary REITs. In addition, certain other states are considering whether to tax captive REITs. If any subsidiary REIT becomes subject to state taxation, that subsidiary REIT's results of operations could be negatively affected.Non-U.S. income or other taxes, and a requirement to withhold any non-U.S. taxes, may apply, and, if so, the amount of net cash from operations payable to you will be reduced.We may acquire real property located outside the United States and may invest in stock or other securities of entities owning real property located outside the United States. As a result, we may be subject to foreign (i.e., non-U.S.) income taxes, stamp taxes, real property conveyance taxes, withholding taxes, and other foreign taxes or similar impositions in connection with our ownership of foreign real property or foreign securities. The country in which the real property is located may impose such taxes regardless of whether we are profitable and in addition to any U.S. income tax or other U.S. taxes imposed on profits from our investments in such real property or securities. If a foreign country imposes income taxes on profits from our investment in foreign real property or foreign securities, you will not be eligible to claim a tax credit on your U.S. federal income tax returns to offset the income taxes paid to the foreign country, and the imposition of any foreign taxes in connection with our ownership and operation of foreign real property or our investment in securities of foreign entities will reduce the amounts distributable to you. Similarly, the imposition of withholding taxes by a foreign country will reduce the amounts distributable to you. We expect the organizational costs associated with non-U.S. investments, including costs to structure the investments so as to minimize the impact of foreign taxes, will be higher than those associated with U.S. investments. Moreover, we may be required to file income tax or other information returns in foreign jurisdictions as a result of our investments made outside of the United States. Any organizational costs and reporting requirements will increase our administrative expenses and reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to you. You are urged to consult with your own tax advisers with respect to the impact of applicable non-U.S. taxes and tax withholding requirements on an investment in our common stock.Our foreign investments will be subject to changes in foreign tax or other laws, as well as to changes in U.S. tax laws, and such changes could negatively impact our returns from any particular investment.We may make investments in real estate located outside of the United States. Such investments will typically be structured to minimize non-U.S. taxes, and generally include the use of holding companies. Our ownership, operation and disposition strategy with respect to non-U.S. investments will take into account foreign tax considerations. For example, it is typically advantageous from a tax perspective in non-U.S. jurisdictions to sell interests in a holding company that owns real estate rather than the real estate itself. Buyers of such entities, however, will often discount their purchase price by any inherent or expected tax in such entity. Additionally, the pool of buyers for interests in such holding companies is typically more limited than buyers of direct interests in real estate, and we may be forced to dispose of real estate directly, thus potentially incurring higher foreign taxes and negatively affecting the return on the investment.We will also capitalize our holding companies with debt and equity to reduce foreign income and withholding taxes as appropriate and with consultation with local counsel in each jurisdiction. Such capitalization structures are complex and potentially subject to challenge by foreign and domestic taxing authorities.We may use certain holding structures for our non-U.S. investments to accommodate the needs of one class of investors which reduce the after-tax returns to other classes of investors. For example, if we interpose an entity treated as a corporation for United States tax purposes in our chain of ownership with respect to any particular investment, U.S. tax-exempt investors will generally benefit as such investment will no longer generate unrelated business taxable income. However, if a corporate 51Table of Contentsentity is interposed in a non-U.S. investment holding structure, this would prevent individual investors from claiming a foreign tax credit for any non-U.S. income taxes incurred by the corporate entity or its subsidiaries.Foreign investments are subject to changes in foreign tax or other laws. Any such law changes may require us to modify or abandon a particular holding structure. Such changes may also lead to higher tax rates on our foreign investments than we anticipated, regardless of structuring modifications. Additionally, U.S. tax laws with respect to foreign investments are subject to change, and such changes could negatively impact our returns from any particular investment.Legislative or regulatory action could adversely affect the returns to our investors.In recent years, numerous legislative, judicial and administrative changes have been made in the provisions of the federal income tax laws applicable to investments similar to an investment in shares of our common stock. Additional changes to the tax laws are likely to continue to occur, and we cannot assure you that any such changes will not adversely affect the taxation of a stockholder. Any such changes could have an adverse effect on an investment in our shares or on the market value or the resale potential of our assets. You are urged to consult with your own tax adviser with respect to the impact of recent legislation on your investment in our shares and the status of legislative, regulatory or administrative developments and proposals and their potential effect on an investment in our shares. You also should note that our counsel's tax opinion was based upon existing law and Treasury Regulations, applicable as of the date of its opinion, all of which are subject to change, either prospectively or retroactively.There is generally a reduced tax rate on dividends paid by corporations to individuals equal to the capital gain rate, which, as of January 1, 2013, is at a maximum tax rate of 20%. REIT distributions generally do not qualify for this reduced rate. The maximum corporate tax rate for dividends received by corporations is 35%. As a REIT, we generally would not be subject to federal or state corporate income taxes on that portion of our ordinary income or capital gain that we distribute currently to our stockholders, and we thus expect to avoid the "double taxation" to which other corporations are typically subject.Although REITs continue to receive substantially better tax treatment than entities taxed as corporations, it is possible that future legislation would result in a REIT having fewer tax advantages, and it could become more advantageous for a company that invests in real estate to elect to be taxed for federal income tax purposes as a corporation. As a result, our charter provides our board of directors with the power, under certain circumstances, to revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT election and cause us to be taxed as a corporation, without the vote of our stockholders. Our board of directors has fiduciary duties to us and our stockholders and could only cause such changes in our tax treatment if it determines in good faith that such changes are in the best interest of our stockholders.U.S. stockholders may be subject to Medicare tax on unearned income.A U.S. holder that is an individual is subject to a 3.8% tax on the lesser of (1) the U.S. holder’s “net investment income” for the relevant taxable year and (2) the excess of the U.S. holder’s modified adjusted gross income for the taxable year over a certain threshold (which in the case of individuals may be between $125,000 and $250,000, depending on the individual’s circumstances). A U.S. holder that is an estate or trust that does not fall into a special class of trusts that is exempt from such tax is subject to the same 3.8% tax on the lesser of its undistributed net investment income and the excess of its adjusted gross income over a certain threshold. A U.S. holder’s net investment income will include, among other things, dividends on and capital gains from the sale or other disposition of shares. Prospective U.S. holders that are individuals, estates or trusts should consult their tax advisors regarding the effect, if any, of this Medicare tax on their ownership and disposition of our common stock. Certain stockholders may be subject to other withholding and reporting requirements under FATCA.Sections 1471 through 1474 of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder (“FATCA”) generally impose a withholding tax of 30% on certain gross amounts of income not effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business paid to certain “foreign financial institutions” and certain other U.S.-owned “non-financial foreign entities,” unless various information reporting requirements are satisfied. Amounts subject to withholding under FATCA generally include gross U.S.-source dividend, paid on or after July, 1, 2014, and gross proceeds from the sale of stock, paid on or after January 1, 2017. To avoid withholding under FATCA, stockholders that are subject to these rules generally will be obligated to comply with certain information reporting and disclosure requirements, including, in the case of any “foreign financial institution,” entering into an agreement with the IRS or registering with the tax authority in its country of tax residence, if that country has entered into and implemented an “intergovernmental agreement” with the United States on FATCA. Stockholders are encouraged to consult their own tax advisers regarding the possible application of FATCA to their investment in our shares.52Table of ContentsRisks Related to Investments by Benefit Plans Subject to ERISA and Certain Tax-Exempt Entities (including IRAs)If you fail to meet the fiduciary and other standards under ERISA or the Code as a result of an investment in our stock, you could be subject to criminal and civil penalties.There are special considerations that apply to employee benefit plans subject to ERISA (such as profit sharing, section 401(k) or pension plans) and other retirement plans or accounts subject to Section 4975 of the Code (such as an IRA) that are investing in our shares. If you are investing the assets of such a plan or account in our common stock, you should satisfy yourself that:•your investment is consistent with your fiduciary obligations and other duties under ERISA and the Code;•your investment is made in accordance with the documents and instruments governing your plan or IRA, including your plan's or account's investment policy;•your investment satisfies the prudence and diversification requirements of Sections 404(a)(1)(B) and 404(a)(1)(C) of ERISA and other applicable provisions of ERISA and the Code;•your investment in our shares, for which no public trading market exists, is consistent with the liquidity needs of the plan or IRA;•your investment will not produce an unacceptable amount of "unrelated business taxable income" for the plan or IRA;•you will be able to comply with the requirements under ERISA and the Code to value the assets of the plan or IRA annually; and•your investment will not constitute a prohibited transaction under Section 406 of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Code.We have adopted a valuation policy in respect of estimating the per share value of our common stock and expect to disclose such estimated value annually. For information regarding our estimated per share value, see Part II, Item 5, "Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities-Market Information" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We can make no assurances that such estimated value will satisfy the applicable annual valuation requirements under ERISA and the Code. The Department of Labor or the Internal Revenue Service may determine that a plan fiduciary or an IRA custodian is required to take further steps to determine the value of our common shares. In the absence of an appropriate determination of value, a plan fiduciary or an IRA custodian may be subject to damages, penalties or other sanctions.Failure to satisfy the fiduciary standards of conduct and other applicable requirements of ERISA and the Code may result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties and could subject the fiduciary to claims for damages or for equitable remedies. In addition, if an investment in our shares constitutes a prohibited transaction under ERISA or the Code, the fiduciary or IRA owner who authorized or directed the investment or a related party may be subject to the imposition of excise taxes with respect to the amount invested. In the case of a prohibited transaction involving an IRA owner, the IRA may be disqualified and all of the assets of the IRA may be deemed distributed and subjected to tax. ERISA plan fiduciaries and IRA owners and custodians should consult with counsel before making an investment in our common shares.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone. 53Table of Contents