D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Company Our products and product candidates may not achieve or maintain widespread market acceptance. Success of our products is highly dependent on the needs and preferences of healthcare practitioners and patients and market acceptance, and we may not achieve or maintain widespread market acceptance of our products or product candidates among healthcare practitioners and patients. We believe that market acceptance of our products will depend on many factors, including: · the perceived advantages of our products over competing products and the availability and success of competing products; · the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts; · the safety and efficacy of our products and the prevalence and severity of adverse side effects, if any; · our product pricing and cost effectiveness; · publicity concerning our products, product candidates or competing products; · whether or not patients routinely use our products, refill prescriptions and purchase additional products; · our ability to respond to changes in healthcare practitioner and patient preferences; and · the continued inclusion of our products in the national and provincial medical insurance catalogs or in the national essential drug list, collectively, the Essential Drug List and Reimbursement List. If our products fail to achieve or maintain market acceptance, or if new products are introduced by others that are more favorably received than our products, are more cost effective or otherwise render our products obsolete, we may experience a decline in the demand for our products. If we are unable to market and sell our products successfully, our business, financial condition, results of operation and future growth would be adversely affected. The penalties imposed on Jiangsu Quanyi could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and damage our reputation. We entered into agreements on May 22, 2009, October 24, 2009 and November 24, 2009 to obtain a controlling stake in Jiangsu Yanshen Biological Technology Stock Co., Ltd., which since 7 Table of Contents March 24, 2011 has been renamed to Jiangsu Quanyi Biological Technology Stock Co., Ltd., or Jiangsu Quanyi. After we entered into the share purchase agreements in October and November 2009 to acquire 15% of the equity interest in Jiangsu Quanyi, but prior to the full completion of the transaction, we discovered quality control problems relating to the production of Jiangsu Quanyi’s human-use rabies vaccine. On December 3, 2009, the PRC State Food and Drug Administration, or SFDA, issued a public notice announcing the initiation of a comprehensive investigation into quality issues regarding human-use rabies vaccine manufactured by two companies including Jiangsu Quanyi, and ordered Jiangsu Quanyi to halt marketing and production of all products including its human-use rabies vaccine. In April 2010, the Changzhou Food and Drug Administration found that the four batches of human-use rabies vaccine, which were manufactured by Jiangsu Quanyi and released into the market between July and October 2008, had an insufficient amount of active compounds. It was found that prior to our acquisition of Jiangsu Quanyi, illegal activities were conducted at Jiangsu Quanyi, whereby inadequate quality control processes were in place, and there was misrepresentation and avoidance of regulatory inspections, which caused substandard vaccines to be released into the market. On April 27, 2010, the SFDA revoked two new medicine certificates held by Jiangsu Quanyi for its rabies vaccine (vero cell) and freeze-dried human rabies vaccine (vero cell). The Good Manufacturing Practice, or GMP, certificate for its manufacture of human-use rabies vaccine has also been revoked, and the GMP certificate for its manufacture of influenza vaccine expired on February 2, 2010. On May 15, 2010, Jiangsu Quanyi received a notification from the Changzhou Food and Drug Administration, which assessed a fine of RMB25.6 million, consisting of penalties and confiscable revenues from past sales of substandard human-use rabies vaccine, against Jiangsu Quanyi. The notification also stated that Jiangsu Quanyi must bear the cost of patient re-vaccinations of approximately RMB23.0 million. In addition, the People’s Court of Tianning District, Changzhou imposed a fine of RMB1.6 million on Jiangsu Quanyi for its past sales of substandard human-use rabies vaccine. On January 24, 2011, the final judgment issued by the Intermediate People’s Court of Changzhou imposed an additional penalty of RMB3.0 million on Jiangsu Quanyi. During the year ended December 31, 2010, RMB10.2 million of the penalty was paid. During the year ended December 31, 2011, RMB10.0 million ($1.6 million) of penalty and RMB13.5 million ($2.1 million) of cost of patient re-vaccinations were paid. As of December 31, 2011, RMB10.0 million ($1.6 million) of penalty and RMB9.5 million ($1.5 million) of cost of patient re-vaccinations remained unpaid. Subsequent to December 31, 2011, RMB10.0 million ($1.6 million) of penalty was paid. While there have been no reported adverse events related to the vaccine batches in question, we cannot assure you that there will not be adverse events related to these vaccine batches in the future. In addition, employees of Jiangsu Quanyi directly involved in the production of substandard human-use rabies vaccine were prohibited from engaging in the production and marketing of pharmaceutical products for a period of ten years. The proceedings, investigations and relevant sentence as described above could disrupt our business, divert management resources, result in adverse publicity regarding Jiangsu Quanyi, us and the products we sell, which would harm our reputation and result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be involved in litigation, arbitration or other legal proceedings from time to time that require extensive management attention and resources and may be expensive, time-consuming and disruptive. We entered into agreements in October and November 2009 to acquire Jiangsu Quanyi through the acquisition of the entire equity interest in ChinaVax, a Cayman Islands company that, as its sole business, held a 15.0% stake in Jiangsu Quanyi for cash consideration. As we discovered quality control problems relating to the production of Jiangsu Quanyi’s human-use rabies vaccine, a portion of the consideration has not been paid as of the date of this annual report. In October 2010, the selling shareholders of ChinaVax filed a claim against us for the amount of consideration we have withheld, or RMB28.4 million, and the interest accrued on the withheld amount at the annual rate of 5.0% from February 4, 2010 to the date when the withheld consideration has been fully paid. As of 8 Table of Contents December 31, 2011, the consideration withheld of RMB28.4 million ($4.5 million) was included in other current liabilities. In March 2012, we reached a settlement agreement with the selling shareholders and former directors of ChinaVax, and we agreed to pay RMB12.8 million ($2.0 million) of the remaining consideration payable of RMB28.4 million ($4.5 million) to the selling shareholders of ChinaVax. The reduction of the consideration payable of RMB 15.6 million ($2.5 million) was recognized as other operating income in the first quarter of 2012. In addition, subsequent to our discovery of the quality control problems relating to the production of Jiangsu Quanyi’s human-use rabies vaccine, we initiated an arbitration proceeding against former shareholders of Jiangsu Quanyi to seek damages for RMB113.9 million for misrepresentation in connection with their sales of equity interests in Jiangsu Quanyi. Furthermore, Jiangsu Quanyi also initiated legal proceedings through its board of supervisors against certain former directors and their affiliates to seek damages. In June 2011, we reached a settlement agreement with the former shareholders and former directors of Jiangsu Quanyi, under which the former shareholders of Jiangsu Quanyi paid us total cash compensation of RMB50.0 million ($7.9 million) in 2011. In August 2011, Shandong Simcere Medgenn Bio-Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (“Shandong Simcere”) filed lawsuits in Beijing against Protgen Ltd. (“Protgen”), a biotech company with operations in Beijing, and its major shareholder, Mr. Yongzhang Luo, claiming ownership of several patents and patent applications relating to a method of prolonging the half-life of recombinant human endostatin and seeking damages. Mr. Luo acted as the vice chairman of the board, general manager, and chief science officer of Shandong Simcere. In December 2011, certain batches of azithromycin granules produced by Nanjing Simcere Dongyuan Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., or Nanjing Simcere, were found to have failed to comply with applicable standards for pharmaceuticals. As a result, our income from selling such batches of azithromycin granules of RMB0.2 million was confiscated and an additional penalty of RMB0.2 million was also imposed on us. Litigation, arbitration, and other legal proceedings can be expensive, lengthy, disruptive to normal business operations and harmful to our reputation and may require extensive management attention and resources, regardless of their merit. Moreover, we cannot predict the results of such proceedings, and an unfavorable outcome of a lawsuit or proceeding could materially and adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, we may also become involved in product liability litigation as the development and commercialization of vaccine and other pharmaceutical products entail an inherent risk of harm to patients. If a product liability claim is brought against us, it may, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, result in damage to our reputation, breach of contract with our customers, decreased demand for our products, costly litigation, product recalls, loss of revenues, and the inability to commercialize new products. Our lack of sufficient liability, disruption or other kind of insurance may exacerbate such risks. Our trademarks, patents and other non-patented intellectual property are valuable assets and if we are unable to protect them from infringement, our business prospects may be harmed. As our own brand of generic products constitutes a large portion of our sales, we consider our trademarks to be valuable assets. Under PRC law, we have the exclusive right to use a trademark for products and services for which such trademark has been registered with the PRC Trademark Office of State Administration for Industry and Commerce. However, our efforts to defend our trademarks may be unsuccessful against competitors or other violating entities and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Our commercial success will also depend in part on our obtaining and maintaining patent and trade secret protection of our technologies, product candidates and products as well as successfully defending our patents against third-party challenges. We will only be able to protect our technologies, product candidates and products from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that valid and enforceable patents or trade secrets cover them. In the event that our issued patents and our applications do not adequately describe, enable or otherwise provide coverage of our 9 Table of Contents technologies, product candidates and products, we would not be able to exclude others from developing or commercializing these technologies, product candidates and products. Furthermore, the degree of future protection of our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. The patent positions of pharmaceutical companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. The patent situation outside of China may be more complex. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in China or other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property. Accordingly, we cannot predict the scope of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents or in third-party patents. For example: · we might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications and issued patents; · we might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; · others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate our technologies without infringing our intellectual property rights; · one or more of our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents; · our issued patents may not provide a basis for commercially viable products, may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be challenged and invalidated by third parties; · we may not develop additional proprietary technologies or product candidates that are patentable; and · the patents of others may prevent us from developing or commercializing our product candidates. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we believe patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, our research partners’ employees, consultants, contractors or scientific and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors or use our trade secrets without our authorization. In addition, confidentiality agreements, if any, executed by the foregoing persons may not be enforceable or provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. If we were to enforce a claim that a third party had illegally obtained and was using our trade secrets, our enforcement efforts would be expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome would be unpredictable. In addition, if our competitors independently develop information that is equivalent to our trade secrets, it will be more difficult for us to enforce our rights and our business could be harmed. If we are not able to obtain and defend our patents or trade secrets, we will not be able to exclude competitors from developing or marketing competing products using the relevant technologies or processes, thereby adversely affecting our competitiveness. The existence of a patent may not necessarily protect us from competition as our patent may be challenged, invalidated or held unenforceable. We may also be found to infringe the patents of others. The existence of a patent may not necessarily protect us from competition, as any patent issued may be challenged, invalidated, or held unenforceable. Competitors may successfully challenge our patents, produce similar products that do not infringe our patents or produce products in 10 Table of Contents countries that do not recognize our patents. The occurrence of any of these events could hurt our competitive position and decrease our revenues from product sales and/or licensing. In addition, even if we own patents, this does not provide assurance that the manufacture, sale or use of our patented products does not infringe the patent rights of another. Because patent applications can take many years to approve and issue, there may be pending applications, known or unknown to us, that may later result in issued patents that our technologies, product candidates or products may infringe. Specifically, under the PRC Patent Law, the term of patent protection starts from the date the patent was filed, instead of the date it was issued as is the case in many jurisdictions. Therefore our priority in any PRC patents may be defeated by third-party patents issued on a later date if the applications for such patents were filed prior to our own, and the technologies underlying such patents are the same or substantially similar to ours. In such case, a third party with an earlier application may force us to pay to license its patented technology, sue us for patent infringement and/or challenge the validity of our patents. If a third party sues us for infringement, the suit will divert substantial management time and resources, regardless of whether we are ultimately successful. Further, we may be liable for monetary damages and/or forced to redesign, if possible, our technology to avoid the infringement. Litigation to protect our intellectual property rights or defend against third-party allegations of infringement may be costly. We may encounter future litigation by third parties based on claims that our products or activities infringe the intellectual property rights of others or that we have misappropriated the trade secrets of others. We may also initiate lawsuits to defend the ownership or inventorship of our inventions. It is difficult, if not impossible, to predict how such disputes would be resolved. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property rights are costly and divert technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. We may not prevail in any of such litigation or proceedings. An adverse determination of any litigation or proceedings against us, resulting in a finding of non-infringement by others or invalidity of our patents, may result in the sale by competitors of generic substitutes of our products. In addition, a determination that we have infringed on the intellectual property rights of another may require us to do one or more of the following: · pay monetary damages to settle the results of such adverse determination, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations; · cease selling, incorporating or using any of our products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property, which would adversely affect our revenues or costs, or both; · obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right, which might be costly or might not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; or · redesign our products to make them non-infringing, which would be costly and time-consuming and may require additional clinical trials, or may not be possible at all. While we currently know of no actual or threatened claim of infringement that would be material to us, there can be no assurance that such a claim will not be asserted. If such a claim is asserted, there can be no assurance that the resolution of the claim would permit us to continue producing the product in question on commercially reasonable terms. In addition, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during intellectual property litigation. Furthermore, there could be public announcements throughout the course of intellectual property litigation or proceedings as to the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments in the litigation. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, there could be a substantial negative effect on the trading price of our ADSs. 11 Table of Contents Most of our products are branded generics that can be manufactured and sold by other pharmaceutical manufacturers in China once the relevant protection or monitoring periods, if any, elapse. Most of our products are branded generic pharmaceuticals and are not protected by patents. As a result, other pharmaceutical companies may sell equivalent products at a lower price, and this might result in a commensurate loss in sales of our branded generic products. Certain of our generic products are subject to a protection or monitoring period. During such period, the SFDA will not accept applications for new medicine certificates for the same product by other pharmaceutical companies or approve the production or import of the same product by other pharmaceutical companies. Once such protection or monitoring periods expire, other manufacturers may obtain relevant production approvals and will be entitled to sell generic pharmaceutical products with similar formulae or production methods in China. The maximum monitoring period currently granted by the SFDA is five years. The maximum protection period granted by the SFDA was eight years prior to April 1999, but was later increased to 12 years. As of March 31, 2012, our product Zaichang was under a monitoring period which is to expire on March 13, 2013 and our product Anxin was under a monitoring period which is to expire on May 3, 2012. Our new product Iremod was under a monitoring period which is to expire on August 14, 2016 and Lowvo was under a monitoring period which is to expire on May 3, 2012. If other pharmaceutical companies sell pharmaceutical products that are similar to our unprotected products or our protected products for which the relevant monitoring period has expired, we may face additional competition and our business and profitability may be adversely affected. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we or our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. Certain of our employees and consultants were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors, or at universities or other research institutions. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees, consultants or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to our management. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key research personnel or their work product could delay or prevent us from commercializing one or more of our product candidates. Our future research and development projects may not be successful. The successful development of pharmaceutical products can be affected by many factors. Products that appear to be promising at their early phases of research and development may fail to be commercialized for various reasons, including the failure to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals. In addition, the research and development cycle for new products for which we may obtain an approval certificate is long. The process of conducting basic research and various stages of tests and trials of a new product before obtaining an approval certificate and commercializing the product may require ten years or longer. Many of our product candidates are in the early stages of pre-clinical studies or clinical trials and we must conduct significant additional clinical trials before we can seek the necessary regulatory approvals to begin commercial production and sales of these products. For certain pharmaceuticals, we are required to conduct Phase IV clinical trials even after such product has obtained the necessary regulatory approvals to begin commercial production and sale, and if we fail to complete such Phase IV clinical trials within a specified period, we may be unable to renew the registration for such products. There is no assurance that our future research and development projects will be successful or completed within the anticipated time frame or budget or that we will receive the necessary approvals from relevant authorities for the production of these newly developed products, or that these newly developed products will achieve commercial success. Even if such products can be 12 Table of Contents successfully commercialized, they may not achieve the level of market acceptance that we expect. In addition, the pharmaceutical industry is characterized by rapid changes in technology, constant enhancement of industrial know-how and frequent emergence of new products. Future technological improvements and continual product developments in the pharmaceutical market may render our existing products obsolete or affect their viability and competitiveness. Therefore, our future success will largely depend on our research and development capability, including our ability to improve our existing products, diversify our product range and develop new and competitively priced products that can meet the requirements of the changing market. Should we fail to respond to these frequent technological advances by improving our existing products or developing new products in a timely manner or these products do not achieve a desirable level of market acceptance, our business and profitability will be materially and adversely affected. We rely on certain domestic and overseas research institutions and universities for the research and development of new products and any failure of our research partners to meet our timing and quality standards or our failure to continue such collaboration or enter into such new arrangements could adversely affect our ability to develop new pharmaceuticals and our overall business prospects. Our business strategy includes collaborating with third parties for research and development of new products. We rely on long-term relationships with a number of domestic and overseas research institutions and universities. These research institutions and universities have collaborated with us in a number of research projects and certain of our products that have obtained approval certificates were developed by us together with our research partners. At present, several research institutions and universities are working with us on various research and development projects. Any failure of our research partners to meet the required quality standards and timetables set in their research agreements with us, or our inability to enter into additional research agreements with these research partners on terms acceptable to us in the future, may have an adverse effect on our ability to develop new products and on our business prospects. In addition, the growth of our business and development of new products may require that we continue to seek collaborations with research institutions, universities and biotechnology companies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into collaborative arrangements with research partners on terms acceptable to us. Our inability to enter into such arrangements or our failure to maintain such arrangements could limit the number of new products that we could develop and ultimately decrease our sources of future revenues. We may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for any of the products resulting from our development efforts and failure to obtain these approvals could materially harm our business. All new medicines must be approved by the SFDA before they can be marketed and sold in China. The SFDA requires successful completion of clinical trials and demonstrated manufacturing capability before it grants approval. Clinical trials are expensive and their results are uncertain. It often takes a number of years before a medicine can be ultimately approved by the SFDA. In addition, the SFDA and other regulatory authorities may apply new standards for safety, manufacturing, packaging, and distribution of future product candidates. Complying with such standards may be time-consuming and expensive and could result in delays in obtaining SFDA approval for our future product candidates, or possibly preclude us from obtaining SFDA approval altogether. Furthermore, our future products may not be effective or may prove to have undesirable or unintended side effects, toxicities or other characteristics that may preclude us from obtaining regulatory approval or prevent or limit commercial use. The SFDA and other regulatory authorities may not approve the products that we develop and even if we do obtain regulatory approvals, such regulatory approvals may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which we may market a product, which may limit the size of the market for such product. 13 Table of Contents Our marketing activities are critical to the success of our products, and if we fail to grow our marketing capabilities or maintain adequate spending on marketing activities, the market share of our products and our brand name and product reputation would be materially adversely affected. Most of our products are branded generic pharmaceuticals and the success and lifespan of our products are dependent on our efforts in the marketing of our products. Our marketing professionals regularly visit hospitals, clinics and pharmacies to explain the therapeutic value of our pharmaceuticals and to keep healthcare professionals up to date as to any developments relating to our pharmaceuticals. We organize in-person product presentations, conferences and seminars for physicians and other healthcare professionals and participate in trade shows to generate market awareness of our existing and new prescription pharmaceuticals. We are also engaged in advertising and educational campaigns through various media channels to educate the public as to our pharmaceuticals. These various marketing activities are critical to the success of our products. However, we cannot assure you that our current and planned spending on marketing activities will be adequate to support our future growth. Any factors adversely affecting our ability to grow our marketing capabilities or our ability to maintain adequate spending on marketing activities will have an adverse effect on the market share of our products and the brand name and reputation of our products, which may result in decreased demand for our products and negatively affect our business and results of operations. We may not be successful in competing with other manufacturers of pharmaceuticals in the tender processes for the purchase of medicines by state-owned and state-controlled hospitals. A substantial portion of our pharmaceutical products we sell to our distributor customers are then sold to hospitals owned and controlled by counties or higher level government authorities in China, and our vaccines are sold to various levels of Centers for Disease Control, or CDCs, which are controlled by various levels of government authorities in China as well as some vaccine distributors. These hospitals must implement collective tender processes for the purchase of medicines listed in the Essential Drug List and Reimbursement List and medicines that are consumed in large volumes and commonly prescribed for clinical uses. CDCs may also implement collective tender processes for the purchase of our vaccines. These hospitals and CDCs will establish a committee consisting of recognized pharmaceutical experts. The committee will assess the bids submitted by the pharmaceutical manufacturers, taking into consideration, among other things, the quality and price of the medicine and the service and reputation of the manufacturers. For the same type of pharmaceutical, the committee usually selects from among two to three different brands. Only pharmaceuticals that have won in the collective tender processes may be purchased by these hospitals and CDCs. The collective tender process for pharmaceuticals with the same chemical composition must be conducted at least annually, and pharmaceuticals that have won in the collective tender processes previously must participate and win in the collective tender processes in the following period before new purchase orders can be issued. If we are unable to win purchase contracts through the collective tender processes in which we decide to participate, we will lose market share to our competitors, and our revenues and profitability will be adversely affected. We may not be able to successfully identify and acquire new products or businesses. In addition to our own research and development efforts, our growth strategy also relies on our acquisitions of new product candidates, products or businesses from third parties. Any future growth through acquisitions will be dependent upon the continued availability of suitable acquisition candidates at favorable prices and upon advantageous terms and conditions. Even if such opportunities are present, we may not be able to successfully identify such acquisition target. Moreover, other companies, many of which may have substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, are competing with us for the right to acquire such product candidates, products or businesses. If an acquisition candidate is identified, the third parties with whom we seek to cooperate may not select us as a potential partner or we may not be able to enter into arrangements on commercially 14 Table of Contents reasonable terms or at all. Furthermore, the negotiation and completion of potential acquisitions could cause significant diversion of management’s time and resources and potential disruption of our ongoing business. Future acquisitions may also expose us to other potential risks which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, including risks associated with: · failure to obtain regulatory approval for any newly acquired product candidates; · the integration of the acquired businesses, operations, services and personnel with our existing business and operations; · the infringement of third parties’ intellectual property rights or intellectual property right challenges as to the acquired pharmaceuticals; · unforeseen or hidden liabilities; · the diversion of resources from our existing businesses and technologies; · our inability to generate sufficient revenues to recover costs and expenses of the acquisitions; and · potential loss of, or harm to, relationships with employees or customers, any of which could significantly disrupt our ability to manage our business and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on distributors for a substantial portion of our revenues and failure to maintain relationships with our distributors or to otherwise expand our distribution network would materially and adversely affect our business. We sell substantially all of our products (except our vaccines) exclusively to pharmaceutical distributors in China and depend on distributors for a substantial portion of our revenues. We have business relationships directly or indirectly with approximately 1,106 pharmaceutical distributors in China. In each of 2009, 2010 and 2011, no single distributor accounted for, on an individual basis, 10.0% or more of our revenues, and during the same periods, sales to our five largest distributors accounted in aggregate for approximately 14.0%, 17.6% and 17.2% respectively, of our revenues. In line with industry practices in China, we typically enter into written distribution agreements with our distributors for one-year terms that are generally renewed annually. As our existing distribution agreements expire, we may be unable to renew with our desired distributors on favorable terms or at all. In addition, some of our distributors may sell products that compete with our products. We compete for desired distributors with other pharmaceutical manufacturers, many of which may have higher visibility, greater name recognition and financial resources, and broader product selection than we do. Consequently, maintaining relationships with existing distributors and replacing distributors may be difficult and time-consuming. Any disruption of our distribution network, including our failure to renew our existing distribution agreements with our desired distributors, could negatively affect our ability to effectively sell our products and would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to effectively manage our employees, distribution network and third-party marketing firms, and our reputation, business, prospects and brand may be materially and adversely affected by actions taken by our distributors. We have limited ability to manage the activities of distributors and third-party marketing firms that we contract with to promote our products and brand name, all of which are independent from us. Our distributors and third-party marketing firms could take one or more of the following actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and brand: 15 Table of Contents · sell our products outside their designated territory, possibly in violation of the exclusive distribution rights of other distributors; · fail to adequately promote our products; or · violate the anti-corruption laws of China, the United States or other countries. In addition, although our company policies prohibit our employees from making improper payments to hospitals or otherwise engaging in improper activities to influence the procurement decisions of hospitals, or in the case of sales of vaccines, to CDCs, we may not be able to effectively manage our sales and marketing employees, as their compensation is primarily linked to their performance. As a result, we cannot assure you that our employees will not violate the anti-corruption laws of China, the United States or other countries. Such violations could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, prospects and brand. Failure to adequately manage our employees, distribution network or third-party marketing firms, or their non-compliance with employment, distribution or marketing agreements could harm our corporate image among end users of our products and disrupt our sales, resulting in a failure to meet our sales goals. Furthermore, we could be liable for actions taken by our employees, distributors or third-party marketing firms, including any violations of applicable law in connection with the marketing or sale of our products, including China’s anti-corruption laws and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of the United States, or the FCPA. In particular, if our employees, distributors or third-party marketing firms make any payments that are forbidden under the FCPA, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties imposed by the U.S. government. The PRC government has launched anti-corruption campaigns and measures from time to time. In the pharmaceutical industry, corrupt practices include, among others, acceptance of kickbacks, bribes or other illegal gains or benefits by the hospitals and medical practitioners from pharmaceutical manufacturers and distributors in connection with the prescription of certain pharmaceuticals. Our employees, affiliates, distributors or third-party marketing firms may violate these laws or otherwise engage in illegal practices with respect to their sales or marketing of our products or other activities involving our products. If our employees, affiliates, distributors or third-party marketing firms violate these laws, we could be required to pay damages or fines, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, PRC laws regarding what types of payments to promote or sell our products are impermissible are not always clear. As a result, we, our employees, affiliates, our distributors or third-party marketing firms could make certain payments in connection with the promotion or sale of our products or other activities involving our products which at the time are considered by us or them to be legal but are later deemed impermissible by the PRC government. Furthermore, our brand and reputation, our sales activities or the price of our ADSs could be adversely affected if we become the target of any negative publicity as a result of actions taken by our employees, affiliates, distributors or third-party marketing firms. In addition, government-sponsored anti-corruption campaigns from time to time could have a chilling effect on our marketing efforts to new hospital customers. There is no assurance that our existing products will continue to be included or new products developed by us will be included in the Essential Drug List and Reimbursement List. Eligible participants in the national basic medical insurance program in China are entitled to reimbursement from the social medical insurance fund for up to the entire cost of medicines that are included in the Essential Drug List and Reimbursement List. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulation —Reimbursement Under the National Medical Insurance Program.” As of March 31, 2012, 36 of our 47 principal products were included in the Essential Drug List and Reimbursement List. Inclusion of a medicine in the Essential Drug List and Reimbursement List can substantially improve the sales of the medicine. The Ministry of Human Sources and Social Security in China, or the Ministry of Human Resources, together with other 16 Table of Contents government authorities from time to time, selects medicines to be included in the Essential Drug List and Reimbursement List based on factors including treatment requirements, frequency of use, effectiveness and price. The Ministry of Human Resources also periodically adjusts medicines from such catalogs. There can be no assurance that our existing products will continue to be included in the Essential Drug List and Reimbursement List. The removal or exclusion of our products from the Essential Drug List and Reimbursement List may adversely affect our sales. In addition, there is significant uncertainty related to the coverage and reimbursement of newly approved pharmaceutical products. The commercial success of our potential products is substantially dependent on whether the tender is successful or not. Our failure to obtain inclusion of our potential products to the Essential Drug List and Reimbursement List may adversely affect the future sales of those products. We have limited insurance coverage and may incur losses resulting from product liability claims or business interruptions. The nature of our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims that is inherent in the research and development, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical products. Using product candidates in clinical trials also exposes us to product liability claims. These risks are greater for our products that receive regulatory approval for commercial sale. Even if a product were approved for commercial use by an appropriate governmental agency, there can be no assurance that users will not claim effects other than those intended resulted from the use of our products. While to date no material claim for personal injury resulting from allegedly defective products has been brought against us, a substantial claim or a substantial number of claims, if successful, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Such lawsuits may divert the attention of our management from our business strategies and may be costly to defend. In addition, we do not maintain product liability insurance or insurance covering potential liability relating to the release of hazardous materials. In the event of allegations that any of our products are harmful, we may experience reduced consumer demand for our products or our products may be recalled from the market. We may also be forced to defend lawsuits and, if unsuccessful, to pay a substantial amount in damages. In addition, business interruption insurance available in China offers limited coverage compared to that offered in many other countries. We do not have any business interruption insurance. Any business disruption or natural disaster could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. Our revenues depend and will likely continue to depend on a limited number of product lines. We had six products that individually contributed over RMB100.0 million ($15.9 million) to our revenues in 2011, which were Bicun, Zailin, Endu, Yingtaiqing, Sinofuan and Yidasheng. Sales of these products accounted in aggregate for 77.9% of our revenues in 2011. We expect sales of these limited products to comprise a substantial portion of our revenues in the future. Accordingly, any factors adversely affecting the sales of any of these products will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our limited operating history may not serve as an adequate basis to judge our future prospects and results of operations. We commenced operations in March 1995 and operated our business mainly as a distributor of pharmaceutical products. Since then, we have gradually built up our research, development and manufacturing capabilities and have become an integrated pharmaceutical company that develops, manufactures and sells pharmaceutical products. Therefore we have a limited operating history under our current business model upon which you can evaluate the viability and sustainability of our business. Accordingly, you should consider our future prospects in light of the risks and uncertainties experienced by other China-based early stage companies. Some of these risks and uncertainties relate to our ability to: · retain and acquire customers; 17 Table of Contents · diversify our revenue sources by successfully developing and selling new products; · effectively manage our business as it expands; · respond to changes in our regulatory environment; · manage risks associated with intellectual property rights; · maintain effective control of our costs and expenses; · raise sufficient capital to sustain and expand our business; and · attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of these risks and uncertainties, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth would be adversely affected. We may not be able to manage our expansion of operations effectively. We commenced business operations in March 1995, changed our business model in 2001, and have grown rapidly. We anticipate significant continued expansion of our business to address growth in demand for our products, as well as to capture new market opportunities. To manage the potential growth of our operations, we will be required to improve our operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, increase manufacturing capacity and output, and expand, train and manage our growing employee base. Furthermore, we need to maintain and expand our relationships with our customers, suppliers and other third parties. We cannot assure you that our current and planned operations, personnel, systems, internal procedures and controls will be adequate to support our future growth. In addition, the success of our growth strategy depends on a number of internal and external factors, such as the expected growth of the pharmaceutical market in China and the competition from other pharmaceutical companies. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, execute our business strategies or respond to competitive pressures. We have no control over Hong Kong Medgenn or the development and sale of Endu outside of the PRC. Our brand and reputation may be adversely affected if the development and sale of Endu outside of the PRC violate the intellectual property rights of any third parties. Medgenn (Hong Kong) Co., Ltd., or Hong Kong Medgenn, an affiliate company in which we owned indirectly an effective 40.0% equity interest as of the date of this annual report, has the ability to engage in the development and sale of Endu in any jurisdiction outside of the PRC, including the United States, until February 10, 2015. The other 60.0% of Hong Kong Medgenn was owned by Bestspeed Investments Limited, or Bestspeed, a British Virgin Islands company. Hong Kong Medgenn’s board of directors has five members, including Dr. Yongzhang Luo, Mr. Willi Chu and Mr. Linghai Zhu, all of whom were appointed by Bestspeed, and Mr. Jinsheng Ren and Mr. Xiaojin Yin, both of whom were appointed by Shandong Simcere Medgenn Bio-Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., or Shandong Simcere, formerly known as Yantai Medgenn Co., Ltd., and are also our executive officers. Bestspeed was a shareholder of Hong Kong Medgenn prior to our acquisition of an 80.0% equity interest in Shandong Simcere in May 2006 and we are unable to ascertain the identities of the natural persons who control Bestspeed. We are not aware of whether Hong Kong Medgenn has commenced any operations to date, or whether it has obtained any regulatory approval outside of the PRC to sell Endu. Hong Kong Medgenn holds the rights to apply for patents and may grant its rights with respect to Endu in these jurisdictions to independent third parties. A cooperation agreement entered into on February 10, 2005 between Bestspeed and Shandong Simcere provides Bestspeed with daily operating control over Hong Kong Medgenn’s business, including the development and sale of Endu in any 18 Table of Contents jurisdiction outside of the PRC until February 10, 2015. If Hong Kong Medgenn violates the intellectual property rights of any third parties or otherwise suffers economic or other losses, our brand, reputation, business and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, the agreements with Hong Kong Medgenn will prohibit us from engaging in the development and sale of Endu outside of the PRC prior to February 10, 2015, which might hinder our ability to grow our business outside of the PRC. Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our executive officers, research personnel and other key personnel, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. We depend on key members of our management team, research personnel and other key personnel. In particular, we depend on the services of Mr. Jinsheng Ren, our founder, the chairman of our board of directors and our chief executive officer, and Mr. Xiaojin Yin, our senior vice president of research and development. The loss of key employees could delay the advancement of our research and development activities. The implementation of our business strategy and our future success will depend in large part on our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified scientific, technical and management personnel. We face competition for personnel from other pharmaceutical companies, universities, public and private research institutions and other organizations. The process of hiring suitably qualified personnel is often lengthy. If our recruitment and retention efforts are unsuccessful in the future, it may be more difficult for us to execute our business strategy. We do not maintain key employee insurance. If one or more of our executive officers, research personnel and other key personnel are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them readily, if at all. Therefore, our business may be severely disrupted, and we may incur additional expenses to recruit and retain new officers. In addition, if any of our executive officers or key research personnel joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose some of our customers. Each of our executive officers, key research personnel and marketing managers has entered into a confidentiality and non-competition agreement with us. However, if any disputes arise between our executive officers, key research personnel and marketing managers and us, we cannot assure you, in light of uncertainties associated with the PRC legal system, the extent to which any of these agreements could be enforced in China, where some of our executive officers reside and hold some of their assets. See “—Risks Related to Doing Business in China—Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could have a material adverse effect on us.” Delays in production due to regulatory restrictions or other factors could have a material adverse impact on our business. We manufacture substantially all of our products in our own manufacturing facilities. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires precise and reliable controls and regulatory authorities in China have imposed significant compliance obligations to regulate the manufacturing of pharmaceutical products. As a result, we may face delays in production due to regulatory restrictions or other factors. In addition, we have engaged independent third party manufacturers to manufacture three of our pharmaceuticals. Currently, two of our generic pharmaceuticals are still manufactured by independent third party manufacturers. Our contract manufacturers may not be able to manufacture our products without interruption, may not comply with their obligations under our various supply arrangements, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Failure by our own manufacturing facility or any third party product supplier to comply with regulatory requirements could adversely affect our ability to provide products. All facilities and manufacturing techniques used for the manufacture of pharmaceutical products must be operated in conformity with GMPs. In complying with GMP requirements, we and our product suppliers must continually spend time, money and effort in production, record-keeping and quality assurance and control to ensure that the product meets applicable specifications and other requirements for product safety, efficacy and quality. Manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the SFDA and other 19 Table of Contents regulatory authorities. In addition, adverse experiences with the use of products must be reported to the SFDA and could result in the imposition of market restrictions through labeling changes or in product removal. Suppliers of certain active and inactive pharmaceutical ingredients and certain packaging materials used in our products are required to obtain SFDA approval before they may supply us with such materials. The development and regulatory approval of our products are dependent upon our ability to procure these ingredients, packaging materials and finished products from SFDA-approved sources. SFDA approval of a new supplier would be required if, for example, an existing supplier breached its obligations to us, active ingredients, packaging materials or finished products were no longer available from the initially approved supplier or if a supplier had its approval from the SFDA withdrawn. The qualification of a new product supplier could potentially delay the manufacture of the product involved. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain active ingredients, packaging materials or finished products from a new supplier on terms that are at least as favorable to us as those agreed with the initially approved supplier or at reasonable prices. A delay in supplying, or failure to supply, products by any product supplier could result in our inability to meet the demand for our products and adversely affect our revenues, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our operating results may fluctuate considerably on a quarterly basis. These fluctuations could have an adverse effect on the price of our shares and ADSs. Our results of operations may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis as a result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Although many companies may encounter this problem, it is particularly relevant to us because of our relatively small size, our limited operating history, our reliance on limited number of products and the dynamics of the Chinese pharmaceutical industry in which we operate. Factors that could cause our results of operations to fluctuate include, among others: · the seasonal fluctuations in demand for our products, especially our antibiotics, such as Zailin and Anqi; · timing of research and development expenses; · regulatory events; · new product introductions by us or our competitors; · variations in the demand for products we may introduce; · litigation involving patents, licenses or other intellectual property; and · product liability lawsuits. Any of the foregoing factors could cause us to fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause the trading price of our shares and ADSs to decline. Our future liquidity needs are uncertain and we may need to raise additional funds in the future. We may, from time to time, need to raise funds as part of our business operations if our expenditures exceed our expectations. This could occur for a number of reasons, including but not limited to: · we determine to devote significant amount of financial resources to the research and development of projects that we believe to have significant commercialization potential; 20 Table of Contents · we determine to acquire or license rights to additional product candidates or new technologies; · some or all of our product candidates fail in clinical trials or pre-clinical studies or prove to be not as commercially promising as we expect and we are forced to develop or acquire additional product candidates; · our product candidates require more extensive clinical or pre-clinical testing or clinical trials of these product candidates take longer to complete than we currently expect; or · we determine or are required to conduct more high-throughput screening than expected against current or additional disease targets to develop additional product candidates. Our ability to raise additional funds in the future is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: · our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; · general market conditions for capital-raising activities by pharmaceutical companies; and · economic, political and other conditions in China and elsewhere. We cannot assure you that our revenues will be sufficient to meet our operational needs and capital requirements. If we need to obtain external financing, we cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our future liquidity needs and other business reasons could require us to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity or equity-linked securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of additional indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. A significant amount of intangible assets and goodwill are recorded on our balance sheet. Future impairment of our intangible assets or goodwill could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2011, our net intangible assets including in-process research and development (“IPR&D”) amounted to RMB338.5 million ($53.8 million), representing 9.1% of our total assets, and goodwill amounted to RMB309.9 million ($49.2 million), representing 8.3% of our total assets. Our intangible assets primarily consisted of customer relationships, developed technologies, product trademarks and IPR&D that we acquired in connection with our acquisition of 90.0% of the equity interest in Shandong Simcere in 2006 and 2007, a 51.0% equity interest in Jilin Boda Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., or Jilin Boda, in 2007, an 85.7% equity interest in Nanjing Tung Chit Pharmaceutical Company Limited, or Nanjing Tung Chit, in 2007, a 70.0% equity interest in Wuhu Simcere Zhong Ren Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., or Simcere Zhong Ren, in 2008, and 52.5% equity interest in Jiangsu Quanyi in 2009. Developed technology represents the right to use, manufacture, market and sell the acquired products as well as their related invention patents in the PRC or the United States, as the case may be, while trademarks represent the right by the trademark registrant to use the registered trademark and to protect products from infringement. We estimated the fair value of the customer relationships, developed technologies, trademarks and IPR&D of the acquired products using their respective present values of projected cash flows based on assumptions with respect to the 21 Table of Contents growth rate of our revenues from sales, the earnings before interest and tax margin derived from sales, the discount rate selected to measure the risks inherent in future cash flows and our assessment of the product life cycle. We also took into consideration the competitive trends that may affect these products’ sales, including consideration of any technical, legal, regulatory, and economic barriers to entry. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—A. Operating Results—Critical Accounting Policies—Long-Lived Assets and Goodwill.” We determined the useful life of the developed technology of an acquired product by considering the remaining protection period of such product’s patent in China and the expected competitive trend in the PRC market. As of December 31, 2011, we performed goodwill impairment analysis of our two reporting units, a pharmaceutical reporting unit and a vaccine reporting unit. Based on this analysis, no impairment loss was recognized in 2011. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Acquisitions.” Future events such as market acceptance of the acquire products, introduction of superior pharmaceuticals by our competitors, regulatory actions, safety concerns as to our pharmaceuticals or vaccines, and challenges to and infringement of our intellectual property rights, could have a material impact on our key assumptions in determining the fair value of the developed technology of the acquired products. This in turn could result in further write-downs of our intangible assets or goodwill, or a change in the useful lives of our intangible assets. Future impairment of our intangible assets or goodwill, or change in useful lives of our intangible assets, could decrease our net income, which would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our non-public shareholders have substantial influence over our company and their interests may not be aligned with the interests of our other shareholders. As of the date of this annual report, we had a number of shareholders other than public shareholders holding our ordinary shares in the form of ADSs, including New Good Management Limited, a company beneficially owned by 8 individuals, including certain of our senior management, and controlled by Mr. Jinsheng Ren, our founder, chief executive officer and chairman of our board of directors; Assure Ahead Investments Limited, an investment vehicle owned and controlled by a group of financial investors; and King View Development International Limited, an investment vehicle owned and controlled by Trustbridge Partners, a private equity fund. As of April 18, 2012, New Good Management Limited owned approximately 35.7% of our outstanding share capital, and Assure Ahead Investments Limited, King View Development International Limited and Fosun Industrial Co., Ltd. owned 17.0% 11.2% and 7.6% of our outstanding share capital, respectively. As such, they have substantial influence over our business, including decisions regarding mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our ADSs. Our production activities involve the controlled use of potentially harmful biological materials as well as hazardous materials and chemicals. Our production activities involve the controlled use of potentially harmful biological materials as well as hazardous materials and chemicals. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials. In the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for damages that result, which could exceed our resources. We are subject to national, provincial and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and specified waste products. We believe we are currently in compliance with these laws and regulations. However, any failure by us to control the use, storage, handling and disposal of these hazardous materials and chemicals could subject us to potentially significant monetary damages and fines or suspensions of our business operations. In addition, we do not currently carry any insurance for potential liabilities relating to the release of hazardous materials as such insurance is not currently available in China. 22 Table of Contents We rely on third parties to provide raw materials and any quality defect may have an adverse impact on our products, our business and results of operations. We source raw materials such as capsules, as well as packaging materials, from various independent suppliers in China. Our principal packaging materials include glass ampules for injection pharmaceuticals, plastic bottles for capsule and tablet pharmaceuticals, and external packaging and printed instructions for all of our pharmaceuticals. The principal raw materials used for our vaccine products are egg embryos, which were supplied by two domestic manufacturers. Although we have internal quality control system to control the quality of purchased raw materials, we may not be able to identify all quality defects. If any quality defect of the raw materials that we purchase happens, our products, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. Labor laws in the PRC may adversely affect our results of operations. On June 29, 2007, the PRC government promulgated a new labor law, namely, the Labor Contract Law of the PRC, or the Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. The Implementation Rules of the Labor Contract Law was subsequently promulgated and became effective on September 18, 2008. The PRC government also promulgated the Law on Mediation and Arbitration of Labor Disputes on December 29, 2007 that came into effect on May 1, 2008. These labor laws and regulations impose greater liabilities on employers and significantly impact the cost of an employer’s decision to reduce its workforce. Further, they require certain terminations to be based upon seniority but not merit. In the event we decide to significantly change or decrease our workforce, the Labor Contract Law could adversely affect our ability to enact such changes in a manner that is most advantageous to our business or in a timely and cost effective manner, thus materially and adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. If we grant additional employee share options, restricted shares or other share-based compensation in the future, our net income could be adversely affected. We adopted a share incentive plan on November 13, 2006. We issued 10,000,000, 1,045,000, 400,000, 100,000 and 978,000 share options under our 2006 share incentive plan on November 15, 2006, March 29, 2007, May 5, 2008, December 24, 2008 and September 1, 2010, respectively. On July 31, 2008, our shareholders approved our 2008 share incentive plan under which we are authorized to issue up to 6,250,000 ordinary shares upon exercise of awards granted thereunder. As of March 31, 2012, no award was issued under our 2008 share incentive plan. On April 15, 2009, our compensation committee approved a share option exchange program that offered our eligible employees and directors the right to exchange vested and unvested outstanding share options to purchase our ordinary shares under the 2006 Share Incentive Plan for restricted shares (which are referred to in the notes related to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on Form 20-F as “nonvested shares” per FASB ASC, Compensation—Stock Compensation ). The exchange ratio was determined based on the fair value of replacement restricted shares so that the fair value of the replacement restricted shares to be issued upon exchange would be approximately equivalent to the fair value of the share options surrendered by an individual. In addition, these replacement restricted shares are subject to substantially the same vesting schedule as the options that were validly tendered in the exchange offer. The exchange of the share option awards for restricted shares was accounted for as a modification for awards which involves a cancellation of the original award and an issuance of a new award. The replacement restricted shares were granted on May 7, 2009. The effect of this award modification on share-based compensation expense over the remaining requisite service period was insignificant. On October 14, 2009 and December 4, 2009, we issued 200,000 restricted shares and 40,000 restricted shares, respectively, to our officers and key employees under our 2006 share incentive plan. In 2010, we issued 870,000 restricted shares in aggregate to our officers and key employees under our 2006 share incentive plan, including 480,000 restricted shares issued on March 9, 2010 to our independent directors and president. In 2011, we issued 364,000 restricted shares to our officers and key employees under our 2006 share incentive plan. 23 Table of Contents We recognize, as an expense, the fair value of share options and other share-based compensation to employees based on the fair value of equity awards on the date of the grant, with the compensation expense recognized over the period in which the recipient is required to provide service in exchange for the equity award. If we grant additional options, restricted shares and other equity incentives in the future, we could incur significant compensation charges and our net income could be adversely affected. Counterfeit pharmaceuticals in China could negatively impact our revenues, brand reputation, business and results of operations. Our products are also subject to competition from counterfeit pharmaceuticals, which are pharmaceuticals manufactured without proper licenses or approvals and are fraudulently mislabeled with respect to their content and/or manufacturer. Counterfeiters may illegally manufacture and market pharmaceuticals under our brand name or that of our competitors. Counterfeit pharmaceuticals are generally sold at lower prices than the authentic products due to their low production costs, and in some cases are very similar in appearance to the authentic products. Counterfeit pharmaceuticals may or may not have the same chemical content as their authentic counterparts. If counterfeit pharmaceuticals illegally sold under our brand name results in adverse side effects to consumers, we may be associated with any negative publicity resulting from such incidents. In addition, consumers may buy counterfeit pharmaceuticals that are in direct competition with our pharmaceuticals, which could have an adverse impact on our revenues, business and results of operations. Although the PRC government has recently been increasingly active in policing counterfeit pharmaceuticals, there is not yet an effective counterfeit pharmaceutical regulation control and enforcement system in China. The proliferation of counterfeit pharmaceuticals has grown in recent years and may continue to grow in the future. Any such increase in the sales and production of counterfeit pharmaceuticals in China, or the technological capabilities of the counterfeiters, could negatively impact our revenues, brand reputation, business and results of operations. Inappropriate use of our trade names by other entities could negatively affect our business. Our trade name Simcere is also used by companies which are partially owned and controlled by certain shareholders of New Good Management Limited. If any such entity or any company that is unrelated to us uses the trade name Simcere in ways that negatively affect such trade names, our reputation could suffer harm, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders. We believe that we were not a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ended December 31, 2011, and we do not expect to become one for our current taxable year or in the future, although there can be no assurance in this regard. A non-U.S. corporation will be considered a PFIC for any taxable year if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during a taxable year) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. For this purpose, the value of our assets may be determined in large part by the market price of our ADSs, which is likely to fluctuate. If we are treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which U.S. holders hold ADSs or ordinary shares, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could apply to such U.S. holders. See “Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company.” 24 Table of Contents If a poll is not demanded at our shareholder meetings, voting will be by show of hands and shares will not be proportionately represented. Shareholder resolutions may be passed without the presence of the majority of our shareholders in person or by proxy. Voting at any of our shareholder meetings is by show of hands unless a poll is demanded. A poll may be demanded by the chairman of the meeting or by any shareholder present in person or by proxy. If a poll is demanded, each shareholder present in person or by proxy will have one vote for each ordinary share registered in his name. If a poll is not demanded, voting will be by show of hands and each shareholder present in person or by proxy will have one vote regardless of the number of shares registered in his name. In the absence of a poll, shares will therefore not be proportionately represented. In addition, the quorum required for our shareholder meetings consists of shareholders who hold at least one-third of our ordinary shares being present at a meeting in person or by proxy. Therefore, subject to the requisite majorities, shareholder resolutions may be passed at our shareholder meetings without the presence of the majority of our shareholders in person or by proxy. Our independent registered public accounting firm’s audit documentation related to their audit reports included in this annual report may be located in the Peoples’ Republic of China. The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board currently cannot inspect audit documentation located in China and, as such, you may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, as auditors of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (“the “PCAOB”), is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the applicable laws of the United States and professional standards. Our operations are principally conducted in the Peoples’ Republic of China, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Chinese authorities. Accordingly, any audit documentation located in China related to our independent registered public accounting firm’s reports included in our filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is not currently inspected by the PCAOB. Inspections conducted by the PCAOB outside of China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. This lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating audit documentation located in China and its related quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our independent registered public accounting firm’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to audits outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. Risks Related to Our Industry Changes in economic conditions and consumer confidence in China may influence consumer preferences and spending patterns, and accordingly, our results of operations. Our business and revenue growth primarily depend on the size and growth of the market for pharmaceutical products in China. As a result, our revenues and profitability may be negatively affected by changes in national, regional or local economic conditions and consumer confidence in China. In particular, as we focus our expansion of retail stores in metropolitan markets, where living standards and consumer purchasing power are higher than rural areas, we are especially susceptible to changes in economic conditions, consumer confidence and customer preferences of the urban Chinese population. External factors beyond our control that affect consumer confidence include unemployment rates, levels of personal disposable income, national, regional or local economic 25 Table of Contents conditions and acts of war or terrorism. Changes in economic conditions and consumer confidence could adversely affect consumer preferences, purchasing power and spending patterns. In addition, we cannot assure you that market conditions will continue to improve in the near future or that our results will not be materially and adversely affected. In addition, acts of war or terrorism may cause damage to our facilities, disrupt the supply of the products and services we offer in our stores or adversely impact consumer demand. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face intense competition that may prevent us from maintaining or increasing market share for our existing products and gaining market acceptance for our future products. Our competitors may develop or commercialize products before us or more successfully than us. The pharmaceutical market in China is intensely competitive, rapidly evolving and highly fragmented. Our competitors may develop products that are superior to ours or may be more effective in marketing products that are competitive with ours. We face competition from other pharmaceutical companies, including multinational companies as well as manufacturers of traditional Chinese medicines with similar curative effects that can be used as substitutes for certain of our products. Many of our existing and potential competitors may have greater financial, technical, manufacturing and other resources than we do. In addition, certain competitors which were established by multinational pharmaceutical companies have more extensive research and development and technical capabilities than we do. Furthermore, China’s industry reforms aimed to meet the World Trade Organization, or the WTO, requirements may foster increased competition from multinational pharmaceutical companies. Such competitors may also have greater brand name recognition, more established distribution networks, larger customer bases or more extensive knowledge of our target markets. Our competitors’ greater size in some cases provides them with a competitive advantage with respect to manufacturing costs because of their economies of scale and their ability to purchase raw materials at lower prices. As a result, they may be able to devote greater resources to the research, development, promotion and sale of their products or respond more quickly to evolving industry standards and changes in market conditions than we can. In addition, certain of our competitors may adopt low-margin sales strategies and compete against us based on lower prices. Our failure to adapt to changing market conditions and to compete successfully with existing or new competitors may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, to increase sales, certain manufacturers or distributors of pharmaceuticals may engage in questionable practices in order to influence procurement decisions of our customers. As a result, as competition intensifies in the pharmaceutical industry in China, we may lose sales, customers or contracts to competitors that engage in these practices. The retail prices of certain of our products are subject to control, including periodic downward adjustment, by PRC government authorities. Certain of our pharmaceutical products, primarily those included in the Essential Drug List and Reimbursement List, are subject to price controls in the form of fixed retail prices or retail price ceilings. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulation—Price Controls.” In addition, the maximum retail prices of products that are included in the Essential Drug List and Reimbursement List are also subject to periodic downward adjustments as the PRC government authorities aim to make pharmaceuticals more affordable to the general public. However, PRC government authorities impose no control over the prices at which pharmaceutical manufacturers sell their products to their distributors. Since May 1998, the relevant PRC government authorities have ordered price reductions of various pharmaceuticals 28 times. The latest price reductions occurred on March 2, 2011 and September 1, 2011. The retail price ceilings of our major products Yingtaiqing, Anqi and Zailin, were adjusted downward, but will not significantly affect the actual sales price. In the long term, the prices at which pharmaceutical manufacturers in China sell their products to distributors, including the prices of our products, will be affected by the relevant fixed 26 Table of Contents retail prices or retail price ceilings. Government price controls, especially downward price adjustments, may have an adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Pharmaceutical companies in China require a number of permits and licenses in order to carry on their business. All pharmaceutical manufacturing and distribution companies in China are required to obtain certain permits and licenses from various PRC governmental authorities, including, in the case of manufacturing companies, a pharmaceutical manufacturing permit and, in the case of distribution companies, a pharmaceutical distribution permit. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulation.” We have obtained permits and licenses and GMP certifications required for the manufacture of our pharmaceutical products. In addition, we have obtained permits, licenses and Good Supply Practice, or GSP, certifications for the distribution of our products. Each of these permits and licenses held by us is valid for five years and subject to periodic renewal and/or reassessment by the relevant PRC government authorities and the standards of compliance required in relation thereto may from time to time be subject to changes. For example, our current pharmaceutical manufacturing permits for each of Simcere Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., or Hainan Simcere, Nanjing Simcere, Shandong Simcere, Jilin Boda, and Simcere Zhong Ren, will all expire on December 31, 2015. The 20 GMP certificates for our five manufacturing facilities will expire between May, 2013 and September 2016. In, 2011, our branded generic anti-diarrheal pharmaceutical Biqi passed the EU-GMP inspection and received EU-GMP certification from the Finnish Medicines Agency. We also have two GSP certificates held by two of our distribution subsidiaries which will expire in July and November 2013, respectively. At the time we acquired Jiangsu Quanyi , its core products included an influenza vaccine and a human-use rabies vaccine (vero cell). Jiangsu Quanyi had also received a new medicine certificate from the SFDA for its freeze-dried human rabies vaccine (vero cell) and had completed clinical trials of its purified hepatitis A inactivated vaccine (vero cell) while SFDA approval for its purified hepatitis A inactivated vaccine (vero cell) and GMP certification for the associated new manufacturing facility were pending. However, since the discovery of the substandard vaccine manufactured by Jiangsu Quanyi prior to our acquisition, the two new medicine certificates held by Jiangsu Quanyi for its rabies vaccine (vero cell) and freeze-dried human rabies vaccine (vero cell) have been revoked. The GMP certificate for its manufacture of human-use rabies vaccine has also been revoked, and the GMP certificate for its manufacture of influenza vaccine expired on February 2, 2010. In August 2011, Jiangsu Quanyi injected certain machineries and equipment as paid-in capital into Jiangsu Vaxtec Biological Pharmaceutical R&D Co., Ltd., then renamed to Jiangsu Simcere Vaxtec Biological Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. in June 2011, or Jiangsu Vaxtec, the wholly owned subsidiary of Jiangsu Quanyi. Jiangsu Vaxtec will take over the vaccine business from Jiangsu Quanyi and is currently in the process of applying for the GMP certification. We intend to apply for the renewal of our permits and licenses when required by applicable laws and regulations. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulation.” Any failure by us to obtain such GMP certifications may have a material adverse effect on the operation of our business, and prevent us from continuing to carry on our business. Furthermore, any changes in compliance standards, or any new laws or regulations may prohibit or render it more restrictive for us to conduct our business or may increase our compliance costs, which may adversely affect our operations or profitability. 27 Table of Contents Risks Related to Doing Business in China Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could have a material adverse effect on us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike in the common law system, prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. We conduct all of our business through our subsidiaries established in China. These subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us. For example, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protection that we enjoy either by law or contract. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy than in more developed legal systems. These uncertainties may impede our ability to enforce the contracts we have entered into with our business partners, customers and suppliers. In addition, such uncertainties, including the inability to enforce our contracts, could materially and adversely affect our business and operations. Furthermore, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Accordingly, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, particularly with regard to the Chinese pharmaceutical industry, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us and other foreign investors, including you. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources and management attention. Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. All of our business operations are conducted in China and all of our sales are made in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: · the degree of government involvement; · the level of development; · the growth rate; · the control of foreign exchange; · access to financing; and · the allocation of resources. While the Chinese economy has grown significantly in the past, the growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. The Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. 28 Table of Contents Although in recent years the PRC government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the PRC government could materially and adversely affect our business. The PRC government also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. As a result, actions and policies of the PRC government could materially affect our liquidity and access to capital and our ability to operate our business. We rely on dividends paid by our subsidiaries for our cash needs, and any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries to make payments to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We are a holding company with no material operations. We conduct our operations mainly through our PRC subsidiaries. As a holding company, we may depend on the receipt of dividends and the interest and principal payments on intercompany loans or advances from our subsidiaries to satisfy our obligations, including our obligations to pay any dividends we may declare. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends and make payments on intercompany loans or advances to their shareholders is subject to, among other things, distributable earnings, reserve funds, cash flow conditions, restrictions contained in the articles of association of our subsidiaries, applicable laws and restrictions contained in the debt instruments or agreements of such subsidiaries. In addition, if any of our subsidiaries raises capital by issuing equity securities to third parties, dividends declared and paid with respect to such equity securities would be available to us. These restrictions could reduce the amounts that we receive from our subsidiaries, which could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends, service our debts, or otherwise fund and conduct our business. PRC laws and regulations permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations and such profits differ from profits determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP in certain significant respects, including the use of different bases of recognition of revenue and expenses. Our PRC subsidiaries are also required to set aside a portion of their after-tax profits according to PRC accounting standards and regulations to fund certain reserves that are not distributable as cash dividends. In practice, our PRC subsidiaries are also required to obtain a required tax clearance with the local tax bureau and complete the corresponding foreign exchange procedures before paying any dividends. In addition, starting from January 1, 2008, dividends for the year 2008 and onward paid by our PRC subsidiaries to their non-PRC parent companies will be subject to a 10% withholding tax, unless there is a tax treaty between the PRC and the jurisdiction in which the overseas parent company is incorporated, which specifically exempts or reduces such withholding tax. Pursuant to an avoidance of double taxation arrangement between Hong Kong and the PRC, if the non-PRC parent company is a Hong Kong resident and directly holds a 25% or more interest in the PRC enterprise, such PRC withholding tax rate may be lowered to 5%, although there exists uncertainty due to a PRC governmental circular regarding whether and the extent to which Hong Kong holding companies may be eligible for the benefits under this arrangement. Furthermore, we may from time to time resort to offshore shareholder loans, rather than equity contribution, to our PRC subsidiaries to finance their operations. In such events, the market interest rates that our PRC subsidiaries can pay with respect to offshore loans generally may not exceed comparable interest rates in the international finance markets. Our PRC subsidiaries are also required to pay a 10% (or 7% if the interest is paid to a Hong Kong resident under certain circumstances) withholding tax on our behalf on the interest paid under any shareholder loan. Prior to payment of interest and principal on any such shareholder loan, the PRC subsidiaries (as foreign-invested enterprises in China) must present evidence of payment of the withholding tax on the interest payable on any such shareholder loan and evidence of registration with SAFE, as well as any other documents that SAFE or its local branch may require. 29 Table of Contents Under the Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementing regulations, PRC income tax at the rate of 10% is applicable to dividends payable for earnings derived since January 1, 2008 by PRC enterprises to “non-resident enterprises” (enterprises that do not have an establishment or place of business in China or that have such an establishment or place of business in China but for which the relevant income is not effectively connected with such establishment or place of business), subject to any lower withholding tax rate as may be contained in any income tax treaty or agreement that China has entered into with the government of the jurisdiction where such “non-resident enterprises” were incorporated. If we are considered as a “non-resident enterprise” under PRC tax law, any dividend that we receive from our PRC subsidiaries may be subject to PRC taxation at the 10% rate. PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident shareholders to personal liability, limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us, or otherwise adversely affect us. The PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or the SAFE, issued a public notice in October 2005, requiring PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China for the purpose of capital financing with assets or equities of PRC companies, referred to in the notice as an “offshore special purpose company.” PRC residents that are shareholders of offshore special purpose companies established before November 1, 2005 were required to register with the local SAFE branch before March 31, 2006. Our current beneficial owners who are PRC residents have registered with the local SAFE branch as required under the SAFE notice. The failure of these beneficial owners to timely amend their SAFE registrations pursuant to the SAFE notice or the failure of future beneficial owners of our company who are PRC residents to comply with the registration procedures set forth in the SAFE notice may subject such beneficial owners to fines and legal sanctions and may also limit our ability to contribute additional capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends to our company or otherwise adversely affect our business. In addition, the SAFE notice also provides that PRC residents who are shareholders of offshore special purpose companies are required to apply for registration or file with the SAFE within 30 days after the occurrence of certain events with respect to such offshore purpose companies, including the increase or decrease in the registered share capital, the share transfer or exchange of stock rights, acquisition or division, long-term investment of equity or debt, guarantees provided to other parties, provided that such events do not involve direct investment of capital into PRC subsidiaries by those PRC residents through the offshore special purpose companies. Our financial results benefit from tax concessions granted by the PRC government, the change to or expiration of which would materially change our results of operations. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by changes to or expiration of tax holidays and preferential tax policies that some of our PRC subsidiaries currently enjoy. The statutory tax rate generally applicable to Chinese companies is 25%. As a result of tax holidays and preferential tax policies, our operations have been subject to relatively low tax liabilities. For additional details regarding these tax incentives, please see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects —Taxation and Incentives.” Tax laws in China are subject to interpretations by relevant tax authorities. The preferential tax policies may not remain in effect or may change, in which case we may be required to pay the higher income tax rate generally applicable to Chinese companies, or such other rate as is required by the laws of China. 30 Table of Contents Dividends we receive from our operating subsidiaries located in the PRC may be subject to PRC withholding tax. The Corporate Income Tax Law of the PRC, or the CIT law, provides that a maximum income tax rate of 10% may be applicable to dividends payable to non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises” to the extent such dividends are derived from sources within the PRC. We are a Cayman Islands holding company and State Good Group Limited, or SGG, is a British Virgin Islands intermediate holding company. Substantially all of our income may be derived from dividends we receive from our operating subsidiaries located in the PRC. Thus, dividends indirectly paid to us by our subsidiaries in China, if any, may be subject to the 10% income tax if SGG is considered as a “non-resident enterprise” under the CIT law. We have not provided for income taxes on accumulated earnings generated by our PRC subsidiaries from 2008 to 2011 because we plan to indefinitely reinvest these earnings in the PRC. If SGG is required under the CIT law to pay income tax with respect to any dividends we receive from our subsidiaries, it will materially and adversely affect the amount of dividends, if any, we may pay to our shareholders and ADS holders. We may be deemed a PRC resident enterprise under the CIT law and be subject to the PRC taxation on our worldwide income. The CIT law also provides that enterprises established outside of China whose “de facto management bodies” are located in China are considered “resident enterprises” and are generally subject to the uniform 25% corporate income tax rate as to their worldwide income. Under the implementation rules for the CIT law issued by the PRC State Council, “de facto management body” is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and treasury, and acquisition and disposition of properties and other assets of an enterprise. Although substantially all of our operational management is currently based in the PRC, it is unclear whether PRC tax authorities would require (or permit) our overseas registered entities to be treated as PRC resident enterprises. If we or our non-PRC subsidiaries are treated as resident enterprises for PRC tax purposes, we and/or such subsidiaries would be subject to PRC tax on worldwide income at the 25% uniform tax rate, which could have an impact on our effective tax rate and an adverse effect on our net income and results of operations, although dividends distributed from our PRC subsidiaries could be exempt from Chinese dividend withholding tax, because such income may be exempt under the CIT law to PRC resident enterprise recipients. Dividends payable by us to our foreign investors and gain on the sale of our ADSs or ordinary shares may become subject to taxes under PRC tax laws. Under the CIT law and the implementation rules issued by the State Council, PRC income tax at the rate of 10% is applicable to dividends payable to investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” which do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC, or which have such establishment or place of business but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business, to the extent such dividends have their sources within the PRC. Similarly, any gain realized on the transfer of ADSs or ordinary shares by such investors is also subject to 10% PRC income tax if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC. If we are considered a PRC “resident enterprise,” it is unclear whether dividends we pay with respect to our ADSs or ordinary shares, or the gain you may realize from the transfer of our ADSs or ordinary shares, would be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC and be subject to PRC income tax. It is also unclear whether, if we are considered a PRC resident enterprise, holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares would be able to claim the benefits of income tax treaties entered into between China and other jurisdictions. If we are required under the CIT law to withhold PRC income tax on dividends payable to our non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of our ADSs or ordinary shares, the value of your investment in our ADSs or ordinary shares may be materially and adversely affected. 31 Table of Contents Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The change in value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar, Euro or other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt a more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. As we rely on dividends paid to us by our PRC operating subsidiaries, any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ADSs in foreign currency terms. Appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the Renminbi amount we would receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. In addition, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive all our revenues in Renminbi. Under our current corporate structure, our income is primarily derived from dividend payments from our PRC subsidiaries. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends or other payments to us, or otherwise satisfy their foreign currency-denominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the SAFE by complying with certain procedural requirements. In addition, foreign currencies received under current account items can be retained or sold to financial institutions engaged in the foreign exchange settlement or sales business by complying with relevant regulations. However, approval from SAFE or its local branch is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans denominated in foreign currencies. Similarly, approval from the SAFE or its local branch is required if foreign currencies received in respect of capital account items is to be retained or sold to financial institutions engaged in the foreign exchange settlement or sales business. The PRC government may also, at its discretion, restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. We face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks of contagious diseases, including avian flu, SARS, and swine flu. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of avian flu, SARS, swine flu or another epidemic or outbreak. During April and May 2009, there have been outbreaks of highly pathogenic swine flu, caused by the H1N1A virus, in certain regions of the world, including parts of Asia. In 2007 and early 2008, there were reports of outbreaks of a highly pathogenic avian flu, caused by the H5N1 virus, in certain regions of Asia and Europe. In 2005 and 2006, there were reports on the occurrences of avian flu in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases. An outbreak of avian flu in the human population could result in a widespread health crisis that could adversely affect the economies and financial markets of many countries, particularly in Asia. Additionally, any recurrence of SARS, a highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia, similar to the occurrence in 2003 which affected China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore, Vietnam and certain other 32 Table of Contents countries, would also have similar adverse effects. These outbreaks of contagious diseases, and other adverse public health developments in China, would have a material adverse effect on our business operations. These could include restrictions on our ability to travel or to ship our products within China, as well as cause temporary closure of our manufacturing facilities. Such closures or travel or shipment restrictions would severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future outbreak of avian flu, SARS, swine flu or any other epidemic. Risks Related to Our ADSs The market price for our ADSs may be volatile. The market price for our ADSs is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: · announcements of technological or competitive developments; · regulatory developments in China affecting us, our customers or our competitors; · announcements regarding patent litigation or the issuance of patents to us or our competitors; · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; · changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; · changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other pharmaceutical companies; · addition or departure of our executive officers and key research personnel; · release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares or ADSs; and · sales or perceived sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. Substantial future sales or perceived sales of our ADSs in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Additional sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares, including ADSs or ordinary shares issuable upon the exercise of our outstanding stock options, in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. If our shareholders sell substantial amounts of our ADSs, including those issued upon the exercise of outstanding options, in the public market, the market price of our ADSs could fall. Such sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. If any existing shareholder or shareholders sell a substantial amount of ordinary shares, the prevailing market price for our ADSs could be adversely affected. In addition, we may issue additional ordinary shares or ADSs for future acquisitions. If we pay for our future acquisitions in whole or in part with additionally issued ordinary shares or ADSs, your ownership interests in our company would be diluted and this, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our ADSs. 33 Table of Contents Our articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could discourage a third party from acquiring us, which could limit our shareholders’ opportunity to sell their shares, including ordinary shares represented by our ADSs, at a premium. Our second amended and restated articles of association currently in effect limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares. These preferred shares may have better voting rights than our ordinary shares, in the form of ADSs or otherwise, and could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. If our board of directors decides to issue preferred shares, the price of our ADSs may fall and the voting rights of the holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be diluted. Certain actions require the approval of a supermajority of at least two-thirds of our board of directors which, among other things, would allow our non-independent directors to block a variety of actions or transactions, such as a merger, asset sale or other change of control, even if all of our independent directors unanimously voted in favor of such action, thereby further depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium. Holders of ADSs have fewer rights than shareholders and must act through the depositary to exercise those rights. Holders of ADSs do not have the same rights of our shareholders and may only exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under our second amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the minimum notice period required to convene a general meeting is seven days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw your ordinary shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your ADSs. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ADSs are not voted as you requested. In addition, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to call a shareholders’ meeting. You may be subject to limitations on transfers of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. 34 Table of Contents Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings and you may not receive cash dividends if it is impractical to make them available to you. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary bank will not make rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act, or exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. In addition, the depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute such property and you will not receive such distribution. We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than that under U.S. law, you may have less protection for your shareholder rights than you would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our second amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law (as amended) and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as that from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a U.S. public company. You may have difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us. We are a Cayman Islands company and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. Substantially all of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose 35 Table of Contents assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands or the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal or state securities laws and it is uncertain whether such Cayman Islands or PRC courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands or the PRC against us or such persons predicated upon U.S. federal or state securities laws. 