risk factors identified in the “Risk Factors” section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Cautionary Note The representations, warranties, and covenants made by us in any agreement filed as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K are made solely for the benefit of the parties to the agreement, including, in some cases, for the purpose of allocating risk among the parties to the agreement, and should not be deemed to be representations, warranties, or covenants to or with any other parties. Moreover, these representations, warranties, or covenants should not be relied upon as accurately describing or reflecting the current state of our affairs. PART I 1. Business Organization Behringer Harvard Multifamily REIT I, Inc. (which may be referred to as the “Company,” “we,” “us,” or “our”) was organized in Maryland on August 4, 2006 and has elected to be taxed, and currently qualifies, as a real estate investment trust (“REIT”) for federal income tax purposes. As a REIT, we generally are not subject to corporate-level income taxes. To maintain our REIT status, we are required, among other requirements, to distribute annually at least 90% of our “REIT taxable income”, as defined by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), to our stockholders. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we would be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate tax rates. As of December 31, 2008 we believe we are in compliance with all applicable REIT requirements. We invest in and operate multifamily communities. These multifamily communities include conventional multifamily assets, such as mid-rise, high-rise, and garden style properties, and may also include student housing and age-restricted properties, typically requiring residents to be age 55 or older, as well as more opportunistic properties in various phases of development, redevelopment or repositioning. We intend to make investments directly in wholly owned investments and indirectly through co-investment arrangements with other participants (“Co-Investment Ventures”). Further, we may invest in commercial real estate, options to acquire real estate, real estate-related securities, collateralized mortgage-backed securities, mortgage, bridge, mezzanine or other loans and Section 1031 tenant-in-common interests, or in entities that make similar investments. We completed our first investment in April 2007 and, as of December 31, 2008, we have made investments in ten multifamily communities, nine in various stages of development and one operating property. We have no employees and are supported by related party service agreements. We are externally managed by Behringer Harvard Multifamily Advisors I LP (“Behringer Harvard Multifamily Advisors I”), a Texas limited partnership organized in 2006. Behringer Harvard Multifamily Advisors I is responsible for managing our affairs on a day-to-day basis and for identifying and 3 Table of Contents making real estate investments on our behalf. Substantially all our business is conducted through our operating partnership Behringer Harvard Multifamily OP I LP, a Delaware limited partnership (“Behringer Harvard Multifamily OP I”). Our wholly-owned subsidiary, BHMF, Inc., a Delaware corporation (“BHMF Inc.”) owns less than 0.1% of Behringer Harvard Multifamily OP I as its sole general partner. The remaining ownership interest in Behringer Harvard Multifamily OP I is held as a limited partner’s interest by BHMF Business Trust, a Maryland business trust. Our office is located at 15601 Dallas Parkway, Suite 600, Addison, Texas 75001, and our toll free telephone number is (866) 655-3600. The name Behringer Harvard is the property of Behringer Harvard Holdings, LLC and is used by permission. Offerings of our Common Stock We are authorized to issue 875,000,000 shares of common stock, 1,000 shares of convertible stock and 124,999,000 shares of preferred stock. All shares of common stock have a par value of $.0001 per share. On August 4, 2006 (date of inception), we sold 1,249 shares of our common stock to Behringer Harvard Holdings, LLC (“Behringer Harvard Holdings”) for cash of $10,004. On November 28, 2007, we sold an additional 23,720 shares of our common stock to Behringer Harvard Holdings for cash of $189,997. On November 22, 2006, we commenced a private offering pursuant to Regulation D of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) to sell a maximum of approximately $400 million of common stock to accredited investors (the “Private Offering”). We held all Private Offering proceeds in escrow until after we had sold our initial $1.5 million of shares of common stock. In April 2007, the Company released the proceeds from escrow and began issuing shares of our common stock. We terminated the Private Offering on December 28, 2007. We sold a total of approximately 14.2 million shares of common stock and raised a total of approximately $127.3 million in gross offering proceeds in the Private Offering. Net proceeds, after selling commissions, dealer manager fees, and other offering costs, were approximately $114.3 million. On September 5, 2008, we commenced a public offering (the “Initial Public Offering”) of up to 200,000,000 shares of common stock offered at a price of $10.00 per share pursuant to a Registration Statement on Form S-11 filed under the Securities Act. The Initial Public Offering also covered the registration of up to an additional 50,000,000 shares of common stock at a price of $9.50 per share pursuant to our distribution reinvestment plan (“DRIP”). We reserve the right to reallocate shares of our common stock between the primary offering and our DRIP. As of December 31, 2008, we sold a total of approximately 1.1 million shares of common stock and raised a total of approximately $10.9 million in gross offering proceeds in the Initial Public Offering. Net proceeds, after selling commissions, dealer manager fees, and other offering costs, were approximately $9.5 million. As of December 31, 2008, we had issued approximately 15.4 million shares of our common stock, including 24,969 shares owned by Behringer Harvard Holdings and 18,034 shares through the DRIP and 6,000 shares of restricted stock issued to our independent directors for no cash. As of December 31, 2008, we had redeemed 16,667 shares of our common stock and had approximately 15.3 million shares of our common stock outstanding. As of December 31, 2008, we had 1,000 shares of non-participation, non-voting convertible stock issued and outstanding and no shares of preferred stock issued and outstanding. Aggregate gross offering proceeds from our offerings total approximately $138.1 million and net proceeds, after selling commissions, dealer manager fees, and organization and offering expenses, total approximately $123.7 million. We intend to use the proceeds from our offerings of our common stock, after deducting offering expenses, primarily to make investments in multifamily communities, with a particular focus on using multiple strategies to acquire high quality multifamily communities that will produce rental income. We will acquire a blended portfolio consisting of core, stabilized income generating assets, assets that may benefit from enhancement or repositioning and development assets for stabilization to retain as core assets generating income with potential capital appreciation. While conducting an offering, we admit new stockholders at least monthly. All subscription proceeds are held in a separate account until the subscribing investors are admitted as stockholders. Upon admission of new stockholders, subscription proceeds are transferred to operating cash and may be utilized as consideration for investments and the payment or reimbursement of dealer manager fees, selling commissions, offering expenses and operating expenses. Until required for such purposes, net offering proceeds are held in short-term, liquid investments including but not limited to money market accounts and FDIC-insured deposits. Our common stock is not currently listed on a national securities exchange. However, management anticipates within four to six years after the termination of our public offering to begin the process of either listing the common stock on a national securities exchange or liquidating our assets, depending on the then-prevailing market conditions. 4 Table of Contents 2008 Highlights During 2008, we completed the following key transactions: · Our Initial Public Offering become effective for sales in all 50 states and we issued approximately 1.1 million shares of our Initial Public Offering of common stock (inclusive of distribution reinvestments and without regard to redemptions), resulting in gross proceeds to us of approximately $10.9 million; · We made distributions of $5.9 million; · We earned net income of $2.6 million, compared to a net loss of $0.2 million in 2007; · Our share of investment in unconsolidated Co-Investment Ventures was $96.5 million. Significant real estate investments by these Co-Investment Ventures included: · advanced approximately $49.1million under loans with a weighted average interest rate of 10.1% to partially fund seven multifamily developments located in Texas, Maryland, Florida, Nevada and Colorado, including the recapitalization mentioned below; · recapitalized an existing investment in a 430 unit, multifamily community in Henderson, Nevada, acquiring a limited partnership interest for $5.2 million and advancing $14.7 million on a $21.0 million mezzanine loan; · acquired a new limited partnership interest for $7.3 million in a 400 unit, multifamily community in Denver, Colorado; and · acquired a new limited partnership interest for $2.9 million in a 168 unit, multifamily community in Clark County, Nevada. Investment Objectives Our overall investment objectives, in their relative order of importance are: · to preserve and protect investors capital investments; · to generate distributable cash to our stockholders; · to realize growth in the value of our investments within four to six years of the termination of the offering; and · to enable investors to realize a return on their investment by beginning the process of liquidation and distribution cash or listing our shares on a national securities exchange within four to six years of termination of the Initial Public Offering. Investment Policies Our investment strategy is designed to provide our stockholders with a diversified portfolio of investments in high quality multifamily investments. We intend to primarily invest in, acquire and operate multifamily communities, with a particular focus on using multiple strategies to acquire investments in high quality multifamily communities that produce stabilized rental income. We will invest in and acquire a blended portfolio consisting of “core,” stabilized income generating assets, assets that may benefit from enhancement or repositioning and development assets for stabilization to retain as core assets generating income with potential capital appreciation. As of December 31, 2008, all of these investments have been made in multifamily communities located in a top 50 metropolitan statistical area (“MSA”), nine development projects and one operating property. Targeted communities include existing core properties that are already well positioned and producing rental income, as well as more opportunistic properties in various phases of development, redevelopment or in need of repositioning. Further, we may invest in commercial real estate, including office buildings, shopping centers, business and industrial parks, manufacturing facilities, warehouses and distribution facilities and motel and hotel properties. We intend to make investments on our own or through Co-Investment Ventures. We may invest in real estate-related securities, including securities issued by other real estate companies, either for investment or in change of control transactions completed on a negotiated basis or otherwise. We also may originate or invest in commercial mortgage-backed securities, mortgage, bridge, mezzanine or other loans and Section 1031 tenant-in-common interests (including those issued by programs sponsored by 5 Table of Contents Behringer Harvard Holdings, LLC), or in entities that make investments similar to the foregoing. Although we intend to primarily invest in real estate assets located in the United States, in the future, we may make investments in real estate assets located outside the United States. As of December 31, 2008, we have not made any international investments. We will not make international investments until all of our non-independent directors and one of our independent directors have at least three years of relevant experience acquiring and managing such international investments. As part of our long-term investment strategy to acquire high quality multifamily communities, as of December 31, 2008, we have made substantially all of our real estate investments by investing in Co-Investment Ventures. We believe the strategy will allow us to increase the number of investments thereby providing greater risk diversification and to participate with greater economic interest in larger real estate investments thereby providing greater access to high quality investment opportunities. To accomplish this strategy, we intend to enter into additional Co-Investment Ventures which invest in mortgage, mezzanine or other loans, equity interests, or other co-ownership arrangements to acquire, develop or improve properties with third parties or certain affiliates of our advisor, including the real estate limited partnerships and REITs sponsored by affiliates of our advisor. Investments in mezzanine and mortgage loans generally can provide higher current income than equity investments in development real estate projects. Accordingly, we expect to employ a loan strategy primarily during the development phase of the projects, generally lasting one to three years. In certain cases we may have the option of converting our loan investment into an equity position, where our reported earnings may initially decrease upon conversion, but stabilize as the completed project is leased up. We would attempt to realize value appreciate upon sale of the property. We believe this combination of loan and equity investments can lead to higher average returns and a higher-quality portfolio over the longer term. As of December 31, 2008, loan investments in development projects through Co-Investment Ventures represent a substantial portion of our total investment portfolio. Current market conditions may provide us with near-term opportunities for investments in core properties, which are producing rental income where projecting occupancy and rental rates is more quantifiable and financing is available at satisfactory terms. Investments in development or redevelopment projects will depend on securing construction on satisfactory terms and underwriting assumptions which include realistic assessments of current rental rates and occupancies. These may be structured as Co-Investment Ventures or wholly owned investments. We expect to negotiate terms, particularly purchase price and financing terms, and in the case of equity investments, preferred returns and subordinations with respect to other equity holders. There is no assurance that we will be able to acquire new investments on these terms. In the current economic environment, where both debt and equity capital has become scarce, many owners of real estate require additional capital funding, often in order to remove or reduce a construction loan, mezzanine loan, other loan or equity component of a project. We will seek to acquire interests in multifamily communities by recapitalizing their capital structures in ways that affords us an advantaged, first-position priority return relative to other investors in the project. In this environment, we envision the ability to provide debt and equity investment capital to recapitalizations on terms that favor us over existing investors in the project as to our percentage ownership and as to preferred current returns and preferred returns of invested capital. We will look to acquire completed and stabilized multifamily communities that generate attractive current returns and that we believe will also generate a competitive growth component for total returns. To date, one of our Co-Investment Ventures, Johns Creek Walk, was of this type. If current economic conditions persist, we expect that the lack of capital will enable us to acquire more of these types of assets that meet our investment criteria and are being sold by distressed sellers. When appropriate, we may also incorporate into our investment portfolio value-added multifamily communities that have either been mismanaged or otherwise have not realized what we believe to be full appreciation and income-generation potential. Generally, we would make capital improvements or seek to aesthetically improve the asset and its amenities, increase rents, and stabilize occupancy with the goal of adding an attractive increase in yield and improving total returns. Co-Investment Ventures As of December 31, 2008, substantially all of our real estate investments have been conducted through Co-Investment Ventures. As of December 31, 2008 all of our unconsolidated joint ventures have been with Behringer Harvard Master Partnership I LP (“Behringer Harvard Master Partnership I”) in which we are the manager. The 1% general partner of Behringer Harvard Master Partnership I is Behringer Harvard Institutional GP LP, a related party that is indirectly owned by our sponsor, Behringer Harvard Holdings and the 99% limited partner is an unaffiliated social work sector pension fund based in The Netherlands, Stichting Pensioenfonds Zorg en Welijn (“PGGM” unless by its context “PGGM” also will include the 1% general partner interest). For each of our co-investments we have established a separate joint venture (“BHMP CO-JV”) to invest in individual projects. 6 Table of Contents Each individual operating property or development project has established one or more separate legal entities for the sole purpose of obtaining legally separated financing, investments in and holding its respective operating property or development project. The collective group of each operating property’s or development project’s separate legal entities is referred to herein as a “Property Entity.” Each Property Entity has been legally separated and is not co-mingled or cross-collateralized with any other Property Entity; however, we refer to the collective group herein as the “Property Entities.” As of December 31, 2008, nine of our ten BHMP CO-JVs have made investments in mezzanine or mortgage loans in development, multifamily real estate projects. These BHMP CO-JVs are dependent on the borrowers to pay contractual interest and other obligations. In addition, as of December 31, 2008, seven of our ten BHMP CO-JVs have made equity investments where one Property Entity is an operating multifamily project. These BHMP CO-JVs are dependent on individual multifamily tenants to pay contractual rents. We are not aware of any borrowers or tenants who will not be able to pay their contractual obligations, which if not paid would have a material impact on a BHMP CO-JV or our results of operations. See “