Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business and an investment in our securities are subject to a variety of risks. The following risk factors describe the most significant events, facts or circumstances that could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to implement our business plan, and the market price for our securities. Many of these events are outside of our control. If any of these risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operation may be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and investors in our common stock could lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to Our Business The markets we serve are subject to seasonality and cyclical demand, which could harm our business and make it difficult to project long-term performance. Demand for our products depends in part upon the level of capital and maintenance expenditures of our customers and end users. These expenditures historically have been cyclical in nature and vulnerable to economic downturns. Decreased capital and maintenance spending by our customers could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products and our business, financial condition and results of operations. In particular, an economic slowdown in the domestic China economy may result in reduced orders for PHEs from the steel processing and petrochemical sectors and lower orders for PHE Units from the HVAC sector. In response to inflationary concerns, the PRC government instituted tightened fiscal policies in 2011 that contributed to a general slowdown in many sectors of China’s economy and restricted bank lending practices. Accordingly, many state-owned enterprises in China, including real estate developers, encountered difficulties in 2011 in obtaining grants from the PRC government and faced an extended bank loan application process, both of which typically are used to finance the purchase of our products. If the PRC government continues its deflationary policies and efforts to stabilize economic growth in China, such disruptions may continue to adversely impact the capital needs of our customers, which, in turn, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. The historically cyclical nature of the demand for our products limits our ability to make accurate long-term predictions about our performance, however. Changing domestic and international economic and political conditions may also reduce the willingness of our customers and prospective customers to purchase our products and services. Furthermore, sales of heat exchangers and related systems may fluctuate significantly due to the seasonal nature of central heating services in the PRC because the equipment used in residential buildings must be delivered and installed prior to the beginning of the heating season in late fall, which occurs during the third and fourth calendar quarters in China. To date, we have not been adversely affected by these seasonality trends and, given the current demand visibility, we do not currently foresee weakening in the demand for our products going forward in the next year. However, the seasonality of our business may result in significant operational challenges to our production and inventory control functions. Our accounts receivables remain outstanding for a significant period of time, which has a negative impact on our cash flow and liquidity. Our agreements with our customers generally provide that 30% of the purchase price is due upon the placement of an order, 30% upon delivery and 30% upon installation and acceptance of the equipment after customer testing. As a common practice in the heating manufacturing business in China, payment of the final 10% of the purchase price is due no later than the termination date of the standard warranty period, which ranges from 3 to 24 months from the acceptance date. We record revenue and corresponding accounts receivable when products are delivered to our customers, and for PHE Units, when customer acceptance occurs following delivery. Payments received prior to product delivery, or customer acceptance for PHE Units, are recorded as unearned revenue. We may experience payment delays from time to time, which historically have ranged from 1 to 3 months from the due date. While these payment delays are common in the heating manufacturing industry in China, such delays cause capital to be tied up in receivables, which may result in pressure on our cash flows and liquidity. In 2011, we had accounts receivable turnover of 1.38, with days sales outstanding of 264 and inventory turnover of 1.11. In 2010, we had accounts receivable turnover of 2.98, with days sales outstanding of 123 and inventory turnover of 4.26. The low accounts receivable turnover and high days outstanding in 2011 is due to an unexpected abandonment of projects, cancelation of orders and delays in the performance of PHE and PHE Unit contracts from certain state-owned customers due to the tightened fiscal policy in China during 2011. The low inventory turnover in 2011 compared to 2010 was due to increased raw materials inventory on hand for the readiness of the high production season during the second half of 2011 and increased finished goods inventory resulting from orders that have been delayed or canceled. While historically our collections have been reasonably assured, delays in collections and the significant period of time our accounts receivable remain outstanding may negatively impact our cash flow and liquidity 11 Table of Contents We acquire most of the components for the manufacture of our products from a limited number of suppliers, and if we are unable to obtain these components, we would experience manufacturing delays and our financial results could be adversely affected. We acquire most of the components for the manufacture of our products from a limited number of suppliers. To manufacture our products, these components must be available when needed, at the right level of quality and at the right price. If we are unable to obtain these components accordingly, we would experience delays in manufacturing our products and our financial results could be adversely affected. Suppliers of some of these components require us to place orders with significant lead-time to assure supply in accordance with our requirements. Certain of these suppliers are currently the sole source of one or more components upon which we are dependent and alternative sources would not be available for those components unless we were to redesign our products. Other components could be obtained from alternate suppliers without redesign, but only at higher prices than we currently pay or for delivery later than required by our production schedule. We maintain a relatively small inventory of component parts for resale and our parts services business would suffer if the supply of replacement parts was reduced or terminated by our suppliers. If suppliers are not able to provide these critical components on the dates and at the prices scheduled, we may not be able to manufacture our products promptly and cost-effectively to meet customer orders, which could harm our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our products. We are a major purchaser of certain goods and raw materials that we use in the manufacturing process of our products, and price changes for the commodities we depend on may adversely affect our profitability. Our profitability depends upon the margin between the cost to us of certain goods used in the manufacturing process, such as plates, pumps, water tanks, sensors, controlling systems and other raw materials, as well as our fabrication costs associated with converting such goods and raw materials compared to the selling price of our products, and the overall supply of raw materials. We have experienced and anticipate continued fluctuation in raw material costs as a result of world economic conditions, such as the price of stainless steel used to produce plates for our PHEs and PHE Units. We monitor the commodities markets for pricing trends and changes, but we do not engage in hedging transactions to protect against raw material fluctuations. Instead, we attempt to mitigate the short-term risks of price swings by purchasing raw materials in advance based on production needs and projected sales. It is our intention to base the selling prices of our products upon the associated raw materials costs to us, which normally account for approximately 80% of our cost of sales. However, we may not be able to pass all increases in raw material costs and ancillary acquisition costs associated with taking possession of the raw materials through to our customers. Although we are currently able to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials, it is impossible to predict future availability or cost. With the rapid growth of China’s economy, the demand for certain raw materials is great while the supply may be more limited. This may affect our ability to secure the necessary raw materials in a cost-effective manner for production of our products at the volume of purchase orders that we anticipate receiving. The inability to offset price increases of raw materials by sufficient product price increases, and our inability to obtain raw materials, would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may experience material disruptions to our manufacturing operations in China that could result in material delays, quality control issues, increased costs and loss of business opportunities, which may negatively impact our sales and financial results. We rely on our manufacturing facilities in China to operate our business and produce our products. While we seek to operate our facilities in compliance with applicable rules and regulations and take measures to minimize the risks of disruption at our facilities, a material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and negatively impact our financial results. Any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including: prolonged power failures; equipment failures; disruptions in the transportation infrastructure including roads, bridges, railroad tracks; fires, floods, earthquakes or other catastrophes; and other operational problems. Our future growth strategy includes an expansion of manufacturing capacity to meet anticipated demand for our existing and new products. Any projects undertaken by us to increase such capacity may not be constructed on the anticipated timetable or within budget. We may also experience quality control issues as we implement these manufacturing upgrades and ramp up production. Any such material disruption may prevent us from shipping our products on a timely basis, reduce our sales and market share and negatively impact our financial results. We may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals for our products, which could result in a decrease in clients and revenue, unexpected expenses and loss of market share. Some of our products are subject to PRC and international regulations related to the heating manufacturing industry. Manufacturers of heat meters and heat pumps in China require licenses issued by the PRC government to produce and sell these products in the domestic market. The Safety Bureau overseeing heat meter and heat pump production conducts site visits and inspections of documents on a periodic basis to verify adherence to the standards. PHEs and PHE Units are not subject to material regulation by the PRC government or other national agencies, but many purchasers of these products in industries utilizing high temperatures or pressure in the production process prefer to source from manufactures that have obtained a PRC National Safety Certification for their PHE products. The European Commission has promulgated standards, such as EN 378 Safety and Environmental Requirements, for heat pumps and products sold in the European Union must carry CE marking, indicating conformity with such requirements. As of December 31, 2011, we have no regulatory approvals pending for our products or that we need to obtain to conduct our business. We received our licenses to manufacture and sell heat meters and heat pumps in China in 2005 and 2008, respectively, which we continue to maintain through renewals. We seek to manufacture all products to customer specifications and we believe that our products meet all currently applicable national test standards. Any failure to manufacture and deliver products in compliance with all applicable standards and regulations for the markets in which our products are distributed may subject us to fines, penalties or business interruptions and could result in a decrease in clients or loss of market share. In addition, new or revised standards and regulations applicable to our products could require us to redesign existing and planned products, acquire new manufacturing equipment or incur other significant expenses. If we are not able to obtain regulatory approvals for our products based on the applicable standards and regulations, it could have material and adverse effects on our business, financial condition and prospects. 12 Table of Contents We cannot be certain that our product innovations will continue or that our technology will continue to satisfy the changing needs of our customers, which could result in a decrease in clients and revenue, unexpected expenses and loss of market share. We believe that our past performance has been based on, and our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to continue to improve our existing products through product innovation and to develop, market and produce new products. We cannot assure you we will be successful in introducing, marketing and producing any new products or product innovations, or that we will develop and introduce in a timely manner innovations to our existing products which satisfy customer needs or achieve market acceptance. Our failure to develop new products and introduce them successfully and in a timely manner could harm our ability to grow our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. As with any technology, including the technology of our current and proposed products, there are risks that the technology may not successfully address all of our customers’ needs. While we have already established successful relationships with our customers, their needs may change or vary. This may affect the ability of our present or proposed products to address all of our customers’ ultimate technology needs in an economically feasible manner. Our success depends upon our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changes in the heating manufacturing industry. If we fail to identify and respond to these changes, our sales could decline and we could lose clients and market share, any of which could materially harm our business. Furthermore, if we are unable to continue to meet our clients’ needs with our current product lines, we may be required to redesign existing and planned products, acquire new manufacturing equipment or incur other significant expenses. Our relationship with Sondex has substantially contributed to our business and its growth, and if this relationship were to terminate, our business and operations could be adversely impacted. We are an authorized dealer of Sondex PHE plates in China. Sondex is one of the world’s leading PHE and PHE plate manufacturers. We sell PHEs in China under our brands or on demand under the Sondex brand, while our PHE Units are sold only under our own brands. We believe our ability to provide Sondex-branded PHEs has contributed to our reputation for high quality products. Prior to our acquisition of Siping Beifang in 2009, we sourced all of our PHE plates, important raw elements used in both PHEs and PHE Units, from Sondex. However, our acquisition of Siping Beifang, along with our internal research and development efforts, enable us to produce our own plates for our heat exchangers, which has reduced our reliance on Sondex-supplied plates. We cannot assure you that our products will be as well received in the marketplace as products sold under the Sondex brand, or that we will be able to produce sufficient quantities to meet demand. If our relationship with Sondex were to terminate, we would be required to manufacture plates ourselves and procure plates from other third party sources, of which we believe there are several alternate suppliers that meet our volume and quality standards. Currently, we cannot guarantee our ability to manufacture sufficient plates or that we will be able to secure a supply of plates from third party sources on acceptable terms and in a timely fashion. Accordingly, termination of our Sondex relationship may present risks to our business, revenues and operations until we secure alternate and comparable sources of supply. We may not be able to keep pace with rapid technological changes and competition in our industry, which could adversely impact our business, revenues and operations. We believe we have hired or engaged personnel and outside consultants who have the experience and ability necessary to help us keep pace with advances in technology in the heating manufacturing industry. While we continue to seek out and develop “next generation” technology through our research and development efforts, there is no guarantee we will be able to keep pace with technological developments and market demands in this evolving industry and market. In addition, our industry is highly competitive. Although we believe we have developed strategic relationships that will assist us to best penetrate the domestic China market, we face competition from other manufacturers of products similar to our products. Some of our competitors’ advantages over us in the areas of products, marketing and services include: substantially greater revenues and financial resources; stronger brand names and consumer recognition; the capacity to leverage marketing expenditures across a broader portfolio of products; pre-existing relationships with potential customers; more resources to make acquisitions; lower labor and development costs; and broader geographic presence. Furthermore, we may experience delays in bringing new products to market, due to design, manufacturing or distribution problems. Any such delays could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively and may adversely affect our relationship with our customers. If we are unable to keep pace with the rapid technological changes and competition in our industry and market, our business, revenues and operations could be adversely impacted. We will face different market dynamics and competition if we expand our market to other countries. In some international markets, our future competitors would have greater brand recognition and broader distribution than we have. We may not be as successful as our competitors in generating revenues in international markets due to our inability to provide products that are attractive to the markets in other countries, the lack of recognition of our brand and other factors. As a result, any international expansion efforts could be more costly and less profitable than our efforts in the domestic market in China, and could divert our management’s attention away from our business in China. 13 Table of Contents Our products may contain defects, which if subject to product liability and warranty claims, could adversely affect our reputation and cause us to incur significant costs. Due to the high pressures and temperatures at which many of our products are used, and the fact that some of our products are relied upon by our customers or end users in their facilities or operations, or are manufactured for relatively broad consumer use, we face an inherent risk of exposure to claims in the event that the failure, use or misuse of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury, property damage or economic loss. We believe we meet or exceed existing professional specification standards recognized or required in the industries in which we operate. Despite testing, however, defects may be found in our existing or new products. If we deliver products with defects, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our products could be harmed. Any such defects could cause us to undertake a product recall program, which would result in significant return and exchange costs, re-engineering costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from product development efforts and cause significant problems with customer relations and business reputation. We have been subject to product liability and warranty claims in the past, none of which has had a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations, and we may be subject to claims in the future. Although we currently maintain product liability coverage, which we believe is adequate for the continued operation of our business, such insurance may become difficult to obtain or may become unobtainable in the future on terms acceptable to us and may not cover warranty claims. A successful product liability claim or series of claims against us, including one or more consumer claims purporting to constitute class actions, in excess of our insurance coverage or a significant warranty claim or series of claims against us could materially decrease our liquidity and impair our financial condition. Our business could be subject to environmental liabilities in China, which could result in our incurring significant remediation costs, fines and loss of our business license. As is the case with manufacturers of similar products, we use certain hazardous substances in our operations in China. Currently, our business is subject to the Environmental Protection Law of the PRC as well as other national and local laws in China regarding pollutant discharge, air, water and noise pollution. Although we believe we are in compliance in all material respects with the applicable PRC environmental laws and regulations, if it is determined that we are in violation of these regulations, we could be subject to financial penalties as well as the loss of the business licenses of one or more of our subsidiaries in China. Furthermore, if the national or local government in China adopts more stringent environmental regulations, we may incur significant costs in complying with such regulations. If we fail to comply with present or future environmental regulations, we may be required to pay substantial fines and remediation costs, suspend production or cease operations and may be subject to adverse publicity. We currently do not incur any material costs in connection with our compliance with the applicable PRC environmental laws. However, the risk of environmental liability and charges associated with maintaining compliance with PRC environmental laws is inherent in the nature of our business, and there is no assurance that material environmental liabilities and compliance charges will not arise in the future. Our insurance coverage in China may be inadequate to protect us from potential losses. The insurance industry in China is in its early stage of development and the business interruption insurance and the product liability insurance available currently in China offers limited coverage compared to that offered in many other countries, especially in the U.S. Any business disruption or natural disaster could result in substantial costs and a diversion of resources, which would have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business operations in China, particularly our production facilities in Shenyang, involve risks and hazards that could result in damage to, or destruction of, property and machinery, personal injury, business interruption and possible legal liability. We currently carry property and casualty insurance for our buildings, plant and equipment, but cannot assure you that the coverage will be adequate to fully replace damage to any of the foregoing. Should any natural catastrophes such as earthquakes, floods or any acts of terrorism occur where our primary operations are located and most of our employees are based, or elsewhere, we might suffer not only significant property damage, but also loss of revenues due to interruptions in our business operations. We are unable to acquire product liability insurance in China because it is not currently available for our product lines, but we do maintain product liability coverage in Germany that we believe is adequate for the continued operation of our business in Europe, but such insurance may become difficult to obtain or may become unobtainable in the future on terms acceptable to us and may not cover warranty claims. A successful product liability claim or series of claims against us, including one or more consumer claims purporting to constitute class actions, in excess of our insurance coverage or a significant warranty claim or series of claims against us could materially decrease our liquidity and impair our financial condition. The occurrence of a significant event for which we are not fully insured or indemnified, or the failure of a party to meet its underwriting or indemnification obligations, could materially and adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable. 14 Table of Contents If we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified personnel, the quality of our services may decline and our business may be adversely impacted. We rely heavily on the expertise, experience and continued services of our senior management, including our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Jun Wang. Loss of his services could adversely affect our ability to achieve our business objectives. Mr. Wang is a key factor in our success at developing and introducing new products and establishing new customer relationships because of his industry experience and reputation. The continued development of our business depends upon his continued employment. We have entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Wang, which contains provisions prohibiting competition with us should he leave our employ. We believe our future success will depend upon our ability to retain Mr. Wang and other key employees and our ability to attract and retain other skilled personnel. The rapid growth of the economy in China has caused intense competition for qualified personnel. We cannot guarantee that any employee will remain employed by us for any period of time or that we will be able to attract, train or retain qualified personnel in the future. Such loss of personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and company. Qualified employees periodically are in great demand and may be unavailable in the time frame required to satisfy our customers’ requirements. There is no assurance we will be able to attract and retain sufficient numbers of highly skilled employees in the future. The loss of personnel or our inability to hire or retain sufficient personnel at competitive rates could impair the growth of our business. Our bank accounts in China are not insured or protected against loss, and the failure of any bank in which we deposit our funds could affect our ability to continue in business. We maintain our cash in China with various national banks in China. These cash accounts are not insured or otherwise protected against loss. Should any bank holding our cash deposits become insolvent, or if we are otherwise unable to withdraw funds, we would lose the cash on deposit with that particular bank. Depending upon the amount of cash we maintain in a bank that fails, our inability to have access to such cash deposits could impair our operations, and, if we are not able to access funds to pay our suppliers, employees and other creditors, we may be unable to continue in business. We may need additional capital to execute our business plan and fund operations and may not be able to obtain such capital on acceptable terms or at all. In connection with the ongoing development and expansion of our business, we may incur significant capital and operational expenses. We believe that we can increase our sales and net income by implementing a growth strategy that focuses on increasing sales of our products in China by targeting high growth end markets and expanding sales of heat pumps in China and Europe. Management anticipates that our existing capital resources, cash flows from operations, collection of our accounts receivable and proceeds from recent short-term loans will satisfy the liquidity requirements of our business for the next 12 months. However, if available funds are not sufficient to meet our plans for expansion or current operating expenses, our plans include pursuing alternative financing arrangements, including bank loans based on our good credit rating or funds raised through offerings of our equity or debt, if and when we determine such offerings are required. Our ability to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms or at all is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: · investors’ perceptions of, and demand for, companies in our industry; · investors’ perceptions of, and demand for, companies operating in China; · conditions of the U.S. and other capital markets in which we may seek to raise funds; · our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows; · governmental regulation of foreign investment in companies in particular countries; · economic, political and other conditions in the U.S., China and other countries; and · governmental policies relating to foreign currency borrowings. There is no assurance we will be successful in locating a suitable financing transaction in a timely fashion or at all. In addition, there is no assurance we will obtain the capital we require by any other means. Future financings through equity investments are likely to be dilutive to our existing shareholders. Also, the terms of securities we may issue in future capital transactions may be more favorable for our new investors. Newly-issued securities may include preferences or superior voting rights, be combined with the issuance of warrants or other derivative securities, or be the issuances of incentive awards under equity employee incentive plans, which may have additional dilutive effects. Furthermore, we may incur substantial costs in pursuing future capital and financing, including investment banking fees, legal fees, accounting fees, printing and distribution expenses and other costs. We may also be required to recognize non-cash expenses in connection with certain securities we may issue, such as convertible notes and warrants, which will adversely impact our financial condition. 15 Table of Contents If we cannot raise additional funds on favorable terms or at all, we may not be able to carry out all or parts of our strategy to maintain our growth and competitiveness or to fund our operations. If the amount of capital we are able to raise from financing activities, together with our revenues from operations, is not sufficient to satisfy our capital needs, even to the extent that we reduce our operations accordingly, we may be required to cease operations. We may not be able to protect our technology and other proprietary rights adequately, which could adversely affect our competitive position and reduce the value of our products and brands, and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights may be costly. We attempt to strengthen and differentiate our product lines by developing new and innovative product designs and functionality. As a result, our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important assets to our business. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and protect our products, methods, processes and other technologies, to preserve our trade secrets and to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties in China and abroad. Despite our efforts to preserve our intellectual property rights, any of the following occurrences may reduce the value of our intellectual property: · Issued patents and trademarks may not provide us with any competitive advantages; · Our efforts to protect our proprietary rights may not be effective in preventing misappropriation of our intellectual property; · Our efforts may not prevent the development and design by others of products or technologies similar to or competitive with, or superior to those we develop; or · Another party may obtain a blocking patent and we would need to either obtain a license or design around the patent in order to continue to offer the contested feature or service in our products. Effective protection of our intellectual property rights may be unavailable or limited in China or certain other countries. Policing the unauthorized use of our proprietary technology can be difficult and expensive. Litigation might be necessary to protect our intellectual property rights, which may be costly and may divert our management’s attention away from our core business. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that litigation would result in an outcome favorable to us. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights adequately, it would have a negative impact on our operations. We may be subject to claims that we have infringed the proprietary rights of others, which could require us to obtain a license or change our designs. Although we do not believe any of our products infringe upon the proprietary rights of others, there is no assurance that infringement or invalidity claims, or claims for indemnification resulting from infringement claims, will not be asserted or prosecuted against us or that any such assertions or prosecutions will not have a material adverse effect on our business. Regardless of whether any such claims are valid or can be asserted successfully, defending against such claims could cause us to incur significant costs and could divert resources away from our other activities. In addition, assertion of infringement claims could result in injunctions that prevent us from distributing our products. If any claims or actions are asserted against us, we may seek to obtain a license to the intellectual property rights that are in dispute. Such a license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all, which could force us to change our designs. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately. Any inability to report and file our financial results accurately and timely could harm our business and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. We are required to establish and maintain internal controls over financial reporting, disclosure controls and procedures and to comply with other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the rules promulgated by the SEC. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, cannot guarantee our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all possible errors. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no system of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the possibility that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and subject to simple error or mistake. Furthermore, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be detected. Our inability or failure to report and file our financial results accurately and timely could harm our business and the trading price of our common stock. 16 Table of Contents Our management carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2011, because of one identified material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our financial statements will not be prevented, or detected and corrected on a timely basis. The material weakness identified relates to the lack of sufficient internal accounting personnel with appropriate levels of knowledge, experience and training in generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S., or U.S. GAAP, for the preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Furthermore, our management concluded that, as of December 31, 2011, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective because of this identified material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. See “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.” Our Board of Directors and management are evaluating remediation measures that we will undertake to address this material weakness and will continue this evaluation in order to implement a comprehensive remediation plan. Until such time as we hire qualified accounting staff or train our current accounting staff with the requisite U.S. GAAP experience, however, it is unlikely we will be able to remediate this material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. Our accounting personnel who are primarily responsible for the preparation and supervision of the preparation of our financial statements under U.S. GAAP have limited relevant education and training in U.S. GAAP and SEC rules and regulations pertaining to financial reporting, which could impact our ability to prepare our financial statements and convert our books and records to U.S. GAAP. Our operations principally are in China and we have maintained our books and records in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the PRC, or PRC GAAP. Our accounting personnel in the PRC who have the primary responsibilities of preparing and supervising the preparation of financial statements under U.S. GAAP have limited relevant education and training in U.S. GAAP and related SEC rules and regulations. As such, they may be unable to identify potential accounting and disclosure issues that may arise upon the conversion of our books and records from PRC GAAP to U.S. GAAP, which could affect our ability to prepare our financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We have taken steps to ensure that our financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, including our hiring of a U.S. accounting firm to work with our PRC accounting personnel and management to convert our books and records to U.S. GAAP and prepare our financial statements. We implemented an internal audit department and retained an outside internal control consultant for risk assessment, documentation of process-level and entity-level controls, internal control testing and evaluation of deficiencies. In addition, our annual financial statements are audited by an independent auditor for compliance with U.S. GAAP and to ensure that all necessary and appropriate adjustments from PRC GAAP to U.S. GAAP have been made. However, the measures we have taken may not be sufficient to mitigate the foregoing risks associated with the limited education and training of our accounting personnel in U.S. GAAP and related SEC rules and regulations. We are a holding company that depends on cash flow from our wholly owned subsidiaries to meet our obligations, and any inability of our subsidiaries to pay us dividends or make other payments to us when needed could disrupt or have a negative impact on our business. After our acquisition of Taiyu in 2008, we became a holding company with no material assets other than the ownership interests of our subsidiaries through which we conduct operations. We rely on dividends paid by our subsidiaries for our cash needs, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, to service any debt we may incur and to pay our operating expenses. China has currency and capital transfer regulations that require us to comply with complex regulations for the movement of capital. PRC regulations currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in China. Our PRC subsidiaries also are required to set aside at least 10% of net income after taxes based on PRC accounting standards each year to statutory surplus reserves until the cumulative amount of such reserves reaches 50% of registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. Our PRC subsidiaries also may allocate a portion of their after-tax profits to their staff welfare and bonus funds, which may not be distributed to equity owners except in the event of liquidation. Furthermore, if any of our subsidiaries incur debt, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Accordingly, if our subsidiaries are unable to pay us dividends and make other payments to us when needed because of regulatory restrictions or otherwise, we may be materially and adversely limited in our ability to make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends or otherwise fund and conduct our business. 17 Table of Contents Risks Related to Doing Business in China Inflation in China could negatively affect our profitability and growth. The rapid growth of China’s economy has been uneven among economic sectors and geographic regions of the country and has been fueled over the last three years by a large amount of debt issuances. China’s economy grew at an annual rate of 9.2% in 2011, as measured by the year-over-year change in GDP according to the National Bureau of Statistics of China, or the NBS. Rapid economic growth and less restrictive monetary policies can lead to growth in the money supply and rising inflation. According to the NBS, the annual inflation rate in China, as measured by the year-over-year change in consumer price index, was 5.4% in 2011. If prices for our products and services fail to rise at a rate sufficient to compensate for the increased costs of supplies, such as raw materials, due to inflation, it may have an adverse effect on our profitability. Additionally, customers generally purchase our products as part of their capital budget. Our business for our products is therefore dependent in part upon the economic health of our customers and our customers’ industries. Any change in monetary policy or economic slowdown can affect all purchasers and manufacturers of capital equipment, and we cannot assure you that our business will not be significantly impaired as a result. To control inflation in the past, the PRC government has imposed controls on bank reserve requirement ratios, bank credits, limits on loans for fixed assets and restrictions on state bank lending. In particular, in response to inflationary concerns, the PRC government instituted tightened fiscal policies in 2011 that contributed to a general slowdown in many sectors of China’s economy and restricted bank lending practices. Accordingly, many state-owned enterprises in China, including real estate developers, encountered difficulties in 2011 in obtaining grants from the PRC government and faced an extended bank loan application process, both of which typically are used to finance the purchase of our products. If the PRC government continues its deflationary policies and efforts to stabilize economic growth in China, such disruptions may continue to adversely impact the capital needs of our customers, which, in turn, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In addition, the People’s Bank of China, or the PBOC, which is the central bank of the PRC, has effected several increases in interest rates in response to inflationary concerns in China’s economy. The implementation of such policies may further impede future economic growth. If the PBOC continues to raise interest rates, economic activity in China could further slow and, in turn, materially increase our costs and reduce demand for our products and services. Changes in China’s political and economic policies could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and adversely affect our business. Substantially all of our manufacturing and productive assets are located in China and a significant percentage of our revenue is derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our results of operations and prospects are subject to the economic, political and legal developments in China. While China’s economy has experienced significant growth in the past twenty years, such growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures may have a negative effect on us. For example, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected by PRC government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations. In recent years, the PRC government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform and the reduction of state ownership of productive assets, and the establishment of corporate governance in business enterprises; however, a substantial portion of productive assets in China are still owned by the PRC government. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. It also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, the control of payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, the setting of monetary policy, the control of the housing and real estate market and the provision of preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth and level of capital expenditures in China, which in turn could lead to reduced demand for our products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, changes in policies, laws and regulations or in their interpretation or the imposition of confiscatory taxation, restrictions on currency conversion, restrictions or prohibitions on dividend payments to shareholders, or devaluations of currency could cause a decline in the price of our common stock. We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in China, which could affect our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely. Historically, China has not adopted an international style of management or financial reporting concepts and practices, nor modern banking, computer and other control systems. We may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to work in China. As a result of these factors, we may experience difficulty in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices for our subsidiaries in China that meet international standards. 18 Table of Contents If relations between the U.S. and China worsen, our business could be adversely affected and investors may be unwilling to hold or buy our stock and our stock price may decrease. At various times during recent years, the U.S. and China have had significant disagreements over political and economic issues. Controversies may arise in the future between these two countries. Any political or trade controversies between the U.S. and China, whether or not directly related to our business, could reduce the price of our common stock. The nature and application of many laws of China create an uncertain environment for business operations and they could have a negative effect on us. The legal system in China is a civil law system. Unlike the common law system, the civil law system is based on written statutes in which decided legal cases have little value as precedents. In 1979, China began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and has since introduced many laws and regulations to provide general guidance on economic and business practices in China and to regulate foreign investment. Progress has been made in the promulgation of laws and regulations dealing with economic and commercial matters, but these recently enacted laws and regulations may not cover all aspects of business activities in China sufficiently. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us. In addition, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, there may be certain instances when we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until some time after such violation. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. The PRC government has enacted some laws and regulations dealing with matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. Our ability to enforce commercial claims or to resolve commercial disputes under these laws and regulations is unpredictable, however, because the implementation, interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations is limited and, given their relative newness, involve uncertainties. For example, contracts governed by PRC law tend to contain less detail than those under U.S. law and generally are not as comprehensive in defining the rights and obligations of the contracting parties. Consequently, contracts in China are more vulnerable to disputes and legal challenges than those in the U.S. In addition, contract interpretation and enforcement in China is not as developed as in the U.S., and the result of any contract dispute is subject to significant uncertainties. We currently are not subject to any contract dispute, but we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to future contract disputes with our suppliers, franchisees and other customers under contracts governed by PRC law, and if such disputes arise, we cannot assure you that we will prevail. Furthermore, the political, governmental and judicial systems in China sometimes are impacted by corruption. There is no assurance we will be able to obtain recourse in any legal disputes with the suppliers, customers or other parties with whom we conduct business, if desired, through China’s developing and sometimes corrupt judicial systems. Any rights we may have under PRC law to specific performance or to seek an injunction are severely limited, and without a means of recourse by virtue of the PRC legal system, we may be unable to prevent these situations from occurring. The occurrence of any such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. It will be extremely difficult to acquire jurisdiction and enforce liabilities against our officers, directors and assets based in China. As our executive officers and several of our directors, including the Chairman of our Board of Directors, are citizens of the PRC, it may be difficult, if not impossible, to acquire jurisdiction over these persons in the event a lawsuit is initiated against us or our officers and directors by a shareholder or group of shareholders in the U.S. Also, because many of our operating subsidiaries and assets are located in China, it may be extremely difficult or impossible for individuals to access those assets to enforce judgments rendered against us or our directors or executive offices by U.S. courts. In addition, the courts in China may not permit the enforcement of judgments arising out of U.S. federal and state corporate, securities or similar laws. Accordingly, U.S. investors may not be able to enforce judgments against us for violation of U.S. securities laws. Fluctuation of the Renminbi and Euro may affect our financial condition and the value of our securities. Although we use the USD for financial reporting purposes, transactions effected by our subsidiaries in China are denominated in RMB and those by our subsidiary in Germany are denominated in EUR. The value of the RMB and EUR fluctuates and are subject to changes in the political and economic conditions in China and Europe, respectively. In particular, from June 2008 to June 2010, the RMB was pegged to the USD, but it has since been managed more flexibly. Because the PBOC regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate, the RMB may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the USD in the medium to long term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future the PRC authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the RMB exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign exchange market. 19 Table of Contents Future movements in the exchange rate of the RMB could adversely affect our financial condition as substantially all of our operations and sales are transacted in RMB and we may suffer financial losses when transferring money raised outside of China into the country or paying vendors for services performed outside of China. Historically, we have not engaged in hedging activities to mitigate this risk of fluctuating exchange rates and have no current intention of doing so. Moreover, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the USD and RMB will affect our financial results reported in USD terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business, financial condition or results of operations. The value of our common stock likewise will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between the USD and RMB, and between those currencies and other currencies in which our sales may be denominated. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we may issue in the future that will be exchanged into USD and earnings from, and the value of, any USD-denominated investments we make in the future. For example, if we need to convert USD into RMB for our operational needs and the RMB appreciates against the USD at that time, our financial position, our business and the price of our common stock may be harmed. Conversely, if we decide to convert our RMB into USD for the purpose of declaring dividends on our common stock or for other business purposes and the USD appreciates against the RMB, the USD equivalent of our earnings from our subsidiaries in China would be reduced. PRC regulations relating to mergers, offshore companies and PRC shareholders, if applied to us, may limit our ability to operate our business as we see fit. PRC regulations govern the process by which we may participate in an acquisition of assets or equity interests and may make loans and direct investments to our subsidiaries in China. Depending on the structure of the transaction, these regulations require involved parties to make a series of applications and supplemental applications to various government agencies. In some instances, the application process may require the presentation of economic data concerning a transaction, including appraisals of the target business and evaluations of the acquirer, which are designed to allow the government to assess the transaction. Government approvals will have expiration dates by which a transaction must be completed and reported to the government agencies. Compliance with the new regulations is likely to be more time consuming and expensive than in the past and the government can now exert more control over the combination of two businesses. Accordingly, due to PRC regulations, our ability to engage in business combination transactions in China through our PRC subsidiaries has become significantly more complicated, time consuming and expensive, and we may not be able to negotiate transactions that are acceptable to us or sufficiently protective of our interests. Furthermore, loans and capital contributions from an offshore holding company such as us to its subsidiaries in China are subject to PRC regulations and approval. For example, loans by us to our subsidiaries in China, which are foreign-invested enterprises, to finance their activities cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with the SAFE. Similarly, the PRC Ministry of Commerce, or MOFCOM, or its local counterpart must approve any capital contribution by us to our PRC subsidiaries. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future loans or capital contributions by us to our subsidiaries. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. The RMB is currently convertible under the “current account,” which includes dividends, trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account,” which includes foreign direct investment and loans. Currently, our subsidiaries in China may purchase foreign currencies for settlement of current account transactions, including payments of dividends to us, without the approval of the SAFE. However, the relevant PRC government authorities may limit or eliminate their ability to purchase foreign currencies in the future. Since a significant amount of our future revenues will be denominated in RMB, any existing and future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize revenues generated in RMB to fund our business activities outside China that are denominated in foreign currencies. On August 29, 2008, the SAFE promulgated Circular 142, the Notice on Perfecting Practices Concerning Foreign Exchange Settlement Regarding the Capital Contribution by Foreign-invested Enterprises, to regulate the conversion by foreign-invested enterprises, or FIEs, of foreign currency into RMB by restricting how the converted RMB may be used. Circular 142 requires that RMB converted from the foreign currency-dominated capital of a FIE may only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by the applicable government authority and may not be used for equity investments within the PRC unless specifically provided for otherwise. In addition, the SAFE strengthened its oversight over the flow and use of RMB funds converted from the foreign currency-dominated capital of a FIE. The use of such RMB may not be changed without approval from the SAFE, and may not be used to repay RMB loans if the proceeds of such loans have not yet been used. These limitations could affect the ability of our subsidiaries in China to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing. 20 Table of Contents If the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or CSRC, or another PRC regulatory agency determines that its approval is required in connection with our public offerings, we may become subject to penalties. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, including the CSRC, promulgated the Regulation on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Companies by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Regulations, which became effective on September 8, 2006. The M&A Regulations, among other things, have certain provisions that require offshore special purpose vehicles, or SPVs, formed for the purpose of acquiring PRC domestic companies and controlled by PRC individuals, to obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to listing their securities on an overseas stock exchange. We believe, based on the opinion of our PRC legal counsel, the Beijing Rondos Law Firm, that while the CSRC generally has jurisdiction over overseas listings of SPVs like us, CSRC’s approval is not required for the offerings of our securities because our current corporate structure was established before the new regulation became effective. However, there remains some uncertainty as to how this regulation will be interpreted or implemented in the context of an overseas offering. If the CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency subsequently determines that its approval is required for our public offerings, we may face sanctions by the CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency. If this happens, these regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, delay or restrict the repatriation of the proceeds from our public offerings into the PRC, restrict or prohibit payment or remittance of dividends by our PRC subsidiaries to us or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our ordinary shares. We operate in the PRC through our operating entities whose foreign-investment status has been approved by the local offices of MOFCOM. If MOFCOM subsequently determines that such approval procedures have not been completely satisfied for our foreign-invested enterprises, we may lose the WFOE status of certain of our subsidiaries, which could negatively impact our business in China. Our operating entities in the PRC have received approval from their respective local offices of MOFCOM as WFOEs and foreign-invested joint ventures. We believe we have satisfied all MOFCOM approval procedures for having obtained such status, but there may be conditions subsequent to complete and maintain such status. In particular, we believe that our acquisition of Taiyu, a privately held Sino-foreign joint venture company, in 2008 was not subject to the 2006 M&A Regulations but instead the 1997 Provisions on Changes in Equity Interest of Foreign Investment Enterprises, which do not require the approval of MOFCOM’s central office in connection with the acquisition of interests in a foreign-invested entity operating in an industry not restricted or prohibited under PRC law. The meaning of many of the provisions of the M&A Regulations is still unclear, however, and PRC regulators have wide latitude in the enforcement of these and other relevant regulations. Consequently, the MOFCOM approval procedures or interpretations of its approval procedures may be different from our understanding or may change. If MOFCOM subsequently determines that we should have obtained the approval of MOFCOM’s central office for our investments in any or all of our PRC foreign-invested subsidiaries, we may need to apply for a remedial approval or waiver of such approval requirements, and may be subject to certain administrative punishments or other sanctions from PRC regulatory agencies. As a result, if we lose the WFOE status of any of our PRC operating subsidiaries for any reason, there may be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our shares of common stock. PRC regulations relating to the registration requirements for PRC resident shareholders owning shares in offshore companies may subject our PRC resident shareholders to personal liability and limit our ability to acquire companies in China or to inject capital into our operating subsidiaries in China, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business. The SAFE issued a public notice in October 2005, Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Control on Domestic Residents’ Corporate Financing and Roundtrip Investment through Offshore Special Purpose Vehicles, which we refer to as Circular 75, requiring PRC residents, including both legal persons and natural persons, to register with the competent local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China, referred to as an “offshore special purpose company,” for the purpose of acquiring any assets of or equity interest in PRC companies and raising funds from overseas. In addition, any PRC resident who is the shareholder of an offshore special purpose company is required to amend his or her SAFE registration with the local SAFE branch, with respect to that offshore special purpose company in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, merger, division, equity investment or creation of any security interest over any assets located in China. If any PRC resident who is the shareholder of an offshore special purpose company fails to comply with the SAFE registration requirements, the PRC subsidiaries of the offshore special purpose company may be prohibited from distributing their profits and proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to their offshore parent company and the offshore parent company may be restricted in its ability to contribute additional capital into its PRC subsidiaries. Moreover, failure to comply with the SAFE registration requirements could result in liabilities under PRC laws for evasion of foreign exchange restrictions. Although we believe that our PRC subsidiaries are in compliance with these regulations, should these regulations or the interpretation of them by course or regulatory agencies change, we may not be able to pay dividends outside of China. We do not believe that we have incurred a liability because of noncompliance with Circular 75 under SAFE registration procedures, however. Accordingly, we cannot predict fully how Circular 75 will affect our business operations or future strategies because of ongoing uncertainty over how Circular 75 is interpreted and implemented, and how or whether SAFE will apply it to us. 21 Table of Contents We have requested our PRC resident beneficial owners, including our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, to make the necessary applications, filings and amendments as required under SAFE regulations in connection with their equity interests in us and our acquisitions of equity interests in our PRC subsidiaries. We cannot provide any assurances that all of our present or prospective direct or indirect PRC resident beneficial owners have or will comply fully with all applicable registrations or required approvals. The failure or inability of our PRC resident beneficial owners to comply with the applicable SAFE registration requirements may subject these beneficial owners or us to fines, legal sanctions and restrictions described above. On March 28, 2007, SAFE promulgated the Operating Procedures for Foreign Exchange Administration of Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Ownership Plans and Stock Option Plans of Offshore Listed Companies, or Circular 78. Under Circular 78, PRC citizens granted stock options by an offshore listed company are required, through an agent in China or a PRC subsidiary of the offshore listed company, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures, including applications for foreign exchange purchase quotas and opening special bank accounts. Failure to comply with these regulations may subject us or our PRC employees that receive stock option grants from us to fines and legal sanctions imposed by SAFE or other PRC government authorities and may prevent us from further granting stock options under our equity incentive plans to our PRC-citizen employees in China. Such events could adversely affect our business operations. PRC labor laws may adversely affect our results of operations. On June 29, 2007, the PRC government promulgated the Labor Contract Law of the PRC, effective on January 1, 2008, to govern the establishment of employment relationships between employers and employees, and the conclusion, performance, termination of and the amendment to employment contracts. The Labor Contract Law imposes greater liabilities on employers and significantly affects the cost of an employer’s decision to reduce its workforce. Further, it requires that certain terminations be based upon seniority and not merit. In the event we decide to significantly change or decrease our workforce in China, the Labor Contract Law could adversely affect our ability to effect such changes in a manner that is most advantageous to our business or in a timely and cost-effective manner, thus materially and adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. Under the Enterprise Income Tax Law, we may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of China. Such classification will likely result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC resident shareholders. China passed the Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, and its implementing rules, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008. Under the EIT Law, an enterprise established outside of China with “de facto management bodies” within China is considered a “resident enterprise,” meaning that it must be treated as a PRC domestic enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes. The implementing rules of the EIT Law define de facto management as “substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise. On April 22, 2009, the PRC State Administration of Taxation, or the SAT, issued the Notice Concerning Relevant Issues Regarding Cognizance of Chinese Investment Controlled Enterprises Incorporated Offshore as Resident Enterprises pursuant to Criteria of de facto Management Bodies, or the Notice, further interpreting the application of the EIT Law and its implementation regarding non-PRC enterprise or group controlled offshore entities. Pursuant to the Notice, an enterprise incorporated in an off-shore jurisdiction and controlled by a PRC enterprise or group will be classified as a “non-domestically incorporated resident enterprise” if: (i) its senior management in charge of daily operations reside or perform their duties mainly in China; (ii) its financial or personnel decisions are made or approved by bodies or persons in China; (iii) its substantial assets and properties, accounting books, corporate chops, board and shareholder minutes are kept in China; and (iv) at least half of its directors with voting rights or senior management often reside in China. A “resident enterprise” would be subject to an enterprise income tax rate of 25% on its worldwide income and must pay a withholding tax at a rate of 10% when paying dividends to its non-PRC shareholders. However, detailed measures on imposition of tax from non-domestically incorporated resident enterprises are not yet available. Therefore, it is unclear how tax authorities will determine tax residency based on the facts of each case. We may be deemed to be a “resident enterprise” by PRC tax authorities. If the PRC tax authorities determine that we are a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we may be subject to the enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. In our case, this would mean that income such as interest on financing proceeds and non-China source income would be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at a rate of 25%. Second, although under the EIT Law and its implementing rules dividends paid to us from our PRC subsidaries would qualify as “tax-exempt income,” we cannot guarantee that such dividends will not be subject to a 10% withholding tax, as the PRC foreign exchange control authorities, which enforce the withholding tax, have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as “resident enterprises” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. Finally, it is possible that future guidance issued with respect to the new “resident enterprise” classification could result in a situation in which a 10% withholding tax is imposed on dividends we pay to our non-PRC shareholders and with respect to gains derived by our non-PRC shareholders from transferring our shares. If we were treated as a “resident enterprise” by PRC tax authorities, we would be subject to taxation in both the U.S. and China, and our PRC tax may not be creditable against our U.S. tax. 22 Table of Contents Dividends distributed from our PRC subsidiaries to our non-PRC resident shareholders would be subject to U.S. and PRC withholding taxes. We are a Nevada holding company and substantially all of our income is derived from dividends we receive from our subsidiaries, including those in China. Pretax earnings of a foreign subsidiary are subject to U.S. taxation when effectively repatriated. We currently consider the undistributed earnings of our PRC subsidiaries to be invested indefinitely and, accordingly, record no deferred U.S. tax expense on such earnings. If our PRC subsidiaries were to distribute dividends to us, the dividends would be subject to U.S. and PRC withholding taxes. Before the EIT Law came into effect on January 1, 2008, dividends paid to foreign investors by FIEs, such as dividends paid to us by our subsidiaries in China, were exempt from PRC withholding tax. Pursuant to the EIT Law, dividends generated after January 1, 2008, and distributed to us by our subsidiaries in China are subject to withholding tax at a rate of 5%, provided that we are determined by the relevant PRC tax authorities to be a “non-resident enterprise” under the EIT Law and hold at least 25% of the equity interest of our subsidiaries. If we are determined to be a “resident enterprise,” we cannot guarantee that such dividends will not be subject to a 10% withholding tax, as the PRC foreign exchange control authorities, which enforce the withholding tax, have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as “resident enterprises” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. The SAT promulgated “Notice on How to Understand and Determine the Beneficial Owners in Tax Agreement” on October 27, 2009, or SAT Circular 601, which provides guidance for determining whether a resident of a contracting state is the “beneficial owner” of an item of income under China’s tax treaties and tax arrangements. According to SAT Circular 601, a beneficial owner generally must be engaged in substantive business activities. An agent or conduit company will not be regarded as a beneficial owner and, therefore, will not qualify for treaty benefits. The agent or conduit company normally refers to a company that is registered in a jurisdiction other than China and merely meets the minimum legal requirements on organizational form and is not engaged in substantive operational activities for manufacturing, distribution or management. It is still unclear how SAT Circular 601 is implemented by SAT or its local counterparts in practice and whether we could be recognized as a “beneficial owner.” If we are deemed a non-resident enterprise but not qualified as a beneficial owner, we will not be entitled to a reduced 5% withholding tax and the 10% withholding tax would be imposed on any dividend income received from our subsidiaries in China. As a result, our net income would be reduced and our operating results would be adversely affected. Tax laws and regulations in China are subject to revision, some of which may adversely affect our profitability, and the termination of certain preferential tax treatment for which we are eligible in China may adversely affect our net income. The PRC corporate tax regime continues to undergo revision. Tax benefits that we presently enjoy may not be available to us in the wake of these changes, and we could incur tax obligations to the PRC government that are significantly higher than currently anticipated. These increased tax obligations could negatively affect our financial condition and our revenues, gross margins, profitability and results of operations may be adversely affected as a result. Furthermore, certain tax exemptions that certain of our subsidiaries presently enjoy in China are scheduled to expire after 2012. Taiyu and SanDeKe are governed by the Income Tax Law of the PRC concerning privately run enterprises, which are generally subject to tax at a statutory rate of 25% on income reported in the statutory financial statements after appropriate tax adjustments. Taiyu has been classified as a high-tech enterprise eligible for certain tax benefits, including a preferential enterprise income tax rate of 15% through 2012. SanDeKe is entitled to a 50% discount on its income tax rate from 2010 through 2012, resulting in an income tax rate of 12% and 11% for 2011 and 2010, respectively. We plan to apply for renewal of these preferential tax benefits for Taiyu and SanDeKe after 2012. If these tax benefits enjoyed by Taiyu and SanDeKe expire without renewal, however, our income tax expenses will increase, which will reduce our net income. Our compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act may put us at a competitive disadvantage, while our failure to comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act may result in substantial penalties. We are required to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, which prohibits U.S. companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Although we inform our personnel that such practices are illegal, we cannot assure you that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties. Non-U.S. companies, including some of our competitors, are not subject to the provisions of the FCPA. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time to time in mainland China. If our competitors engage in these practices, they may receive preferential treatment from personnel of some companies, giving our competitors an advantage in securing business or from government officials who might give them priority in obtaining new licenses, which would put us at a disadvantage. 23 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Securities The market price for our common stock may be volatile, which could make it more difficult or impossible for you to sell our common stock for a positive return on your investment. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, our quarterly operating results or the operating results of other companies in our industry, announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, new products, product improvements, commercial relationships, intellectual property, legal, regulatory or other business developments and changes in financial estimates or recommendations by stock market analysts regarding us or our competitors. In addition, the stock market in general, and in particular the market for companies with substantial operations based in China, that became public by means of a reverse acquisition with a public shell company or that recently effected a reverse stock split, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated or disproportionate to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on our stock price, regardless of our operating results. Further, the market for our common stock is limited and we cannot assure you that a larger market will ever be developed or maintained. Market fluctuations and volatility, as well as general economic, market and political conditions, could reduce our market price. As a result, these factors may make it more difficult or impossible for you to sell our common stock for a positive return on your investment. We have experienced difficulties maintaining compliance with the minimum bid requirements for the continued listing of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, and any future failure to comply with such requirements could result in the delisting of our common stock from that trading market. In September 2011, we received notice from the Listing Qualifications Department of the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC indicating that, for a period of 30 consecutive business days, the bid price for our common stock had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share bid closing price required for continued inclusion on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. We met, and continue to meet, all other continued listing criteria. In order to regain compliance, shares of our common stock needed to maintain a minimum bid closing price of at least $1.00 per share for a minimum of ten consecutive business days. Effective on February 7, 2012, we implemented a one-for-ten reverse stock split of our common stock with the intent to increase the per share trading value of our common stock. On February 22, 2012, we received notice from the Listing Qualifications Department that the closing bid price of our common stock had been at $1.00 per share or greater for a period of ten consecutive business days and that our common stock had regained compliance. Notwithstanding the foregoing compliance issues, our common stock has been continuously listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market without interruption. In order to preserve our listing status, we must remain in compliance with all applicable continued listing criteria, including but not limited to the minimum bid price requirements described above. We can provide no assurance that we will remain in compliance with such listing requirements, or that our common stock will continue to be listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market or any other market. Our quarterly results may be volatile, which could materially affect the per share price of our common stock. Our operating results have varied on a quarterly basis during our operating history and are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future. Many factors, including the risk factors incorporated by reference herein, could cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly in the future. Many of these factors are outside of our control. Accordingly, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful. Investors should not rely on the results of one quarter as an indication of our future performance. If our results of operations in any quarter do not meet analysts’ expectations, our stock price could materially decrease. Future sales of our stock could depress the market price of our common stock and cause our stock price to decline. Future sales of shares of our common stock could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our stock. If our significant stockholders sell a large number of shares, or if we issue a large number of shares, the market price of our common stock could significantly decline. Moreover, the perception in the public market that our significant stockholders might sell shares of our common stock could depress the market for our shares. If such shareholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, such sales could create a circumstance commonly referred to as an “overhang,” in anticipation of which the market price of our common stock could fall. The existence of an overhang, whether or not sales have occurred or are occurring, also could make it more difficult for us to raise additional financing through the sale of equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price we deem reasonable or appropriate. 24 Table of Contents We may issue additional shares of our capital stock or debt securities to raise capital or complete acquisitions, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders. Our Articles of Incorporation authorize the issuance of up to 75,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share. As of March 28, 2012, there were 71,038,226 authorized and unissued shares of our common stock available for future issuance, based on 3,955,774 shares of our common stock outstanding and our reservation of 6,000 shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding options. Although we have no commitments as of the date of this report to issue our securities, we may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock to complete a business combination or to raise capital. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock may significantly reduce the equity interest of our existing stockholders and may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. We have not paid dividends in the past and do not expect to pay dividends in the future. Any return on investment may be limited to the value of our common stock. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends on our common stock will depend on earnings, financial condition and other business and economic factors affecting it at such time as the Board of Directors may consider relevant. Furthermore, China has currency and capital transfer regulations that require us to comply with complex regulations for the movement of capital. See “Risks Related to Our Business – We are a holding company that depends on cash flow from our wholly owned subsidiaries to meet our obligations.” Although our management believes that we are in compliance with these regulations, should these regulations or the interpretation of them by PRC courts or regulatory agencies change, we may not be able to pay dividends to our shareholders outside of China. Our management intends to follow a policy of retaining all of our earnings to finance the development and execution of our strategy and the expansion of our business. If we do not pay dividends, our common stock may be less valuable because a return on your investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. One of our principal shareholders has the ability to exert significant control in matters requiring a shareholder vote and could delay, deter or prevent a change of control in our company. As of March 28, 2012, Jun Wang, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer and one of our largest shareholders, beneficially owns 9.43% of our outstanding shares. Mr. Wang possesses significant influence over us, giving him the ability, among other things, to exercise significant control over the election of all or a majority of the Board of Directors and to approve significant corporate transactions. Such stock ownership and control may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a future change in control, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. Without the consent of Mr. Wang, we could be prevented from entering into potentially beneficial transactions if they conflict with his interests. The interests of Mr. Wang may differ from the interests of our other shareholders. Provisions in the Nevada Revised Statutes and our Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws could make it very difficult for you to bring any legal actions against our directors or officers for violations of their fiduciary duties or could require us to pay any amounts incurred by our directors or officers in any such actions. Members of our Board of Directors and our officers will have no liability for breaches of their fiduciary duty of care as a director or officer, except in limited circumstances, pursuant to provisions in the Nevada Revised Statutes and our Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws as authorized by the Nevada Revised Statutes. Specifically, Section 78.138 of the Nevada Revised Statutes provides that a director or officer is not individually liable to the company or its shareholders or creditors for any damages as a result of any act or failure to act in his or her capacity as a director or officer unless it is proven that (1) the director’s or officer’s act or failure to act constituted a breach of his or her fiduciary duties as a director or officer and (2) his or her breach of those duties involved intentional misconduct, fraud or a knowing violation of law. This provision is intended to afford directors and officers protection against and to limit their potential liability for monetary damages resulting from suits alleging a breach of the duty of care by a director or officer. Accordingly, you may be unable to prevail in a legal action against our directors or officers even if they have breached their fiduciary duty of care. In addition, our Amended and Restated Bylaws allow us to indemnify our directors and officers from and against any and all costs, charges and expenses resulting from their acting in such capacities with us. This means that if you were able to enforce an action against our directors or officers, in all likelihood, we would be required to pay any expenses they incurred in defending the lawsuit and any judgment or settlement they otherwise would be required to pay. Accordingly, our indemnification obligations could divert needed financial resources and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. 25 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not required. 