ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business We may not have sufficient cash from operations to pay the quarterly distribution on our common units. We may not have sufficient cash flow from operations each quarter to pay the quarterly distribution. Under the terms of our limited liability company agreement, the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution will be reduced by our operating expenses and the amount of any cash reserve amounts that our board of directors establishes to provide for future operations, future capital expenditures and future debt service requirements. The amount of cash we can distribute on our common units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: · the amount of natural gas and oil we produce; · the demand of our natural gas and oil production; · the price at which we are able to sell our natural gas and oil production; · the level of our operating costs; · our ability to continue our development activities at economically attractive costs; · the results of our hedging activities; · the level of our interest expense which depends on the amount of our indebtedness and the interest payable thereon; and · the level of our capital expenditures. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: · the level of our capital expenditures; · our ability to make working capital borrowings under our reserve-based credit facility to pay distributions; · the cost of acquisitions, if any; · our debt service requirements; · fluctuations in our working capital needs; · timing and collectibility of receivables; · restrictions on distributions contained in our reserve-based credit facility; · prevailing economic conditions; and · the amount of cash reserves established by our board of directors for the proper conduct of our business. As a result of these factors, the amount of cash we distribute in any quarter to our unitholders may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. If we do not achieve our expected operational results or cannot borrow the amounts needed, we may not be able to pay the full, or any, amount of the quarterly distribution, in which event the market price of our common units may decline substantially. We rely on Vinland, an affiliate of our largest unitholder, to execute our drilling program in Appalachia. If Vinland fails to or inadequately performs, our operations will be disrupted and our costs could increase or our reserves may not be developed, reducing our future levels of production and our cash from operations, which could affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. 15 Effective as of January 5, 2007, we entered into various agreements with Vinland, an affiliate of our largest unitholder, under which we rely on Vinland to operate all of our existing producing wells and coordinate our development drilling program in Appalachia. For example, pursuant to a participation agreement that we have entered into with Vinland, Vinland generally has control over our drilling program in Appalachia and has the sole right to determine which wells are drilled until January 1, 2011. Under the agreements, Vinland will also advise and consult with us regarding all aspects of our production and development operations in Appalachia and provide us with administrative support services as necessary or useful for the operation of our business. If Vinland fails to or inadequately performs these functions, our operations in Appalachia will be disrupted and our costs could increase or our reserves may not be developed or properly developed, reducing our future levels of production and our cash from operations, which could affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Natural gas and oil prices are volatile. If commodity prices decline significantly for a temporary or prolonged period, our cash flow from operations may decline and we may have to lower our distributions or may not be able to pay distributions at all. Our revenue, profitability and cash flow depend upon the prices and demand for natural gas and oil. The natural gas and oil markets are very volatile and a drop in prices can significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth. Changes in natural gas and oil prices have a significant impact on the value of our reserves and on our cash flow. Prices for natural gas and oil may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for natural gas and oil, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, such as: · the domestic and foreign supply of and demand for natural gas and oil; · the price and level of foreign imports; · the level of consumer product demand; · weather conditions; · overall domestic and global economic conditions; · political and economic conditions in natural gas and oil producing countries, including those in the Middle East, Africa and South America; · the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; · the impact of the U.S. dollar exchange rates on natural gas and oil prices; · technological advances affecting energy consumption; · domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation; · the impact of energy conservation efforts; · the proximity and capacity of natural gas and oil pipelines and other transportation facilities; and · the price and availability of alternative fuels. Although we intend to have an ongoing natural gas price hedging strategy, there is no assurance that it will effectively negate the impact of price fluctuations on all of our production. In the past, the price of natural gas has been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2007, the closing price of a calendar month NYMEX natural gas price ranged from a high of $7.59 per MMBtu to a low of $5.84 per MMBtu. If we raise our cash distribution level in response to increased cash flow during periods of relatively high commodity prices, we may not be able to sustain those distribution levels during periods of sustained lower commodity prices. 16 Unless we replace our reserves, our existing reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our cash flow from operations and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Producing natural gas and oil wells extract hydrocarbons from underground structures referred to as reservoirs. Reservoirs contain a finite volume of hydrocarbon reserves referred to as reserves in place. Based on prevailing prices and production technologies, only a fraction of reserves in place can be recovered from a given reservoir. The volume of the reserves in place that is recoverable from a particular reservoir is reduced as production from that well continues. The reduction is referred to as depletion. Ultimately, the economically recoverable reserves from a particular well will deplete entirely and the producing well will cease to produce and will be plugged and abandoned. As a result, unless we are able over the long-term to replace the reserves that are produced, investors in our units should consider the cash distributions that are paid on the units not merely as a “yield” on the units, but as a combination of both a return of capital and a return on investment. Investors in our units will have to obtain the return of capital invested out of cash flow derived from their investments in units during the period when reserves can be economically recovered. Accordingly, we give no assurances that the distributions our unitholders receive over the life of their investment will meet or exceed their initial capital investment. Our acquisition activities will subject us to certain risks. On December 21, 2007, we expanded our operations into the Permian Basin of West Texas and Southeastern New Mexico by entering into a Purchase and Sale Agreement with the Apache Corporation. We spent approximately $78.3 million, after purchase price adjustments, on this acquisition. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: the validity of our assumptions about reserves, future production, revenues and costs, including synergies; an inability to integrate successfully the businesses we acquire; a decrease in our liquidity by using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions; a significant increase in our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance acquisitions; the assumption of unknown liabilities, losses or costs for which we are not indemnified or for which our indemnity is inadequate; the diversion of management’s attention to other business concerns; an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate our growing business and assets; the incurrence of other significant charges, such as impairment of other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges; unforeseen difficulties encountered in operating in new geographic areas; an increase in our costs or a decrease in our revenues associated with any potential royalty owner or landowner claims or disputes; and customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses. Our decision to acquire a property will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained from production reports and engineering studies, geophysical and geological analyses and seismic and other information, the results of which are often inconclusive and subject to various interpretations. Also, our reviews of acquired properties are inherently incomplete because it generally is not feasible to perform an in-depth review of the individual properties involved in each acquisition. Even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and potential. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as ground water contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. If our Permian Basin acquisition or other potential acquisitions do not generate increases in available cash per unit, our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders could materially decrease. Vinland controls our drilling program in Appalachia. Vinland has agreed to drill not less than 100 gross wells per calendar year for each of the next three years. Pursuant to a participation agreement that we have entered into with Vinland, Vinland generally has control over our drilling program in Appalachia and has the sole right to determine which wells are drilled until January 1, 2011. During this period, we will meet with Vinland on a quarterly basis to review Vinland’s proposal to drill not less than 25 nor more than 40 gross wells, in which we will own a 40% working interest, in any quarter. Up to 20% of the proposed wells may be carried over and added to the wells to be drilled in the subsequent quarter, provided that Vinland is required to drill at least 100 gross wells per calendar year. If Vinland proposes the drilling of less than 25 gross wells in any quarter, we have the right to propose the drilling of up to a total of 14 net wells, in which we will own a 100% working interest, in a given quarterly period. If Vinland drills its minimum commitment, we do not have the ability to drill our own additional wells in the AMI. If either party elects not to participate in the drilling of the proposed wells or future operations with respect to drilled wells, such party forfeits all right, title and interest in the natural gas and oil production that may be produced from such wells. 17 The participation agreement will remain in place for four years and shall continue thereafter on a year to year basis until such time as either party elects to terminate the agreement. The obligations of the parties with respect to the drilling program described above will expire in three years. A substantial majority of our properties in the Permian Basin are operated by a third party. Because we do not control the development of the properties we own but do not operate, we may not be able to achieve any production from these properties in a timely manner. We currently only operate 49 of our 390 gross wells in the Permian Basin. In addition, we expect that a substantial majority of future wells on our existing Permian Basin properties will be operated by third parties. As a result, the success and timing of our drilling and development activities on such nonoperated properties depend upon a number of factors, including: · the nature and timing of drilling and operational activities; · the timing and amount of capital expenditures; · the operators’ expertise and financial resources; · the approval of other participants in such properties; and · the selection of suitable technology. If drilling and development activities are not conducted on these properties or are not conducted on a timely basis, we may be unable to increase our production or offset normal production declines, which may adversely affect our production, revenues and results of operations. We could lose our interests in future wells if we fail to participate under our participation and operating agreements with Vinland in the drilling of these wells. Under the terms of our participation and operating agreements with Vinland, we may elect to forego participation in the future drilling of wells. Should we do so, we will become obligated to transfer without compensation all of our right, title and interest in those wells. We are exposed to the credit risk of Vinland and any material nonperformance by Vinland could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Effective January 5, 2007, we entered into several agreements with Vinland pursuant to which Vinland operates all of our existing producing wells in Appalachia and coordinates our development drilling program in Appalachia. In addition, Vinland generally has control over our drilling program in Appalachia and has the sole right to determine which wells are drilled until January 1, 2011. In the event Vinland becomes insolvent or is declared bankrupt, we would have to become the operator of our wells in Appalachia and pursue our own drilling program, which would require additional employees and increased expenses. In addition, there are no restrictions on Nami from selling his ownership in Vinland to a third party that should, but may not perform under our agreements with Vinland. Any material nonperformance under our agreements with Vinland could materially and adversely impact our ability to operate and make distributions to our unitholders. The amount of cash that we have available for distribution to our unitholders depends primarily upon our cash flow and not our profitability. The amount of cash that we have available for distribution depends primarily on our cash flow, including cash from reserves and working capital or other borrowings, and not solely on our profitability, which is affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may be unable to pay distributions even when we record net income, and we may pay distributions during periods when we incur net losses. Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. No one can measure underground accumulations of natural gas in an exact way. Natural gas reserve engineering requires subjective estimates of underground accumulations of natural gas and assumptions concerning future natural gas prices, production levels, and operating and development costs. As a result, estimated quantities of proved reserves and projections of future production rates and the timing of development expenditures may prove to be inaccurate. Independent petroleum engineers prepare estimates of our proved reserves. Some of our reserve estimates are made without the benefit of a lengthy production history, which are less reliable than estimates based on a lengthy production history. Also, we make certain assumptions regarding future natural gas prices, production levels, and operating and development costs that may prove incorrect. Any significant variance from these assumptions by actual figures could greatly affect our estimates of reserves, the economically recoverable quantities of natural gas attributable to any particular group of properties, the classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery, and estimates of the future net cash flows. For example, if natural gas prices decline by $1.00 per MMBtu, the standardized measure of our proved reserves as of December 31, 2007 would decrease from $151.0 million to $120.0 million, based on price sensitivity generated from an internal evaluation. Our standardized measure is calculated using unhedged natural gas prices and is determined in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC. Numerous changes over time to the assumptions on which our reserve estimates are based, as described above, often result in the actual quantities of natural gas we ultimately recover being different from our reserve estimates. Additionally, the estimates of reserves for the properties we own in the Permian Basin are only internal estimates and have not been reviewed by our independent petroleum engineers and they may disagree with our estimates. 18 The present value of future net cash flows from our proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated natural gas reserves. We base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on prices and costs in effect on the day of the estimate. However, actual future net cash flows from our natural gas properties will be affected by factors such as: · supply of and demand for natural gas; · actual prices we receive for natural gas; · our actual operating costs in providing natural gas; · the amount and timing of our capital expenditures; · the amount and timing of actual production; and · changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of natural gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the natural gas industry in general. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to unitholders. Our operations require substantial capital expenditures, which will reduce our cash available for distribution. We may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in our reserves and adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. The natural gas and oil industry is capital intensive. We make and expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures in our business for the development, production and acquisition of natural gas reserves. These expenditures will reduce our cash available for distribution. We intend to finance our future capital expenditures with cash flow from operations and our financing arrangements. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including: · our proved reserves; · the level of natural gas and oil we are able to produce from existing wells; · the prices at which our natural gas and oil is sold; and · our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves. If our revenues or the borrowing base under our reserve-based credit facility decrease as a result of lower natural gas and oil prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels or to replace or add to our reserves. Our reserve-based credit facility restricts our ability to obtain new debt financing. If additional capital is needed, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. If cash generated by operations or available under our reserve-based credit facility is not sufficient to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to development of our prospects, which in turn could lead to a possible decline in our reserves and production and a reduction in our cash available for distribution. Our business depends on gathering and compression facilities owned by Vinland and transportation facilities owned by Delta Natural Gas, Columbia Gas Transmission and other third-party transporters and we rely on Vinland to gather and deliver our natural gas to certain designated interconnects with third-party transporters. 19 Any limitation in the availability of those facilities or delay in providing interconnections to newly drilled wells would interfere with our ability to market the natural gas we produce and could reduce our revenues and cash available for distribution. Effective as of January 5, 2007, we entered into a gathering and compression agreement with Vinland. Pursuant to this agreement, Vinland gathers, compresses, delivers and provides the services necessary for us to market our natural gas production in the area of mutual interest. Vinland delivers our natural gas production to certain designated interconnects with third-party transporters including Delta Natural Gas and Columbia Gas Transmission. As a result, the marketability of our natural gas production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of Vinland’s, Delta’s, and Columbia’s pipeline systems. The amount of natural gas that can be produced and sold is subject to curtailment in certain circumstances, such as pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, excessive pressure, physical damage to the gathering, compression or transportation system, or lack of contracted capacity on such systems. The curtailments arising from these and similar circumstances may last from a few days to several months. In many cases, we are provided only with limited, if any, notice as to when these circumstances will arise and their duration. In addition, some of our wells are drilled in locations that are not serviced by gathering and transportation pipelines, or the gathering and transportation pipelines in the area may not have sufficient capacity to transport the additional production. As a result, we may not be able to sell the natural gas production from these wells until the necessary gathering and transportation systems are constructed. Any significant curtailment in gathering system or pipeline capacity, or significant delay in the construction of necessary gathering, compression and transportation facilities, could reduce our revenues and cash available for distribution. Finally, if we drill wells in locations that are not serviced by Vinland’s gathering pipelines, we may need to contract with a third-party to deliver our production which may not be as favorable to us as our agreement with Vinland. Future price declines may result in a write-down of our asset carrying values. Lower natural gas and oil prices may not only decrease our revenues, but also reduce the amount of natural gas and oil that we can produce economically. This may result in our having to make substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves. If this occurs, or if our estimates of development costs increase, production data factors change or drilling results deteriorate, accounting rules may require us to write down, as a non-cash charge to earnings, the carrying value of our natural gas properties for impairments. We are required to perform impairment tests on our assets whenever events or changes in circumstances lead to a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows that would indicate that the carry amount may not be recoverable or whenever management’s plans change with respect to those assets. We may incur impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period taken and our ability to borrow funds under our reserve-based credit facility, which may affect our ability to fund our operations and acquire additional reserves, which may adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. We depend on certain key customers for sales of our natural gas. To the extent these and other customers reduce the volumes of natural gas they purchase from us, our revenues and cash available for distribution could decline. For the year ended December 31, 2007, sales of natural gas to North American Energy Corporation, Osram Sylvania, Inc., Dominion Field Services, Inc., BP Energy Company and Eagle Energy Partners, LLC accounted for approximately 41%, 16%, 13%, 11% and 11%, respectively, of our total revenues. Our top five purchasers during the year ended December 31, 2007, therefore accounted for 92% of our total revenues. To the extent these and other customers reduce the volumes of natural gas that they purchase from us and they are not replaced in a timely manner with a new customer, our revenues and cash available for distribution could decline. Because we handle natural gas and other petroleum products, we may incur significant costs and liabilities in the future resulting from a failure to comply with new or existing environmental regulations or an accidental release of hazardous substances into the environment. The operations of our wells are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These include, for example: · the federal Clean Air Act and comparable state laws and regulations that impose obligations related to air emissions; 20 · the federal Clean Water Act and comparable state laws and regulations that impose obligations related to discharges of pollutants into regulated bodies of water; · RCRA and comparable state laws that impose requirements for the handling and disposal of waste from our facilities; and · CERCLA and comparable state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or at locations to which we have sent hazardous substances for disposal. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements, and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. Certain environmental statutes, including the RCRA, CERCLA, the federal Oil Pollution Act and analogous state laws and implementing regulations, impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where hazardous substances or wastes have been disposed of or otherwise released. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property or natural resource damage allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances or other waste products into the environment. We may incur significant environmental costs and liabilities due to the nature of our business and the hazardous substances and wastes associated with operation of the wells. For example, an accidental release of petroleum hydrocarbons from one of our wells could subject us to substantial liabilities arising from environmental cleanup and restoration costs, claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury, property and natural resource damage, and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. Moreover, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. We may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance. Please read “Item 1—Business—Operations—Environmental Matters and Regulation.” Our future distributions and proved reserves will be dependent upon the success of our efforts to prudently acquire, manage and develop natural gas and oil properties that conform to the acquisition profile described in this Annual Report. In addition to ownership of the properties currently owned by us, unless we acquire properties in the future containing additional proved reserves or successfully develop proved reserves on our existing properties, our proved reserves will decline as the reserves attributable to the underlying properties are produced. In addition, if the costs to develop or operate our properties increase, the estimated proved reserves associated with properties will be reduced below the level that would otherwise be estimated. We will manage and develop our properties, and the ultimate value to us of such properties which we acquire will be dependent upon the price we pay and our ability to prudently acquire, manage and develop such properties. As a result, our future cash distributions will be dependent to a substantial extent upon our ability to prudently acquire, manage and develop such properties. Suitable acquisition candidates may not be available on terms and conditions that we find acceptable, and acquisitions pose substantial risks to our businesses, financial conditions and results of operations. Even if future acquisitions are completed, the following are some of the risks associated with acquisitions, which could reduce the amount of cash available from the affected properties: · some of the acquired properties may not produce revenues, reserves, earnings or cash flow at anticipated levels; · we may assume liabilities that were not disclosed or that exceed their estimates; · we may be unable to integrate acquired properties successfully and may not realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits in a timely manner, which could result in substantial costs and delays or other operational, technical or financial problems; · acquisitions could disrupt our ongoing business, distract management, divert resources and make it difficult to maintain our current business standards, controls and procedures; and 21 · we may incur additional debt related to future acquisitions. Substantial acquisitions or other transactions could require significant external capital and could change our risk and property profile. A principal component of our business strategy is to grow our asset base and production through the acquisition of natural gas and oil properties characterized by long-lived, stable production. The character of the newly acquired properties may be substantially different in operating or geological characteristics or geographic location than our existing properties. The changes in the characteristics and risk profiles of such new properties will in turn affect our risk profile, which may negatively affect our ability to issue equity or debt securities in order to fund future acquisitions and may inhibit our ability to renegotiate our existing credit facilities on favorable terms. Locations that we decide to drill may not yield natural gas in commercially viable quantities. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a well. Our efforts will be uneconomical if we drill dry holes or wells that are productive but do not produce enough to be commercially viable after drilling, operating and other costs. If we drill future wells that we identify as dry holes, our drilling success rate would decline and may adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to pay future cash distributions at expected levels. Many of our leases are in areas that have been partially depleted or drained by offset wells. Many of our leases are in areas that have already been partially depleted or drained by earlier offset drilling. This may inhibit our ability to find economically recoverable quantities of natural gas in these areas. Our identified drilling location inventories are scheduled out over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling, resulting in temporarily lower cash from operations, which may impact our ability to pay distributions. Our management has specifically identified and scheduled drilling locations as an estimation of our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage. As of December 31, 2007, we had identified 326 proved undeveloped drilling locations and over 217 additional drilling locations in Appalachia. These identified drilling locations represent a significant part of our strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, natural gas prices, drilling and operating costs and drilling results. In addition, NSAI has not assigned any proved reserves to the over 217 unproved drilling locations we have identified and scheduled for drilling and therefore there may exist greater uncertainty with respect to the success of drilling wells at these drilling locations. Our final determination on whether to drill any of these drilling locations will be dependent upon the factors described above as well as, to some degree, the results of our drilling activities with respect to our proved drilling locations. Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if the numerous drilling locations we have identified will be drilled within our expected timeframe or will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce natural gas from these or any other potential drilling locations. As such, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified, which could adversely affect our business. Drilling for and producing natural gas are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations and, as a result, our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. Our drilling activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that we will not discover commercially productive reservoirs. Drilling for natural gas can be uneconomical, not only from dry holes, but also from productive wells that do not produce sufficient revenues to be commercially viable. In addition, our drilling and producing operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of other factors, including: · the high cost, shortages or delivery delays of equipment and services; · unexpected operational events; · adverse weather conditions; 22 · facility or equipment malfunctions; · title problems; · pipeline ruptures or spills; · compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; · unusual or unexpected geological formations; · loss of drilling fluid circulation; · formations with abnormal pressures; · fires; · blowouts, craterings and explosions; · uncontrollable flows of natural gas or well fluids; and · pipeline capacity curtailments. Any of these events can cause substantial losses, including personal injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution, environmental contamination, loss of wells and regulatory penalties. We ordinarily maintain insurance against various losses and liabilities arising from our operations; however, insurance against all operational risks is not available to us. Additionally, we may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the perceived risks presented. Losses could therefore occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse impact on our business activities, financial condition and results of operations. We may incur substantial additional debt in the future to enable us to pursue our business plan and to pay distributions to our unitholders. Our business requires a significant amount of capital expenditures to maintain and grow production levels. Commodity prices have historically been volatile, and we cannot predict the prices we will be able to realize for our production in the future. As a result, we may borrow significant amounts under our reserve-based credit facility in the future to enable us to pay quarterly distributions. Significant declines in our production or significant declines in realized natural gas prices for prolonged periods and resulting decreases in our borrowing base may force us to reduce or suspend distributions to our unitholders. When we borrow to pay distributions, we are distributing more cash than we are generating from our operations on a current basis. This means that we are using a portion of our borrowing capacity under our reserve-based credit facility to pay distributions rather than to maintain or expand our operations. If we use borrowings under our reserve-based credit facility to pay distributions for an extended period of time rather than toward funding capital expenditures and other matters relating to our operations, we may be unable to support or grow our business. Such a curtailment of our business activities, combined with our payment of principal and interest on our future indebtedness to pay these distributions, will reduce our cash available for distribution on our common units. If we borrow to pay distributions during periods of low commodity prices and commodity prices remain low, we may have to reduce or suspend our distribution in order to avoid excessive leverage and debt covenant violations. Our reserve-based credit facility has substantial restrictions and financial covenants and we may have difficulty obtaining additional credit, which could adversely affect our operations and our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. 23 We are prohibited from borrowing under our reserve-based credit facility to pay distributions to unitholders if the amount of borrowings outstanding under our reserve-based credit facility reaches or exceeds 90% of the borrowing base. Our borrowing base is the amount of money available for borrowing, as determined semi-annually by our lenders in their sole discretion. The lenders will redetermine the borrowing base based on an engineering report with respect to our natural gas reserves, which will take into account the prevailing natural gas prices at such time. We anticipate that if, at the time of any distribution, our borrowings equal or exceed 90% of the then-specified borrowing base, our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders in any such quarter will be solely dependent on our ability to generate sufficient cash from our operations. The lenders can unilaterally adjust the borrowing base and the borrowings permitted to be outstanding under our reserve-based credit facility. Any increase in the borrowing base requires the consent of all the lenders. Outstanding borrowings in excess of the borrowing base must be repaid immediately, or we must pledge other natural gas and oil properties as additional collateral. We do not currently have any substantial unpledged properties, and we may not have the financial resources in the future to make any mandatory principal prepayments required under our reserve-based credit facility. Seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations adversely affect our ability to conduct drilling activities in some of the areas where we operate. Natural gas operations in the Appalachian Basin are adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions, primarily in the winter and spring. Many municipalities impose weight restrictions on the paved roads that lead to our jobsites due to the muddy conditions caused by spring thaws. This limits our access to these jobsites and our ability to service wells in these areas. Properties that we buy may not produce as projected and we may be unable to determine reserve potential, identify liabilities associated with the properties or obtain protection from sellers against such liabilities. One of our growth strategies is to capitalize on opportunistic acquisitions of natural gas and oil reserves. However, our reviews of acquired properties are inherently incomplete because it generally is not feasible to review in depth every individual property involved in each acquisition. Even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and potential. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as ground water contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Our hedging activities could result in financial losses or could reduce our income, which may adversely affect our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. We enter into hedging arrangements to reduce the impact of natural gas and oil price volatility on our cash flow from operations. Currently, we use a combination of fixed-price swaps and NYMEX collars and put options to hedge natural gas and oil prices. Please read “Item 1—Operations— Hedging Activities” and “Item 7A—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk.” Our actual future production may be significantly higher or lower than we estimate at the time we enter into hedging transactions for such period. If the actual amount of production is higher than we estimate, we will have greater commodity price exposure than we intended. If the actual amount of production is lower than the notional amount that is subject to our derivative financial instruments, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our derivative transactions without the benefit of the cash flow from our sale or purchase of the underlying physical commodity, resulting in a substantial diminution of our liquidity. As a result of these factors, our hedging activities may not be as effective as we intend in reducing the volatility of our cash flows, and in certain circumstances may actually increase the volatility of our cash flows. In addition, our hedging activities are subject to the following risks: · a counterparty may not perform its obligation under the applicable derivative instrument; · there may be a change in the expected differential between the underlying commodity price in the derivative instrument and the actual price received; and 24 · the steps we take to monitor our derivative financial instruments may not detect and prevent violations of our risk management policies and procedures If the Asher lease is terminated or if Nami Resource LLC’s rights to production under wells in which we have a contract right to receive proceeds from the sale of production are adversely affected, we could lose our contract right to receive proceeds from the sale of production or it could be adversely affected. Nami Resources, LLC, a subsidiary of our Predecessor that was retained by Nami in connection with the Restructuring has been involved in an ongoing dispute with Asher Land and Mineral Company, Ltd., or Asher, pursuant to which Asher claims that Nami Resources Company, LLC did not correctly calculate the royalties paid to it and that it failed to abide by certain terms of the leases relating to the coordination of oil and gas development with coal development activities. As part of our separation from Vinland, we received from Nami Resources Company, LLC a contract right to receive approximately 99% of the net proceeds, after deducting royalties paid to other parties, severance taxes, third-party transportation costs, costs incurred in the operation of wells and overhead costs, from the sale of production from certain producing oil and gas wells located within the Asher lease, which accounted for 4.5% of our proved reserves as of December 31, 2007. The Asher lease and the litigation related thereto were retained by Nami Resources Company, LLC. If the Asher lease is terminated or if Nami Resources Company, LLC rights to production under wells in which we have a contract right to receive proceeds from the sale of production are adversely affected, we could lose our contract right to receive proceeds from the sale of production or it could be adversely affected. We are exposed to trade credit risk in the ordinary course of our business activities. We are exposed to risks of loss in the event of nonperformance by our customers and by counterparties to our hedging arrangements. Some of our customers and counterparties may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. Even if our credit review and analysis mechanisms work properly, we may experience financial losses in our dealings with other parties. Any increase in the nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers and/or counterparties could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We depend on senior management personnel, each of whom would be difficult to replace. We depend on the performance of Scott W. Smith, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Richard A. Robert, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Britt Pence, our Vice President of Engineering. We maintain no key person insurance for either Mr. Smith, Mr. Robert or Mr. Pence. The loss of any or all of Messrs. Smith, Robert and Pence could negatively impact our ability to execute our strategy and our results of operations. If we fail to develop or maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential unitholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our units. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. We cannot be certain that our efforts to develop and maintain our internal controls will be successful, that we will be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or that we will be able to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any failure to develop or maintain effective internal controls, or difficulties encountered in implementing or improving our internal controls, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our units. We may be unable to compete effectively with larger companies, which may adversely affect our ability to generate sufficient revenue to allow us to pay distributions to our unitholders. The natural gas and oil industry is intensely competitive, and we compete with other companies that have greater resources. Our ability to acquire additional properties and to discover reserves in the future will be dependent upon our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Many of our larger competitors not only drill for and produce natural gas and oil, but also carry on refining operations and market petroleum and other products on a regional, national or worldwide basis. These companies may be able to pay more for natural gas properties and evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties than our financial or human resources permit. 25 In addition, these companies may have a greater ability to continue drilling activities during periods of low natural gas and oil prices and to absorb the burden of present and future federal, state, local and other laws and regulations. Our inability to compete effectively with larger companies could have a material adverse impact on our business activities, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Our operations are regulated extensively at the federal, state and local levels. Environmental and other governmental laws and regulations have increased the costs to plan, design, drill, install, operate and abandon natural gas and oil wells. Under these laws and regulations, we could also be liable for personal injuries, property and natural resource damage and other damages. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Moreover, public interest in environmental protection has increased in recent years, and environmental organizations have opposed, with some success, certain drilling projects. Part of the regulatory environment in which we operate includes, in some cases, legal requirements for obtaining environmental assessments, environmental impact studies and/or plans of development before commencing drilling and production activities. In addition, our activities are subject to the regulations regarding conservation practices and protection of correlative rights. These regulations affect our operations and limit the quantity of natural gas we may produce and sell. A major risk inherent in our drilling plans is the need to obtain drilling permits from state and local authorities. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals or drilling permits, the failure to obtain a drilling permit for a well or the receipt of a permit with unreasonable conditions or costs could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop our properties. Additionally, the natural gas and oil regulatory environment could change in ways that might substantially increase the financial and managerial costs of compliance with these laws and regulations and, consequently, adversely affect our profitability. At this time, we cannot predict the effect of this increase on our results of operations. Furthermore, we may be put at a competitive disadvantage to larger companies in our industry who can spread these additional costs over a greater number of wells and larger operating staff. Please read “Item1—Business—Operations—Environmental Matters and Regulation” and “Business—Operations—Other Regulation of the Natural Gas and Oil Industry” for a description of the laws and regulations that affect us. Shortages of drilling rigs, supplies, oilfield services, equipment and crews could delay our operations and reduce our cash available for distribution. Higher natural gas prices generally increase the demand for drilling rigs, supplies, services, equipment and crews, and can lead to shortages of, and increasing costs for, drilling equipment, services and personnel. Over the past three years, we and other natural gas and oil companies have experienced higher drilling and operating costs. Shortages of, or increasing costs for, experienced drilling crews and equipment and services could restrict our ability to drill the wells and conduct the operations that we currently have planned. Any delay in the drilling of new wells or significant increase in drilling costs could reduce our revenues and cash available for distribution. 26 Risks Related to Our Structure Mr. Nami, who together with certain of his affiliates and related persons, own approximately 27.1% of our outstanding common units, and certain members of our board of directors who are officers or directors of Vinland Energy Eastern may have conflicts of interest with us. The ultimate resolution of these conflicts of interest may result in favoring the interests of these other parties over our unitholders’ and may be to our detriment. Our limited liability company agreement limits the remedies available to our unitholders in the event unitholders have a claim relating to conflicts of interest. Two members of our board of directors are officers or directors or affiliates of Vinland, which is 90% owned by Nami. Conflicts of interest may arise between Nami and his affiliates, including Vinland, and certain members of our board of directors, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. These potential conflicts may relate to the divergent interests of these parties. Situations in which the interests of Nami and his affiliates, including Vinland, and certain members of our board of directors may differ from interests of owners of units include, among others, the following situations: · our limited liability company agreement gives our board of directors broad discretion in establishing cash reserves for the proper conduct of our business, which will affect the amount of cash available for distribution. For example, our board of directors will use its reasonable discretion to establish and maintain cash reserves sufficient to fund our drilling program; · none of our limited liability company agreement, management services agreement, participation agreement nor any other agreement requires Nami or any of his affiliates, including Vinland, to pursue a business strategy that favors us. Directors and officers of Vinland and its subsidiaries have a fiduciary duty while acting in the capacity as such director or officer of Vinland or such subsidiary to make decisions in the best interests of the members or stockholders of Vinland, which may be contrary to our best interests; · we rely on Vinland to operate and develop our properties in Appalachia; · we depend on Vinland to gather, compress, deliver and provide services necessary for us to market our natural gas production; · we intend to rely on Vinland to provide us with opportunities for the acquisition of natural gas and oil reserves, however, Vinland does not have an obligation to provide us with such opportunities; and · Nami and his affiliates, including Vinland, are not prohibited from investing or engaging in other businesses or activities that compete with us. If in resolving conflicts of interest that exist or arise in the future our board of directors or officers, as the case may be, satisfy the applicable standards set forth in our limited liability company agreement for resolving conflicts of interest, unitholders will not be able to assert that such resolution constituted a breach of fiduciary duty owed to us or to unitholders by our board of directors and officers. We may issue additional units without unitholder approval, which would dilute their existing ownership interests. We may issue an unlimited number of limited liability company interests of any type, including units, without the approval of our unitholders. The issuance of additional units or other equity securities may have the following effects: · the proportionate ownership interest of unitholders in us may decrease; · the amount of cash distributed on each unit may decrease; · the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and · the market price of the units may decline. 27 Our limited liability company agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our units. Our limited liability company agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders by providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than Nami and his affiliates or transferees and persons who acquire such units with the prior approval of the board of directors, cannot vote on any matter. Our limited liability agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Our limited liability company agreement provides for a limited call right that may require unitholders to sell their units at an undesirable time or price. If, at any time, any person owns more than 90% of the units then outstanding, such person has the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the remaining units then outstanding at a price not less than the then-current market price of the units. As a result, unitholders may be required to sell their units at an undesirable time or price and therefore may receive a lower or no return on their investment. Unitholders may also incur tax liability upon a sale of their units. The price of our common units could be subject to wide fluctuations, unitholders could lose a significant part of their investment. The market price of our common units could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot control, including: · changes in securities analysts’ recommendations and their estimates of our financial performance; · the public’s reaction to our press releases, announcements and our filings with the SEC; · fluctuations in broader securities market prices and volumes, particularly among securities of natural gas and oil companies and securities of publicly traded limited partnerships and limited liability companies; · changes in market valuations of similar companies; · departures of key personnel; · commencement of or involvement in litigation; · variations in our quarterly results of operations or those of other natural gas and oil companies; · variations in the amount of our quarterly cash distributions; · future issuances and sales of our units; and · changes in general conditions in the U.S. economy, financial markets or the natural gas and oil industry. In recent years, the securities market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Future market fluctuations may result in a lower price of our common units. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 18-607 of the Delaware Revised Limited Liability Company Act, or the “Delaware Act”, we may not make a distribution to unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of an impermissible distribution, members or unitholders who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited liability company for the distribution amount. 28 A purchaser of common units who becomes a member or unitholder is liable for the obligations of the transferring member to make contributions to the limited liability company that are known to such purchaser of units at the time it became a member and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from our limited liability company agreement. An increase in interest rates may cause the market price of our common units to decline. Like all equity investments, an investment in our common units is subject to certain risks. In exchange for accepting these risks, investors may expect to receive a higher rate of return than would otherwise be obtainable from lower-risk investments. Accordingly, as interest rates rise, the ability of investors to obtain higher risk-adjusted rates of return by purchasing government-backed debt securities may cause a corresponding decline in demand for riskier investments generally, including yield-based equity investments such as publicly-traded limited liability company interests. Reduced demand for our units resulting from investors seeking other more favorable investment opportunities may cause the trading price of our common units to decline. Tax Risks to Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or we were to become subject to additional amounts of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, taxes paid, if any, would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter that affects us. Despite the fact that we are a limited liability company (LLC) under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for an LLC such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. Although we do not believe based upon our current operations that we are so treated, a change in our business (or a change in current law) could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rates, currently at a maximum rate of 35%, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gain, loss, deduction or credit would flow through to unitholders. Because a tax may be imposed on us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders could be reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Current law or our business may change so as to cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation. At the federal level, legislation has been proposed that would eliminate partnership tax treatment for certain publicly traded LLCs. Although such legislation would not apply to us as currently proposed, it could be amended prior to enactment in a manner that does apply to us. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted. Moreover, any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our units. At the state level, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships and limited liability companies to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. For example, we are required to pay Texas franchise tax at a maximum effective rate of 0.7% of our gross income apportioned to Texas in the prior year. If any other state were to impose a tax upon us as an entity, the cash available for distribution to unitholders would be reduced. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our units may be adversely impacted and the costs of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter that affects us. 29 The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take and a court may disagree with some or all of those positions. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will result in a reduction in cash available for distribution to our unitholders and thus will be borne indirectly by our unitholders. Unitholders may be required to pay taxes on income from us even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, unitholders will be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income, whether or not they receive cash distributions from us. Unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from their share of our taxable income. Tax gain or loss on disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If unitholders sell their common units, they will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of a unitholder’s allocable share of our net taxable income decreases the tax basis in the unitholder’s common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units they sell will, in effect, become taxable income to them if they sell such units at a price greater than their tax basis in those units, even if the price they receive is less than their original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if a unitholders sells their units, they may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash they receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in units by tax-exempt entities, including employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to such a unitholder. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes imposed at the highest effective applicable tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file United States federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If you are a tax exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our units. We treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform with all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain on the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audits of and adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. 30 A unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, he may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and our unitholders could receive two Schedules K-1) for one fiscal year and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax election and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred. As a result of investing in our common units, you may become subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where we operate or own or acquire property. In addition to federal income taxes, you will likely be subject to other taxes, including foreign, state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if you do not live in any of those jurisdictions. You will likely be required to file foreign, state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, you may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently own property and conduct business in Kentucky, New Mexico, Tennessee and Texas. Each of these states, other than Texas, imposes an income tax on individuals. Most of these states also impose an income tax on corporations and other entities. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is your responsibility to file all United States federal, foreign, state and local tax returns. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 