Item 1A. Risk Factors The factors described below represent our principal risks. Our stockholders or potential investors may be referred to as “you” or “your” in this Item 1A, “Risk Factors” section.This Item 1A includes forward-looking statements. You should refer to our discussion of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements in the subsection entitled “Forward-Looking Statements” included in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.The concentration of our investments in the multifamily sector may leave our profitability vulnerable to a downturn or slowdown in such sector.Our investments are concentrated in the multifamily sector. As a result, we are subject to risks inherent in investments in multifamily properties and real estate-related assets. The potential effects on our revenues, and as a result, on cash available for distribution to our stockholders, resulting from a downturn or slowdown in the multifamily sector could be more pronounced than if we had more fully diversified our investments.Local conditions in the markets in which we own multifamily communities or in which the collateral securing our loans is located may significantly affect occupancy or rental rates at such properties.Local conditions in the markets in which we own multifamily communities or in which the collateral securing our loans is located may significantly affect occupancy or rental rates at such properties. The risks that may adversely affect conditions in those markets include the following:•layoffs, plant closings, industry slowdowns, relocations of significant local employers and other events negatively impacting local employment rates and the local economy;•an oversupply of, or a lack of demand for, multifamily and single family housing; •a decline in household formation;•the inability or unwillingness of residents to pay rent increases; and•rent control or rent stabilization laws or other housing laws, which could prevent us from raising rents.For these and other reasons, we cannot assure you that we will be profitable or that we will realize growth in the value of our investments.Competition in the multifamily market may adversely affect our operations and the rental demand for our multifamily communities.There are numerous housing alternatives that compete with our multifamily communities in attracting residents. These include other multifamily communities, condominiums and single-family homes that are available for rent in the markets in which our multifamily communities are located. If the demand for our multifamily communities is reduced or if competitors develop and/or acquire competing multifamily communities, rental rates may drop, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We also face competition from other REITs, businesses and other entities in the acquisition, development and operation of multifamily communities. This competition may result in an increase in costs and prices of multifamily communities that we acquire and/or develop.Our failure to integrate acquired communities and new personnel could create inefficiencies and reduce the return of your investment.To grow successfully, we must be able to apply our experience in managing real estate to a larger number of properties. In addition, we must be able to integrate new management and operations personnel as our organization grows in size and complexity. Failures in either area will result in inefficiencies that could adversely affect our expected return on our investments and our overall profitability.Short-term multifamily community leases expose us to the effects of declining market rent and could adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our stockholders.Substantially all of our multifamily community leases are for a term of one year or less. Because these leases generally permit the residents to leave at the end of the lease term without penalty, our rental revenues may be impacted by declines in market rents more quickly than if our leases were for longer terms, which could adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our stockholders.11Table of ContentsOur investments are dependent on residents for revenue, and lease terminations could reduce our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.The success of our real property investments is materially dependent on the financial stability of our residents. Lease payment defaults by residents could cause us to reduce the amount of distributions to our stockholders. A default by a significant number of residents on his or her lease payments to us would cause us to lose the revenue associated with such lease and cause us to have to find an alternative source of revenue to meet mortgage payments and prevent a foreclosure if the property is subject to a mortgage. In the event of a lease default, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as landlord and may incur substantial costs in protecting our investment and re-letting our property. If a substantial number of leases are terminated, we cannot assure you that we will be able to lease the property for the rent previously received or sell the property without incurring a loss. Additionally, loans that we make generally will relate to real estate. As a result, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be dependent on the financial stability of our residents leasing the related real estate.We may be unable to renew leases or relet units as leases expire.When our residents decide not to renew their leases upon expiration, we may not be able to relet their units. Even if the residents do renew or we can relet the units, the terms of renewal or reletting may be less favorable than current lease terms. If we are unable to promptly renew the leases or relet the units, or if the rental rates upon renewal or reletting are significantly lower than expected rates, then our results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. We may be required to make significant capital expenditures to improve our apartment homes in order to retain and attract residents or to sell, upgrade or reposition an apartment community in the market.When residents do not renew their leases or otherwise vacate their space, in order to attract replacement residents, or to attract new residents, we may be required to expend funds for capital improvements to the vacated apartment homes. In addition, we may require substantial funds to renovate an apartment community in order to sell it, upgrade it or reposition it in the market. If we have insufficient capital reserves, we will have to obtain financing from other sources. We intend to establish capital reserves in an amount we, in our discretion, believe is necessary. A lender also may require escrow of capital reserves in excess of any established reserves. If these reserves or any reserves otherwise established are designated for other uses or are insufficient to meet our cash needs, we may have to obtain financing from either affiliated or unaffiliated sources to fund our cash requirements. We cannot assure you that sufficient financing will be available or, if available, will be available on economically feasible terms or on terms acceptable to us. Moreover, certain reserves required by lenders may be designated for specific uses and may not be available for capital purposes such as future capital improvements. Additional borrowing for capital needs and capital improvements will increase our interest expense, and therefore our financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our stockholders may be adversely affected.Communities that have significant vacancies could be difficult to sell, which could diminish the return on your investment.A community may incur vacancies either by the continued default of residents under their leases or the expiration of leases. If vacancies continue for a long period of time, we may suffer reduced revenues resulting in decreased distributions to our stockholders. In addition, the resale value of the community could be diminished because the market value of a particular property will depend primarily upon the value of the leases of such property.Difficulty of selling multifamily communities could limit flexibility. Federal tax laws may (subject to a statutory “safe harbor”) limit our ability to earn a gain on the sale of a community (unless we own it through a subsidiary which will incur a taxable gain upon sale) if we are found to have held, acquired or developed the community primarily with the intent to resell the community or otherwise hold the asset as a “dealer,” and this limitation may affect our ability to sell communities without adversely affecting returns to our stockholders. In addition, real estate in our markets can at times be difficult to sell quickly at prices we find acceptable. These potential difficulties in selling real estate in our markets may limit our ability to change our portfolio or dispose of communities in our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions.Our operating results will be affected by economic and regulatory changes that have an adverse impact on the real estate market in general, and we cannot assure you that we will be profitable or that we will realize growth in the value of our communities.Our operating results will be subject to risks generally incident to the ownership of real estate, including:•changes in general economic or local conditions;•changes in supply of or demand for similar or competing properties in an area;•changes in interest rates and availability of permanent mortgage funds that may render the sale of a property difficult or unattractive;12Table of Contents•the illiquidity of real estate investments generally;•changes in tax, real estate, environmental and zoning laws;•periods of high interest rates and tight money supply;•availability of low interest mortgages for single family home buyers;•geopolitical instability;•residents' perceptions of the safety, convenience and attractiveness of our properties and the neighborhoods where they are located; and•our ability to provide adequate management, maintenance and insurance.For these and other reasons, we cannot assure you that we will be profitable or that we will realize growth in the value of our real estate properties.Our operating results may be negatively affected by potential development and construction delays and result in increased costs and risks, which could diminish the return on your investment.Expansion, development and redevelopment projects entail the following considerable risks which can result in increased costs of a project or loss of our investment and could diminish the return on your investment:•We may delay or abandon development and redevelopment opportunities that we have already begun to explore for a number of reasons, including changes in local market rental rates or other operating conditions, unsatisfactory performance by our developer partners or increases in construction or financing costs, and, as a result, we may fail to recover expenses already incurred in exploring these opportunities.•The construction costs of a development or redevelopment property, due to factors such as cost overruns, design changes and timing delays arising from a lack of availability of materials and labor, weather conditions and other factors outside of our control, as well as financing costs, may exceed original estimates, which are based on market conditions at the time we prepare our budgets, possibly making the associated investment unprofitable. •Occupancy rates and rents at a new development or redevelopment community may fail to meet our original expectations or be sufficient to fully offset the effects of any increased construction or reconstruction costs for a number of reasons, including changes in market and economic conditions beyond our control and the development by competitors of competing communities.•We may incur liabilities from third parties during the development or redevelopment process, including in connection with managing existing improvements on the site prior to tenant terminations and demolition (such as with respect to commercial space) or in connection with providing services to third parties (such as the construction of shared infrastructure or other improvements).•There may be a significant time lag between commencement and completion of the development or redevelopment project, subjecting us to greater risks due to fluctuations in the general economy. •We may not complete construction and leasing of a community on schedule, which may result in increased debt service expenses and construction or renovation costs, and could give prospective residents the right to terminate preconstruction leases for a newly developed project.•Significant changes in economic conditions could adversely affect our ability to attract prospective residents and to lease newly developed and redeveloped communities.•We will be subject to risks relating to uncertainties associated with rezoning for development and environmental concerns of governmental entities and/or community groups.•Our developer may fail to control construction costs or to build in conformity with plans, specifications and timetables, which could necessitate legal action by us to rescind the purchase or the construction contract or to compel performance. Performance may also be affected or delayed by conditions beyond the developer's control.•We may incur additional risks when we make periodic progress payments or other advances to such developers prior to completion of construction.•We will be subject to normal lease up risks relating to newly constructed projects.•We must also rely upon projections of rental income and expenses and estimates of the fair market value of a community upon completion of construction when agreeing upon a price to be paid for the community at the time of acquisition of the community. If our projections are inaccurate, we may pay too much for a community, and the return on our investment could suffer.In addition, we may invest in unimproved real property or loans on unimproved property. Returns from development of unimproved properties are also subject to risks and uncertainties associated with rezoning the land for development and environmental concerns of governmental entities and/or community groups.13Table of ContentsUnbudgeted capital expenditures or cost overruns for ongoing or planned development or redevelopment projects could adversely affect business operations and cash flow.If capital expenditures for ongoing or planned development or redevelopment projects exceed expectations or if such additional capital expenditures are to be reimbursed by the general contractor or the developer partner and are not, the additional cost of these expenditures could have an adverse effect on business operations and cash flow. Such additional costs could cause us to be in default under construction financing agreements, which may require us to pay off all or a portion of the financing. In any of these situations, we might not have access to funds on a timely basis to pay the unexpected expenditures or obligations.Further, we may guarantee all or a portion of the construction financing, including the obligation to pay interest on the financing until the development project is completed, leased up and permanent financing is obtained or the construction loan is otherwise paid. Unexpected delays in the completion of development or redevelopment projects, unexpected cost increases or budget overruns could also have a significant adverse impact on business operations and cash flow.Development projects in which we invest may not be completed successfully or on time, and guarantors of the projects may not have the financial resources to perform their obligations under the guaranties they provide.We may make equity investments in, acquire options to purchase interests in or make mezzanine loans to the owners of multifamily development projects. Our return on these investments is dependent upon the projects being completed successfully, on budget and on time. We may rely upon the substantial net worth of the contractor or developer or a guarantee accompanied by financial statements showing a substantial net worth provided by an affiliate of the entity entering into the construction or development contract as an alternative to a completion bond or performance bond. For a particular investment, we may obtain guaranties that the project will be completed at a specified time, on budget and in accordance with the plans and specifications. However, we may not obtain such guaranties and cannot ensure that the guarantors will have the financial resources to perform their obligations under the guaranties they provide. On a more limited basis, we may also utilize completion or performance bonds to help ensure performance by the developers. We intend to manage these risks by ensuring, to the best of our ability, that we invest in projects with reputable, experienced and resourceful developers. If we are unable to manage these risks effectively, our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make distributions to you will be adversely affected.Developers of the projects in which we invest are exposed to risks, which could increase our risk of loss in the event a developer fails to perform its obligations to us.The developers of the projects in which we invest are exposed to risks not only with respect to our projects, but also with respect to other projects in which they are involved. A developer's obligations on another project could cause it financial hardship and even lead to bankruptcy, which could lead to a default on one of our projects. A default by a developer in respect of one of our multifamily development project investments, or the bankruptcy, insolvency or other failure of a developer for one of such projects, may require that we determine whether we want to assume the senior loan, take over development of the project, find another developer for the project, or sell our interest in the project. Such developer failures could delay efforts to complete or sell the development project and could ultimately preclude us from full realization of our anticipated returns. Such events could cause a decrease in the value of our assets and compel us to seek additional sources of liquidity, which may not be available, in order to hold and complete the development project through stabilization.Generally, under bankruptcy law and our bankruptcy guarantees with our development partners, we may seek recourse from the developer-guarantor to complete our development project with a substitute developer partner. However, in the event of a bankruptcy by the developer-guarantor, we cannot assure you that the developer or its trustee will continue or otherwise satisfy its obligations. The bankruptcy of any developer and the rejection of its development obligations would likely cause us to have to complete the development on our own or find a replacement developer, which could result in delays and increased costs. We cannot assure you that we would be able to complete the development on terms as favorable as when we first entered into the project.In some cases, in order to obtain financing on a development project, we may be asked to provide recourse, completion or payment guarantees to the lender. If the developer fails to complete the project, if the project is delayed or if the completed project fails to generate the expected cash flow, we may be liable under a loan guaranty. The occurrence of any such events may have a negative impact on our results of operations and our ability to pay distributions. Risks associated with co-ownership arrangements with our co-venture partners, co-tenants or other partners.As of December 31, 2015, 39 of our 56 investments in multifamily communities have been made through Co-Investment Ventures. In the future, we may enter into additional joint ventures or other co-ownership arrangements for the acquisition, development or improvement of communities as well as the acquisition of real estate-related investments. We may 14Table of Contentsalso purchase and develop communities in joint ventures or in partnerships, co-tenancies or other co-ownership arrangements with the sellers of the communities, affiliates of the sellers, developers or other persons. Such investments may involve risks not otherwise present with other forms of real estate investment, including the possibility that our partner in an investment might be unable to or otherwise refuse to make capital contributions when due; that we may incur liabilities as the result of action taken by our partner; that our partner might at any time have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours; and that our partner may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests. Frequently, we and our partner may each have the right to trigger a buy/sell arrangement, which could cause us to sell our interest, or acquire our partner’s interest, at a time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.Under certain circumstances, assets owned by a subsidiary REIT may be required to be disposed of via a sale of capital stock rather than an asset sale.Under certain circumstances, assets owned by a subsidiary REIT may be required to be disposed of via a sale of capital stock rather than as an asset sale by that subsidiary REIT, which may limit the number of persons willing to acquire indirectly any assets held by that subsidiary REIT. As a result, we may not be able to realize a return on our investment in a joint venture, such as a PGGM CO-JV or MW CO-JV, at the time or on the terms we desire.If we have insufficient capital resources to exercise an option to purchase, or comply with a put right that requires us to purchase, an interest of one of our joint venture partners, our results from operations may be adversely affected.We have, and may have in the future, interests under joint venture agreements that are subject to buy/sell rights. If we are not able to maintain sufficient cash, available borrowing capacity or other capital resources to allow us to elect to purchase, or satisfy an obligation to purchase, an interest of a co-venture partner, we may be forced to forego an investment opportunity or sell our interest when we would otherwise prefer not to sell the interest, and may be exposed to potential liability for a breach of an obligation under a joint venture agreement. Any of the foregoing events could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.The form, timing and/or amount of distributions in future periods may vary and be impacted by economic and other considerations.The form, timing and/or amount of cash distributions to our stockholders will be declared at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on actual cash from operations, our financial condition, capital requirements, the annual distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Code and other factors as our board of directors may consider relevant. Our board of directors may modify our distribution policy from time to time.Our revenue and net income may vary significantly from one period to another due to investments in properties in various phases of development, redevelopment or repositioning, which could increase the variability of our cash available for distributions.We have made and may continue to make investments in properties in various phases of development, redevelopment or repositioning, which may cause our revenues and net income to fluctuate significantly from one period to another. Projects do not produce revenue while in development or redevelopment. During any period when the number of our projects in development or redevelopment, communities in lease up or our properties with significant capital requirements increases without a corresponding increase in stable revenue-producing communities, our revenues and net income will likely decrease. Many factors may have a negative impact on the level of revenues or net income produced by our portfolio of investments, including higher than expected construction costs, failure to complete projects on a timely basis, failure of the communities to perform at expected levels upon completion of development or redevelopment, and increased borrowings necessary to fund higher than expected construction or other costs related to the project. Further, our net income and stockholders' equity could be negatively affected during periods with large portfolio acquisitions, which generally require large cash outlays and may require the incurrence of additional financing. Any such reduction in our revenues and net income during such periods could cause a resulting decrease in our cash available for distributions during the same periods.We may have to make decisions on whether to invest in certain communities or real estate-related investments prior to receipt of detailed information on the investment.In order to effectively compete for the acquisition of communities and other real estate-related investments in the current market, we may be required to make investment decisions and be required to make substantial non-refundable deposits prior to the completion of our analysis and due diligence on a community or real estate-related asset investments. In such cases, the information available to us at the time of making any particular investment decision, including the decision to pay any non-refundable deposit and the decision to consummate any particular investment, may be limited, and we may not have access to detailed information regarding any particular investment community, such as physical characteristics, environmental matters, 15Table of Contentszoning regulations or other local conditions affecting the investment community. Therefore, no assurance can be given that we will have knowledge of all circumstances that may adversely affect an investment. In addition, we may rely upon independent consultants in connection with their evaluation of proposed investment communities, and no assurance can be given as to the accuracy or completeness of the information provided by such independent consultants.Uninsured losses relating to real property or excessively expensive premiums for insurance coverage may adversely affect your returns.We maintain comprehensive insurance coverage for general liability, property and other risks on all of our apartment communities. However, there are types of losses, generally catastrophic in nature, such as losses due to wars, acts of terrorism, earthquakes, pollution, environmental matters or extreme weather conditions such as hurricanes, floods and snowstorms that are uninsurable or not economically insurable, or may be insured subject to limitations, such as large deductibles or co-payments. Insurance risks associated with potential terrorist acts could sharply increase the premiums we pay for coverage against property and casualty claims. Mortgage lenders may require that specific coverage against terrorism be purchased by property owners as a condition for providing mortgage, bridge or mezzanine loans. It is uncertain whether such insurance policies will continue to be available, or be available at reasonable cost, which could inhibit our ability to finance or refinance our properties. In such instances, we may be required to provide other financial support, either through financial assurances or self-insurance, to cover potential losses. In addition, the nature of the activities at certain communities we may acquire may expose us and our operators to potential liability for personal injuries and property damage claims. We cannot assure you that we will have adequate coverage for any such losses. In the event that any of our communities incurs a casualty loss that is not fully covered by insurance, the value of our assets will be reduced by the amount of any such uninsured loss. In addition, other than any potential capital reserves or other reserves we may establish, we have no source of funding to repair or reconstruct any uninsured damaged community, and we cannot assure you that any such sources of funding will be available to us for such purposes in the future. Also, to the extent we must pay unexpectedly large amounts for insurance, we could suffer reduced earnings that would result in decreased distributions to stockholders.We are subject to risks from natural disasters such as earthquakes and severe weather.Natural disasters and severe weather such as earthquakes, tornadoes or hurricanes may result in significant damage to our properties. The extent of our casualty losses and loss in operating income in connection with such events is a function of the severity of the event and the total amount of exposure in the affected area. When we have geographic concentration of exposures, a single catastrophe (such as an earthquake, especially in our Northern California or Southern California markets) or destructive weather event (such as a hurricane, especially within our South Florida or Mid-Atlantic markets) affecting a region may have a significant negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2015, we owned or had an ownership interest in properties that are located in the San Francisco Bay Area, Southern California, Florida and the Washington, D.C. Area. Our financial results may be adversely affected by our exposure to losses arising from natural disasters or severe weather.We are also exposed to risks associated with inclement winter weather, particularly in our New England, Mid-Atlantic and Colorado markets in which many of our properties are located, including increased costs for the removal of snow and ice as well as from delays in construction. Inclement weather also could increase the need for maintenance and repair of our properties.Climate change may adversely affect our business.To the extent that climate change does occur, we may experience extreme weather and changes in precipitation and temperature, all of which may result in physical damage or a decrease in demand for our communities located in these areas or affected by these conditions. Should the impact of climate change be material in nature or occur for lengthy periods of time, our financial condition or results of operations would be adversely affected.In addition, changes in federal and state legislation and regulation on climate change could result in increased capital expenditures to improve the energy efficiency of our existing communities and could also require us to spend more on our new development communities without a corresponding increase in revenue. For example, various federal, regional and state laws and regulations have been implemented or are under consideration to mitigate the effects of climate change caused by greenhouse gas emissions. Among other things, “green” building codes may seek to reduce emissions through the imposition of standards for design, construction materials, water and energy usage and efficiency and waste management. The imposition of such requirements in the future could increase the costs of maintaining or improving our existing properties or developing new communities.16Table of ContentsThe costs of compliance with environmental laws and other governmental laws and regulations may adversely affect our income and the cash available for any distributions.All real property and the operations conducted on real property are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and human health and safety. Many environmental laws restrict the manner in which property may be used or businesses may be operated, and these restrictions may require substantial expenditures. These laws and regulations generally govern wetlands protection, storm water runoff, wastewater discharges, air emissions, the operation and removal of underground and above-ground storage tanks, the use, storage, treatment, transportation and disposal of solid and hazardous materials, and the remediation of contamination associated with disposals. Such environmental laws often provide for sanctions in the event of noncompliance and may be enforced by governmental agencies or, in certain circumstances, by private parties. Some of these laws and regulations may impose joint and several liability on residents, owners or operators for the costs of investigation or remediation of contaminated communities, regardless of fault or the legality of the original disposal. Noncompliance with such laws and regulations may therefore subject us to fines and penalties. We can provide no assurance that we will not incur any material liabilities as a result of noncompliance with these laws and regulations. In addition, the presence of these substances, or the failure to properly remediate these substances, may adversely affect our ability to sell or rent the community or to use the community as collateral for future borrowing.High costs associated with the investigation or remediation of previously undetected environmentally hazardous conditions may adversely affect our operating results.We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental and public health laws, regulations and ordinances.Under various federal, state and local environmental and public health laws, ordinances and regulations, we may be required to investigate and remediate the effects of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at our communities (including in some cases natural substances such as methane and radon gas). We may also be held liable under these laws or common law to a governmental entity or to third parties for property, personal injury or natural resources damages and for investigation and remediation costs incurred as a result of the contamination. These laws often impose liability whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. The costs of investigation, removal or remediation and of defending against claims of environmental liability or paying personal injury claims could be substantial and may exceed any insurance coverage that we have for such events. The presence of such substances, or the failure to properly remediate the contamination, may adversely affect our ability to borrow against, sell or rent the affected community. In addition, some environmental laws create or allow a government agency to impose a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs as a result of the contamination.We may face risks relating to chemical vapors and subsurface contamination.We are also aware that environmental agencies and third parties have, in the case of certain properties with on-site or nearby contamination, asserted claims for remediation, property damage or personal injury based on the alleged actual or potential intrusion into buildings of chemical vapors or volatile organic compounds from soils or groundwater underlying or in the vicinity of those buildings or in nearby properties. In addition, some of our retail tenants, such as dry cleaners, may operate businesses which may emit chemical vapors or otherwise use chemicals subject to environmental regulation. We can provide no assurance that we will not incur any material liabilities as a result of vapor intrusion at our communities.We may face risks relating to microbial matter growth.Microbial matter growth may occur when excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Although the occurrence of microbial matter at multifamily and other structures, and the need to remediate such microbial matter, is not a new phenomenon, there has been increased awareness in recent years that certain microbial matters may produce airborne toxins or irritants and exposure to such microbial matter may cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. If a significant microbial matter problem were to arise at one of our communities, we could be required to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the microbial matter from the affected community and could be exposed to other liabilities that may exceed any applicable insurance coverage, thereby reducing our operating results.Our environmental assessments may not identify all potential environmental liabilities and our remediation actions may be insufficient.Operating communities or land being considered for potential acquisition by us are subjected to at least a Phase I or similar environmental assessment prior to closing, which generally does not involve invasive techniques such as soil or ground water sampling. A Phase II assessment is conducted if recommended in the Phase I report. These assessments may not identify all potential environmental liabilities. Moreover, we may in the future discover adverse environmental conditions at our properties, including at properties we acquire in the future, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, assets, 17Table of Contentsfinancial condition or results of operations. In connection with our ownership, operation and development of communities, from time to time we undertake substantial remedial action in response to the presence of subsurface or other contaminants, including contaminants in soil, groundwater and soil vapor beneath or affecting our buildings. In some cases, an indemnity exists upon which we may be able to rely if environmental liability arises from the contamination, or if remediation costs exceed estimates. We can provide no assurance, however, that all necessary remediation actions have been or will be undertaken at our properties or that we will be indemnified, in full or at all, in the event that environmental liability arises.Our costs associated with and the risk of failing to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and the Fair Housing Act may affect cash available for distributions.Our communities and the communities underlying our investments are expected to be subject to the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended (“Disabilities Act”). Under the Disabilities Act, all places of public accommodation are required to comply with federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. The Disabilities Act has separate compliance requirements for “public accommodations” and “commercial facilities” that generally require that buildings and services be made accessible and available to people with disabilities. The Disabilities Act's requirements could require removal of access barriers and could result in the imposition of injunctive relief, monetary penalties or, in some cases, an award of damages. We will attempt to acquire communities that comply with the Disabilities Act or similar laws of foreign jurisdictions or place the burden on the seller or other third party to comply with such laws. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to acquire communities or allocate responsibilities in this manner. If we cannot, our funds used for compliance with these laws may affect cash available for distributions and the amount of distributions to you.The multifamily communities in which we invest must comply with Title III of the Disabilities Act, to the extent that such communities are deemed “public accommodations” and/or “commercial facilities” as defined by the Disabilities Act. Compliance with the Disabilities Act could require removal of structural barriers to handicapped access in certain public areas of our multifamily communities where such removal is readily achievable. The Disabilities Act does not, however, consider residential communities, such as multifamily communities to be public accommodations or commercial facilities, except to the extent portions of such facilities, such as the leasing office, are open to the public.We also must comply with the Fair Housing Amendment Act of 1988 (“FHAA”), which requires that multifamily communities first occupied after March 13, 1991 be accessible to handicapped residents and visitors. Compliance with the FHAA could require removal of structural barriers to handicapped access in a community, including the interiors of apartment units covered under the FHAA. Recently there has been heightened scrutiny of multifamily communities for compliance with the requirements of the FHAA and Disabilities Act and an increasing number of substantial enforcement actions and private lawsuits have been brought against multifamily communities to ensure compliance with these requirements. Noncompliance with the FHAA and Disabilities Act could result in the imposition of fines, awards of damages to private litigants, payment of attorneys' fees and other costs to plaintiffs, substantial litigation costs and substantial costs of remediation.We will incur mortgage indebtedness and other borrowings, which will increase our business risks.We do not intend to incur mortgage debt on a particular community unless we believe the community's projected cash flow is sufficient to service the mortgage debt. However, if there is a shortfall in cash flow, then the amount available for distributions to stockholders may be affected. In addition, incurring mortgage debt increases the risk of loss because (1) loss in investment value is generally borne entirely by the borrower until such time as the investment value declines below the principal balance of the associated debt and (2) defaults on indebtedness secured by a community may result in foreclosure actions initiated by lenders and our loss of the community securing the loan that is in default. For tax purposes, a foreclosure of any of our communities would be treated as a sale of the community for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage. If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the community, we would recognize taxable income on foreclosure, but would not receive any cash proceeds from the foreclosure. We may give full or partial guarantees to lenders of mortgage debt on behalf of the entities that own our communities. When we give a guaranty on behalf of an entity that owns one of our communities, we will be responsible to our lender for satisfaction of the debt if it is not paid by such entity. If any mortgages contain cross-collateralization or cross-default provisions, there is a risk that more than one real community may be affected by a default. If any of our communities are foreclosed upon due to a default, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders will be adversely affected.We may from time to time be subject to litigation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be a party to various claims and routine litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. Some of these claims or others to which we may be subject from time to time may result in defense costs, settlements, fines or judgments against us, some of which are not, or cannot be, covered by insurance. Payment of any such costs, settlements, fines or judgments that are not insured could have an adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. In addition, 18Table of Contentscertain litigation or the resolution of certain litigation may affect the availability or cost of some of our insurance coverage, which could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow, expose us to increased risks that would be uninsured, or adversely impact our ability to attract officers and directors.We may not be able to refinance the mortgages on our multifamily communities on favorable terms or at all, which could reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders.We may not be able to refinance the mortgages on our multifamily communities when the loans come due on favorable terms or at all. If interest rates are higher when the communities are refinanced, we may not be able to refinance the communities at reasonable rates and our income could be reduced. If this occurs, it would reduce cash available for distribution to our stockholders, and it may prevent us from borrowing more money.Our financial condition and ability to pay distributions could be adversely affected by financial covenants under our credit facilities.We currently have a $200 million revolving credit facility (the “$200 Million Facility”) and a $150 million credit facility (the “$150 Million Facility”). The terms of the agreements for each of these credit facilities contain certain financial and operating covenants, including, among other things, leverage ratios, certain coverage ratios, as well as limitations on our ability to incur secured indebtedness. The credit facility agreements also contain customary default provisions including, among others, the failure to timely pay debt service issued thereunder and the failure to comply with our financial and operating covenants and cross-default provisions. These covenants could limit our ability to obtain additional funds needed to address liquidity needs or pursue growth opportunities or transactions that would provide substantial returns to our stockholders. In addition, a breach of these covenants could cause a default and accelerate payment of advances under the credit facility agreements, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.Beginning December 31, 2015, our $200 Million Facility agreement may also limit our ability to pay distributions in excess of 95% of our funds from operations generally calculated in accordance with the current definition of funds from operations adopted by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (“NAREIT”). For the year ended December 31, 2015, our declared distributions were 78% of our funds from operations during such period as calculated in accordance with the NAREIT definition. See Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Non-GAAP Financial Performance Measures - Funds from Operations” for additional information regarding our calculation of funds from operations and a reconciliation to GAAP net income. This covenant could limit our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders.Violating the covenants contained in either of our credit facility agreements would likely result in us incurring higher finance costs and fees and/or an acceleration of the maturity date of advances under the applicable credit facility agreement, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.Lenders may require us to enter into restrictive covenants relating to our operations, which could limit our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.In connection with obtaining financing, a lender could impose restrictions on us that affect our ability to incur additional debt and our distribution and operating policies. In general, we expect our loan agreements to restrict our ability to encumber or otherwise transfer our interest in the respective community without the prior consent of the lender. Loan documents we enter into may contain other negative covenants that may limit our ability to further mortgage the community, discontinue insurance coverage or impose other limitations. Any such restriction or limitation may have an adverse effect on our operations and limit our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.Our ability to obtain financing on reasonable terms could be impacted by volatile credit and capital market conditions.Commercial real estate debt markets have recently experienced volatility and uncertainty as a result of certain related factors, including the tightening of underwriting standards by lenders and credit rating agencies, macro-economic issues related to fiscal, tax and regulatory policies and global financial issues, including slowing growth in China, and recessionary implications. Should these conditions increase our overall cost of borrowings, either by increases in the index rates or by increases in lender spreads, we will need to factor such increases into the economics of our acquisitions, developments and property contributions. Investment returns on our assets and our ability to make acquisitions could be adversely affected by our inability to secure financing on reasonable terms, if at all.19Table of ContentsInterest-only indebtedness may increase our risk of default and ultimately may reduce our funds available for distribution to our stockholders.We may finance our acquisitions of multifamily communities using interest-only mortgage indebtedness. During the interest-only period, the amount of each scheduled payment will be less than that of a traditional amortizing mortgage loan. The principal balance of the mortgage loan will not be reduced (except in the case of prepayments) because there are no scheduled monthly payments of principal during this period. After the interest-only period, we will be required either to make scheduled payments of amortized principal and interest or to make a lump-sum or “balloon” payment at maturity. These required principal or balloon payments will increase the amount of our scheduled payments and may increase our risk of default under the related mortgage loan. If the mortgage loan has an adjustable interest rate, the amount of our scheduled payments also may increase at a time of rising interest rates. Increased payments and substantial principal or balloon maturity payments will reduce the funds available for distribution to our stockholders because cash otherwise available for distribution will be required to pay principal and interest associated with these mortgage loans.Increases in interest rates could increase the amount of our debt payments, adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and adversely affect the market price of our common stock.We may incur indebtedness that bears interest at a variable rate. In addition, from time to time we may pay mortgage loans or finance and refinance our communities in a rising interest rate environment. Accordingly, increases in interest rates could increase our interest costs, which could have an adverse effect on our cash flow from operating activities and our ability to make distributions to you. In addition, if rising interest rates cause us to need additional capital to repay indebtedness in accordance with its terms or otherwise, we may need to liquidate one or more of our investments at times that may not permit realization of the maximum return on these investments. Prolonged interest rate increases could also negatively impact our ability to make investments with positive economic returns. Additionally, an increase in market interest rates may lead investors of our common stock to demand a greater dividend yield, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.If we enter into financing arrangements involving balloon payment obligations, it may adversely affect our ability to make distributions.Some of our financing arrangements may require us to make a lump-sum or “balloon” payment at maturity. Our ability to make a balloon payment at maturity is uncertain and may depend upon our ability to obtain additional financing or our ability to sell the community underlying the mortgage. At the time the balloon payment is due, we may or may not be able to refinance the balloon payment on terms as favorable as the original loan or sell the community underlying the mortgage at a price sufficient to make the balloon payment. The effect of a refinancing or sale could affect the rate of return to stockholders and the projected time of disposition of our assets. In addition, payments of principal and interest made to service our debts may leave us with insufficient cash to pay the distributions that we are required to pay to maintain our qualification as a REIT and/or avoid federal income tax. Any of these events could have a significant, negative impact on your investment.We have relatively less experience investing in mortgage, bridge, mezzanine or other loans or debt securities relating to real estate as compared to investing directly in real property, which could adversely affect our return on loan investments.The experience of our employees with respect to investing in mortgage, bridge, mezzanine or other loans or debt securities relating to real estate is not as extensive as it is with respect to investments directly in real properties. However, we have made and may continue to make such loan investments to the extent we determine that it is advantageous to us due to the state of the real estate market or in order to diversify our investment portfolio. Our less extensive experience with respect to mortgage, bridge, mezzanine or other loans could adversely affect our return on loan investments.Our mortgage, bridge, mezzanine or other loans or debt securities may be impacted by unfavorable real estate market conditions, which could decrease the value of our loan investments.If we make or invest in mortgage, bridge, mezzanine or other loans or debt securities, we will be at risk of defaults on those loans caused by many conditions beyond our control, including local and other economic conditions affecting real estate values and interest rate levels. We do not know whether the values of the property securing the loans or debt securities will remain at the levels existing on the dates of origination of the loans. If the values of the underlying properties drop, our risk will increase and the values of our interests may decrease.Our mortgage, bridge, mezzanine or other loans or debt securities will be subject to interest rate fluctuations, which could reduce our returns as compared to market interest rates.If we invest in fixed-rate, long-term mortgage, bridge, mezzanine or other loans or debt securities and interest rates rise, the investments could yield a return lower than then-current market rates. If interest rates decrease, we will be adversely 20Table of Contentsaffected to the extent that mortgage, bridge, mezzanine or other loans or debt securities are prepaid, because we may not be able to make new investments at the previously higher interest rate.Investments in real estate-related preferred equity securities involve a greater risk of loss than traditional debt financing.We may invest in real estate-related preferred equity securities, which may involve a higher degree of risk than traditional debt financing due to a variety of factors, including that such investments are subordinate to traditional loans and are not secured by property underlying the investment. Furthermore, should the issuer default on our investment, we would be able to proceed only against the entity in which we have an interest, and not the property owned by such entity and underlying our investment. As a result, we may not recover some or all of our investment.Interest rate hedging arrangements may be costly and ineffective and may result in losses.We may use derivative financial instruments to hedge exposures to changes in exchange rates and interest rates on loans secured by our assets. Derivative instruments may include interest rate swap contracts, interest rate cap or floor contracts, futures or forward contracts, options or repurchase agreements. Although these instruments may partially protect against rising interest rates, they also may reduce the benefits to us if interest rates decline. If a hedging arrangement is not indexed to the same rate as the indebtedness that is hedged, we may be exposed to losses to the extent that the rate governing the indebtedness and the rate governing the hedging arrangement change independently of each other. Finally, nonperformance by the other party to the hedging arrangement may subject us to increased credit risks. In order to minimize counterparty credit risk, we enter into and expect to enter into hedging arrangements only with major financial institutions that have high credit ratings.If we lose or are unable to obtain key personnel or do not establish or maintain appropriate strategic relationships, our ability to implement our business strategies could be delayed or hindered.Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our executive officers and our other key personnel, including Mark T. Alfieri, Daniel Swanstrom, II, Howard S. Garfield, Daniel J. Rosenberg, Ross P. Odland, Margaret M. Daly, Robert T. Poynter, James A. Fadley and James J. McGinley, III, each of whom would be difficult to replace. The loss of the services of any of our key management personnel or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. As we expand, we will continue to try to attract and retain qualified additional key personnel, but may not be able to do so on acceptable terms. Further, we have established, and intend in the future to establish, strategic relationships with firms that have special expertise in certain services or as to assets both nationally and in certain geographic regions. Maintaining these relationships will be important for us to effectively compete for assets. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such strategic relationships. If we lose or are unable to obtain the services of executive officers and other key personnel or do not establish or maintain appropriate strategic relationships, our ability to implement our business strategies could be delayed or hindered, and our operations and financial results could suffer.We have transitioned to a self-managed REIT and therefore have less operating experience being self-managed than our public company peers.Between July 2013 through June 2014, we transitioned to a self-managed REIT. While we no longer bear all the costs of the various fees and expense reimbursements previously paid to our former external advisor and its affiliates, our expenses now include the compensation and benefits of our officers, employees and consultants, as well as overhead previously paid by our former external advisor or their affiliates. Our employees now provide us services historically provided by our former external advisor and its affiliates. We are also now subject to potential liabilities that are commonly faced by employers, such as workers' disability and compensation claims, potential labor disputes, and other employee-related liabilities and grievances, and we bear the costs of the establishment and maintenance of any employee compensation plans. In addition, we have limited experience operating as a self-managed REIT and we may encounter unforeseen costs, expenses, and difficulties associated with providing those services on a self-advised basis. If we incur unexpected expenses as a result of our self-management, our results of operations could be lower than they otherwise would have been. A breach of our privacy or information security systems could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition.Privacy and information security risks have generally increased in recent years because of the proliferation of new technologies and the increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators of cyber-attacks. As a result, privacy and information security and the continued development and enhancement of the controls and processes designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority for us.Our business requires us to use and store resident and employee personal identifying information. This may include names, addresses, phone numbers, email addresses, contact preferences, tax identification numbers and payment account information. We also engage third party service providers that may have access to such personal identifying information in 21Table of Contentsconnection with providing necessary information technology, security and other business services to us. The collection and use of personal identifiable information is governed by federal and state laws and regulations. Privacy and information security laws continue to evolve and may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. Compliance with all such laws and regulations may increase our operating costs and adversely impact our ability to market our communities. Resident and employee personal identifying information may be stored in hard copy or electronically by us and the third party service providers. Such information that is stored electronically may be at risk of cyber-attack. We devote significant resources to network security to protect our systems and data. Our security measures include user names and passwords to access information technology systems. We also use encryption and authentication technologies to secure the transmission and storage of data. These security measures, however, cannot provide absolute security. They may be compromised as a result of third-party security breaches, employee error, malfeasance, faulty password management, or other irregularity, and result in persons obtaining unauthorized access to company data or accounts, including personally identifiable information of residents and employees. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to enhance our information security measures and/or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. Regardless, we may experience a breach of our systems and may be unable to protect sensitive data. Moreover, if a computer security breach affects our systems, or those of our third party service providers, or results in the unauthorized release of personal identifying information, our reputation and brand could be materially damaged and materially adversely affect our business. We also may be exposed to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Interruptions or delays in service from our third-party data center hosting facility could harm our business.We utilize third-party data center hosting facilities. All of our data storage is conducted on servers in these facilities. Any damage to, or failure of, the systems of our third-party data centers or the failure of our data centers to meet our capacity requirements could impede or result in interruptions to our day-to-day business operations. Additionally, our failure to effectively manage and communicate our strategies with our third-party data centers, or their failure to perform as required or to properly protect our data, may result in operational difficulties which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If one of our third-party data centers fails, our other third-party data centers may not be able to meet our capacity requirements, which could result in interruptions to our business operations.The data centers have no obligation to renew their agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to renew our agreements with our data centers on commercially reasonable terms, we may experience costs or down time in connection with the transfer to new third-party providers.The occurrence of a natural disaster, an act of terrorism, vandalism or sabotage, a decision to close one or all of our third-party data centers without adequate notice, or other unanticipated problems at our data centers could result in lengthy interruptions in the day-to-day operations of our business. To date, we have not experienced these types of events, but we cannot provide any assurances that they will not occur in the future. If any such event were to occur to our business, our business could be harmed.Failure to qualify as a REIT would adversely affect our operations and our ability to make distributions.In order for us to qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy certain highly technical and complex requirements set forth in the Code and Treasury Regulations for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations, and which may be determined based on various factual matters and circumstances that are not entirely within our control. In addition, new legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly change the tax laws with respect to qualifying as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of qualifying. We believe we have been and are organized and qualified as a REIT, and we intend to operate in a manner that will permit us to continue to qualify as a REIT. However, we cannot assure you that we have qualified as a REIT, or that we will remain qualified as a REIT in the future.If we fail to qualify as a REIT for any taxable year, we will be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income for that year at corporate rates (subject to any applicable alternative minimum tax). In addition, we would generally be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year of losing our REIT status. Losing our REIT status would reduce our net earnings because of the additional tax liability. In addition, we would no longer be required to make distributions to our stockholders. Our failure to qualify as a REIT could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and would adversely affect your return on your investment.22Table of ContentsOur investment strategy may cause us to incur penalty taxes, lose our REIT status, or own and sell communities through taxable REIT subsidiaries, each of which could diminish the return to our stockholders.It is possible that one or more sales of our properties may be “prohibited transactions” under provisions of the Code. If we are deemed to have engaged in a “prohibited transaction” (i.e., we sell a community held by us outside of a TRS primarily for sale in the ordinary course of our trade or business) all income that we derive from such sale would be subject to a 100% penalty tax unless we qualify for a safe harbor. The Code sets forth a safe harbor for REITs that wish to sell property without risking the imposition of the 100% penalty tax, but compliance with the safe harbor may not be practical for any particular sale. If we desire to sell a community pursuant to a transaction that does not fall within the safe harbor, we may be able to avoid the 100% penalty tax if we dispose of the property through a TRS, but there may be circumstances that prevent us from using a TRS in a transaction that does not qualify for the safe harbor or circumstances where it may not be clear whether the TRS or the REIT would be treated as the seller for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Additionally, even if it is possible to effect a property disposition through a TRS, we may decide to forego the use of a TRS in a transaction that does not meet the safe harbor requirements based on our own internal analysis, the opinion of counsel or the opinion of other tax advisers that the disposition is not likely subject to the 100% penalty tax. In cases where a property disposition is not effected (or is not treated as being effected) through a TRS, the Internal Revenue Service could successfully assert that the disposition constitutes a prohibited transaction, in which event all of the net income from the sale of such property will be payable as a tax and none of the proceeds from such sale will be available for investment by us or distribution to our stockholders.If we acquire a property that we anticipate will not fall within the safe harbor from the 100% penalty tax upon disposition, then we may acquire such property through a TRS in order to avoid the possibility that the sale of such property will be a prohibited transaction and subject to the 100% penalty tax. If we already own such a property directly or indirectly through an entity other than a TRS, we may transfer the property to a TRS if we believe that such transfer would permit the TRS to be respected as the seller of the property for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Following the transfer of the property to a TRS, the TRS will operate the property and may sell such property, pay corporate income tax (if any) on the gain from such sale, and distribute the net proceeds from such sale to us, and we may distribute the net proceeds distributed to us by the TRS to our stockholders. This tax obligation would diminish the amount of the proceeds from the sale or operation of such property, or other income earned through the TRS, that would be distributable to our stockholders.Our ownership of interests in TRSs raises certain tax risks.A TRS is a corporation other than a REIT in which a REIT directly or indirectly holds stock, and that has made a joint election with such REIT to be treated as a TRS. A TRS also includes any corporation other than a REIT with respect to which a TRS owns securities possessing more than 35% of the total voting power or value of the outstanding securities of such corporation. Other than some activities relating to lodging and health care facilities, a TRS may generally engage in any business, including the provision of customary or non-customary services to tenants of its parent REIT. A TRS is subject to income tax as a regular C corporation. We currently own interests in TRSs and may acquire securities in additional TRSs in the future.We will be required to pay a 100% tax on any “redetermined rents,” “redetermined deductions,” “excess interest” or “redetermined TRS service income.” In general, redetermined rents are rents from real property that are overstated as a result of services furnished to any of our tenants by a TRS of ours. Redetermined deductions and excess interest generally represent amounts that are deducted by a TRS of ours for amounts paid to us that are in excess of the amounts that would have been deducted based on arm’s length negotiations. Redetermined TRS service income generally represents amounts by which the gross income of a TRS attributable to its services for or on behalf of us (other than to a tenant of ours) would be increased based on arm’s length negotiations. Any TRS itself would be subject to corporate income tax at the federal, state and local levels, (including on the gain realized from the sale of property held by it, as well as on income earned while such property is operated by the TRS). This tax obligation would diminish the amount of the proceeds from the sale or operation of such property, or other income earned through the TRS, that would be distributable to our stockholders. Federal, state and local corporate income tax rates may be increased in the future, and any such increase would reduce the amount of the net proceeds available for distribution by us to our stockholders from the sale of property or other income earned through a TRS after the effective date of any increase in such tax rates.As a REIT, the value of the non-mortgage securities we hold in our TRSs generally may not exceed 25% of the total value of our assets at the end of any calendar quarter through December 31, 2017, and may not exceed 20% of the total value of our assets at the end of any calendar quarter thereafter. If the Internal Revenue Service were to determine that the value of our interests in all of our TRSs exceeded this limit at the end of any calendar quarter, then we would fail to qualify as a REIT. If we determine it to be in our best interests to own a substantial number of our properties through one or more TRSs, then it is 23Table of Contentspossible that the Internal Revenue Service may conclude that the value of our interests in our TRSs exceeds 25% or 20%, as applicable, of the value of our total assets at the end of any calendar quarter and therefore cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT. Additionally, as a REIT, no more than 25% of our gross income with respect to any year may, in general, be from sources other than certain real estate-related assets. Dividends paid to us from a TRS are typically considered to be non-real estate income. Therefore, we may fail to qualify as a REIT if dividends from all of our TRSs, when aggregated with all other non-real estate income with respect to any one year, are more than 25% of our gross income with respect to such year. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan.We generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, subject to certain adjustments and excluding any net capital gain, in order to qualify as a REIT. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed REIT taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under federal tax laws. We intend to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the REIT requirements of the Code.If our Operating Partnership fails to maintain its status as a partnership or disregarded entity for tax purposes, its income may be subject to taxation, which would reduce the cash available to us for distribution to our stockholders.We intend to maintain the status of the Operating Partnership as a partnership (or disregarded entity) for federal income tax purposes. However, if the Internal Revenue Service were to successfully challenge the status of the Operating Partnership as a disregarded entity or as an entity taxable as a partnership, the Operating Partnership would be taxable as a corporation. This would reduce the amount of distributions that the Operating Partnership could make to us. This could also result in our losing REIT status, and becoming subject to a corporate level tax on our income. This would substantially reduce the cash available to us to make distributions and the return on your investment. In addition, if any of the partnerships or limited liability companies through which the Operating Partnership owns its properties, in whole or in part, loses its characterization as a partnership or disregarded entity for federal income tax purposes, it would be subject to taxation as a corporation, thereby reducing distributions to the Operating Partnership. Such a recharacterization of an underlying property owner could also threaten our ability to maintain REIT status.In certain circumstances, we may be subject to federal and state taxes, which would reduce our cash available for distribution to our stockholders.Even if we qualify and maintain our status as a REIT, we may become subject to federal and state taxes. For example, if we have net income from a “prohibited transaction,” such income will be subject to the 100% penalty tax. We may not be able to make sufficient distributions to avoid income and/or excise taxes applicable to REITs. We may also decide to retain income we earn from the sale or other disposition of our assets and pay income tax directly on such income. In that event, our stockholders would be treated as if they earned that income and paid the tax on it directly. We may also be subject to state and local taxes, including potentially the “margin tax” in the State of Texas, on our income or property, either directly or at the level of the operating partnership or at the level of the other companies through which we indirectly own our assets. Any federal or state taxes paid by us will reduce the cash available to us for distribution to our stockholders.Our subsidiary REITs would be subject to similar state and local taxes, and in addition may be or become subject to taxes imposed by certain states upon captive REITs. We may be disqualified from treatment as a REIT if a joint venture entity elects to qualify as a REIT and is later disqualified from treatment as a REIT.As part of our joint ventures, such as our joint ventures with the PGGM Co-Investment Partner and the MW Co-Investment Partner, we have and we may in the future form subsidiary REITs that will acquire and hold assets. In order to qualify as a REIT, each subsidiary REIT must satisfy certain highly technical and complex requirements set forth in the Code and Treasury Regulations for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations, and which may be determined based on various factual matters and circumstances that are not entirely within our control. We may be unable to satisfy these requirements for the subsidiary REITs created in our joint ventures. In the event that a subsidiary REIT is disqualified from treatment as a REIT, we will be disqualified from treatment as a REIT as well absent our ability to comply with certain relief provisions, which may not be available. Legislative or regulatory action could adversely affect the returns to our investors.In recent years, numerous legislative, judicial and administrative changes have been made in the provisions of the federal income tax laws applicable to investments similar to an investment in shares of our common stock. Additional changes to the tax laws are likely to continue to occur, and we cannot assure you that any such changes will not adversely affect the 24Table of Contentstaxation of a stockholder. Any such changes could have an adverse effect on an investment in our shares or on the market value or the resale potential of our assets. You are urged to consult with your own tax adviser with respect to the impact of recent legislation on your investment in our shares and the status of legislative, regulatory or administrative developments and proposals and their potential effect on an investment in our shares. You also should note that our counsel's tax opinion was based upon existing law and Treasury Regulations, applicable as of the date of its opinion, all of which are subject to change, either prospectively or retroactively.There is generally a reduced tax rate on dividends paid by corporations to individuals equal to the capital gain rate, which is currently at a maximum tax rate of 20%. REIT distributions generally do not qualify for this reduced rate. The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause certain non-corporate investors to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stock of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of our stock. The maximum corporate tax rate for dividends received by corporations is 35%. As a REIT, we generally would not be subject to federal or state corporate income taxes on that portion of our ordinary income or capital gain that we distribute currently to our stockholders, and we thus expect to avoid the “double taxation” to which other corporations are typically subject.Although we have determined that it is in the best interests of our stockholders under current law to elect and maintain REIT status, it is possible that future legislation would result in a REIT having fewer tax advantages, and it could become more advantageous for a company that invests in real estate to elect to be taxed for federal income tax purposes as a corporation. As a result, our charter provides our board of directors with the power, under certain circumstances, to revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT election and cause us to be taxed as a corporation, without the vote of our stockholders. Our board of directors has fiduciary duties to us and our stockholders and could only cause such changes in our tax treatment if it determines in good faith that such changes are in the best interest of our stockholders.If we were considered to actually or constructively pay a “preferential dividend” to certain of our stockholders in periods prior to January 1, 2015, our status as a REIT could be adversely affected.In order to qualify as a REIT, we must distribute annually to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain. For periods prior to January 1, 2015, in order for our distributions to be counted as satisfying the annual distribution requirements for REITs, and to provide us with a REIT-level tax deduction, the distributions must not have been “preferential dividends.” A dividend is generally not a preferential dividend if the distribution is pro rata among all outstanding shares of stock within a particular class, and in accordance with the preferences among different classes of stock as set forth in our organizational documents. If the IRS were to take the position that we inadvertently paid a preferential dividend prior to January 1, 2015, we may be deemed either to (a) have distributed less than 100% of our REIT taxable income for such period and be subject to tax on the undistributed portion, or (b) have distributed less than 90% of our REIT taxable income and our status as a REIT could be terminated for the year in which such determination is made if we were unable to cure such failure. We can provide no assurance that we will not be treated as inadvertently paying preferential dividends for periods prior to January 1, 2015. For publicly offered REITs, the rules providing for the disqualification of preferential dividends for purposes of satisfying the annual distribution requirement for REITs was repealed for periods beginning after December 31, 2014. The preferential dividend rules will continue to apply to our subsidiary REITs.Certain provisions contained in our charter and bylaws and certain provisions of Maryland law could delay, defer or prevent a change in control.There are provisions in our charter and bylaws and certain provisions of Maryland law may discourage a third party from making a proposal to acquire us, even if some of our stockholders might consider the proposal to be in their best interests. These provisions include the following:Ownership limit. Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our board of directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Unless exempted by our board of directors, no person may own more than 9.8% of our outstanding common or preferred stock, in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive. This restriction may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us, including an extraordinary transaction (such as a merger, tender offer or sale of all or substantially all of our assets) that might otherwise provide our stockholders with the opportunity to receive a control premium for their shares.Issuance of additional shares of capital stock. Our charter permits our board of directors to issue up to 1,000,000,000 shares of capital stock. Our board of directors, without any action by our stockholders, may: (1) increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares; (2) increase or decrease the number of shares of any class or series we have authority to issue; or (3) classify or reclassify any unissued common stock or preferred stock and establish the preferences, conversion or other 25Table of Contentsrights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to distributions, qualifications or terms or conditions of redemption of any such shares of capital stock. Thus, our board of directors could authorize the issuance of such stock with terms and conditions that could subordinate the rights of the holders of our current common stock or have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us, including an extraordinary transaction (such as a merger, tender offer or sale of all or substantially all of our assets) that might provide a premium price for holders of our common stock.Business combinations under Maryland law. Certain provisions of Maryland law prohibit “business combinations” with any person who beneficially owns ten percent or more of the voting power of outstanding securities, or with an affiliate who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of ten percent or more of the voting power of our outstanding voting securities (an “Interested Stockholder”), or with an affiliate of an Interested Stockholder. These business combinations include a merger, consolidation, share exchange, or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities. These prohibitions last for five years after the most recent date on which the Interested Stockholder became an Interested Stockholder. After the five year period, a business combination with an Interested Stockholder must be approved by two super-majority stockholder votes unless, among other conditions, holders of common stock receive a minimum price for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the Interested Stockholder for its common stock. Maryland law also permits various exemptions from these provisions, including business combinations that are exempted by our board of directors before the time that the Interested Stockholder becomes an Interested Stockholder. Our bylaws contain a provision exempting any “business combination” involving us from this statute. We can offer no assurance that this provision will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future. However, such amendment or elimination may only be done with the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast on the matter by the holders of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock. The business combination statute could have the effect of discouraging others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer.Control share acquisitions under Maryland law. Maryland law also provides that “control shares” of a Maryland corporation acquired in a “control share acquisition” have no voting rights except to the extent approved by the corporation's disinterested stockholders by a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. Shares of stock owned by interested stockholders, that is, by the person who makes or proposes to make a control share acquisition, by officers or by directors who are employees of the corporation, are excluded from the vote on whether to accord voting rights to the control shares. “Control shares” are voting shares of stock that would entitle the acquirer to exercise voting power in electing directors within specified ranges of voting power. Control shares do not include shares the acquiring person is then entitled to vote as a result of having previously obtained stockholder approval. A “control share acquisition” means the acquisition, directly or indirectly, of ownership of, or the power to direct the exercise of voting power with respect to, issued and outstanding control shares, subject to certain exceptions. This provision does not apply (1) to shares acquired in a merger, consolidation or share exchange if the corporation is a party to the transaction or (2) to acquisitions approved or exempted by a corporation's charter or bylaws. Our bylaws contain a provision exempting any and all acquisitions by any person of shares of our stock from this statute. We can offer no assurance that this provision will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future. However, such amendment or elimination may only be done with the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast on the matter by the holders of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock. This statute could have the effect of discouraging offers from third parties to acquire us and increasing the difficulty of successfully completing this type of offer by anyone other than our affiliates or any of their affiliates.Subtitle 8 of Title 3. Subtitle 8 of Title 3 of the Maryland General Corporation Law (“MGCL”) permits a board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in our charter or bylaws, to implement certain takeover defenses, including adopting a classified board or increasing the vote required to remove a director. We have elected in our charter to be subject to the provision of Subtitle 8 that provides that vacancies on our board of directors may be filled only by the remaining directors. We have not elected to be subject to any of the other provisions of Subtitle 8, including the provisions that would permit us to classify our board of directors or increase the vote required to remove a director without stockholder approval. However, our board of directors could elect to provide for any of the foregoing provisions in the future.Stockholders have limited control over changes in our policies and operations.Our board of directors determines our major policies, including our policies regarding investments, financing, growth, debt capitalization, REIT qualification and distributions. Our board of directors may amend or revise these and other policies without a vote of the stockholders. Under our charter and the MGCL, our stockholders currently have a right to vote only on the following matters:•the election of our board of directors or the removal of any member of our board of directors for cause;•any amendment of our charter, except that our board of directors may amend our charter without stockholder approval to:•change our name;26Table of Contents•increase or decrease the aggregate number of our shares;•increase or decrease the number of our shares of any class or series that we have the authority to issue;•classify or reclassify any unissued shares by setting or changing the preferences, conversion or other rights, restrictions, limitations as to distributions, qualifications or terms and conditions of redemption of such shares;•effect reverse stock splits; and•opt into any of the provisions of Subtitle 8 of Title 3 of the Maryland General Corporation Law;•our liquidation and dissolution; and•except as otherwise permitted by law, our being a party to any merger, consolidation, sale or other disposition of substantially all of our assets or similar reorganization.All other matters are subject to the discretion of our board of directors.Your interest in us will be diluted if we issue additional shares, which could reduce the overall value of your investment.Our stockholders do not have preemptive rights to any shares issued by us in the future. Our charter currently authorizes 1,000,000,000 shares of capital stock, of which 875,000,000 shares are designated as common stock and 125,000,000 shares are designated as preferred stock. Subject to any limitations set forth under Maryland law, our board of directors may amend our charter to increase the number of authorized shares of capital stock, or increase or decrease the number of shares of any class or series of stock designated, and may classify or reclassify any unissued shares without the necessity of obtaining stockholder approval. Shares will be issued at the discretion of our board of directors. Investors will likely experience dilution of their equity investment in us in the event that we: (1) sell shares in future public or private offerings; (2) sell securities that are convertible into shares of our common stock; (3) issue shares of common stock upon the conversion of our convertible stock; (4) issue restricted stock units or other awards pursuant to our incentive award plan; or (5) issue shares of our common stock to sellers of properties acquired by us in connection with an exchange of limited partnership interests of the Operating Partnership. In addition, the partnership agreement for the Operating Partnership contains provisions that allow, under certain circumstances, other entities to merge into or cause the exchange or conversion of their interest for interests of the Operating Partnership. Because the limited partnership interests of the Operating Partnership may be exchanged for shares of our common stock, any merger, exchange or conversion between the Operating Partnership and another entity ultimately could result in the issuance of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, thereby diluting the percentage ownership interest of other stockholders. Because of these and other reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section, you should not expect to be able to own a significant percentage of our shares.Your investment may be diluted upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock.In connection with our transition to a self-managed company, we issued to affiliates of Behringer Harvard Multifamily Advisors I, LLC (“Behringer”), our former external advisor, 10,000 shares of a new Series A non-participating, voting, cumulative, 7.0% convertible preferred stock, par value $0.0001 per share (the “Series A Preferred Stock”). The Series A Preferred Stock may be converted into shares of our common stock, in connection with certain triggering events including (a) a listing of our common stock on a national exchange (the “Listing”), (b) upon a “change of control,” as defined in the charter (a “Change of Control”) or (c) upon Behringer’s election to cause the conversion to occur at any time between the actual date of the Listing and December 31, 2016. The likelihood and timing of a conversion will depend on a number factors, including whether there is sufficient economic value under the conversion formula to merit conversion and whether Berhinger elects to cause a conversion prior to December 31, 2016. You may experience dilution upon the conversion the Series A Preferred Stock. The market price and trading volume of our shares of common stock may be volatile.The market price of our common stock has recently been, and may continue to be, volatile. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the market price or trading volume of our common stock include:•actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results or distributions;•changes in our funds from operations or earnings estimates;•publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry;•increases in market interest rates that lead our stockholders to demand a higher yield;•changes in market valuations of similar companies;•adverse market reaction to any additional debt we incur or acquisitions we make in the future;•additions or departures of key management personnel;•actions by institutional stockholders;27Table of Contents•speculation in the press or investment community;•the general reputation of REITs and the attractiveness of our equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate-based companies;•investor confidence in the stock and bond markets, generally;•the realization of any of the other risk factors presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K; and•general market and economic conditions.A large number of shares of our common stock available for future sale could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.Sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our board of directors may also authorize the issuance of additional authorized but unissued shares of common stock or other authorized but unissued securities at any time, including pursuant to our incentive award plan. As of December 31, 2015, 166,611,549 shares of our common stock were issued and outstanding, as well as 10,000 shares of our Series A Preferred Stock which may be convertible into shares of our common stock. In addition, as of December 31, 2015, we had reserved an additional 19,423,636 shares of common stock for future issuance under our incentive award plan. We have also filed a registration statement with the SEC allowing us to offer, from time to time, an indefinite amount of equity securities (including common or preferred stock) on an as-needed basis and subject to our ability to affect offerings on satisfactory terms based on prevailing market conditions. Our ability to execute our business strategy depends on our access to an appropriate blend of debt and equity financing, including issuances of common and preferred equity. No prediction can be made about the effect that future distributions or sales of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone. 28Table of Contents