ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company has a lack of operating history. Even though we have been engaged in the oil and gas business for several years, we have not been able to successfully develop our oil and gas leasehold interests. As a non-operator, we are to some degree dependent on the operator’s willingness to initiate a drilling program that we believe will meet our objectives. We are in the process of applying to the Rail Road Commission in the State of Texas to become an operator. Until the application is approved, we will be dependent on others to operate any leasehold interest that we currently hold or that we may acquire in the future. Management’s lack of knowledge regarding new technology in oil and gas operations. The Company and its current management have not been engaged in oil and gas field operations for several years. Current technology has changed many of the aspects of drilling oil and gas wells and their operations. As an operator, the importance of being knowledgeable about these new aspects is increased because the operator is responsible for initiating and maintaining all aspects of seeking out appropriate drilling locations, the drilling of the well and its subsequent operations. Thus, the Company will seek to employ or otherwise retain individuals competent in these aspects of our business. There is no assurance that we will be able to find individuals who we believe will serve to enhance our business. The Company lacks profitable operations. The Well drilled on the Prospect only yielded several months of production. Otherwise we have not been engaged in actual field operations. The cash required to operate the Company and to seek out additional oil and gas properties has been supplied through the sale of the Company’s common stock. Our common stock is not actively traded and consequently, our ability to continue to have available cash to both fund our operations and to seek additional oil and gas properties may be curtailed if we do not have profitable oil and gas operations in the future. 7 The Company’s financial position could change. As of December 31, 2011 we had total liabilities of $5,645 and $4,423,913 in cash. We have subsequently increased our cash position through the sale of our common stock and currently have a cash position of approximately $8.3 million and a receivable from Stanford of approximately $1.1 million. The acquisition of Stanford, pursuant to the LOI previously discussed, will allow us to commence drilling oil and gas wells immediately. Based on discussions with management of Stanford and assuming the Stanford transaction closes, the cost of drilling a well on the properties currently held by Stanford, which properties generally have a working interest of 100% and a net revenue interest of 75%, would be approximately $600,000. Thus, our cash position would be depleted substantially with each well drilled and no assurance can be given that we would be successful in drilling a commercially productive well. Thus, the possibility exists that our cash position would be significantly reduced without a corresponding increase in cash flow from a producing well. The Company’s business or proposed business is subject to delay. The definitive agreement that the Company and Stanford will enter into pursuant to the LOI will contain numerous provisions that may require a substantial amount of time to obtain. The transaction described in the LOI is intended to be effective as of January 1, 2012; however, until the transaction closes, we will not benefit from any oil and gas production generated by Stanford. Any delay in the closing of the transaction contemplated by the LOI will negatively impact our cash flow. There is a lack of a market for the Company’s common equity securities. We have been dependent on the sale of our common stock to fund our operations; nevertheless, there is a lack of marketability for our common equity securities. Our ability to continue to obtain capital through the sale of our common stock is questionable if purchasers of our common stock are not able to sell the stock they have purchased into the marketplace. The ability of management to find securities firms or broker/dealers into making a market in our common stock cannot be assured. Consequently, our future ability to obtain capital through the non-public offering of our common stock is questionable. The Company’s oil and gas business operates in highly competitive environments, which affect, among other things, its results of operations and its ability to acquire additional oil and gas producing properties. The Company’s oil and gas production is dependent on acquiring oil and gas properties that have substantial reserves. We believe that the acquisition of Stanford as described in the LOI will go a long way in accomplishing this goal. Nevertheless, until this transaction closes, of which there is no assurance that it will, the Company will be dependent on current management to seek out and acquire producing oil and gas properties, an interest in such properties and/or leasehold interests that hold the potential for drilling wells that result in production. The Company has many competitors (including national oil companies), some of which are larger and better funded, and that may be willing to accept greater risks or have special competencies. Competition for reserves may make it more difficult to find attractive investment opportunities or require delay of expected reserve replacement efforts. Cash conservation considerations during periods of low product prices may delay production growth and reserve replacement efforts. These are challenges that the Company faces if the transaction contemplated by the LOI does not close and the Company is required to seek profitable operations from other sources. Governmental actions may affect the Company’s ability to obtain profitable operations. Inasmuch as governmental agencies and many political interests are involved in the oil and gas business, we may face additional risks as we seek to acquire oil and gas leasehold interests, such as: · new or amended laws and regulations, including those related to taxes, royalty rates, permitted production rates, import, export and use of equipment and environmental protection, all of which may increase costs or reduce the demand for the Company's products; · reduction of production limits of any kind; · refusal or delay in the extension or grant of, exploration, production or development contracts; and · we intend to acquire operation oil and gas properties that are considered a business acquisition for SEC accounting purposes and we may not be able to obtain the necessary historical information in order to consummate the transaction. 8 The Company faces risks associated with its mergers, acquisitions and divestitures. The Company’s merger and acquisition activities as described in the LOI carry risks that may not be fully realized at the present time. Even though no such risks are anticipated, there is no assurance that the closing of the transaction contemplated with Stanford will be accomplished in a timely manner or ever. Significant accounting requirements including disclosures of past activities are entailed in the oil and gas accounting requirements imposed on Stanford prior to the closing of the transaction. These pose a substantial risk to the Company when intending to close its transaction with Stanford. a non-public entity, because private entities in general are not required to maintain this detailed information. Consequently a significant burden is placed on Stanford to obtain that information. The Company’s oil and gas reserves are based on professional judgments and may be subject to revision. The Company currently has no oil and gas reserves. If and when the Stanford acquisition is completed, the calculations of oil and gas reserves will become an obligation of the Company. Therefore, in the future we will need to depend on estimates concerning reservoir characteristics and recoverability, as well as oil and gas prices, capital costs and operating costs. If the Company were required to make unanticipated significant negative reserve revisions, its results of operations and stock price could be adversely affected. Concerns about climate change or energy dependence may affect the Company’s operations or results of operations. The Company’s future operations will be required to assess the effects of ongoing scientific effort to assess and quantify the effects of climate change and the potential human influences on climate, and related efforts by certain U.S. Jurisdictions to propose or adopt legislation, regulations or policies seeking to control or reduce emissions of “greenhouse gases” or consumption of fossil fuels. As a result of these efforts, the Company may face risks of delays in new or expanded development projects and increases in taxes. These and other factors may have an impact on the Company’s as it faces risks of increases in the costs to produce, reductions in the demand for, and restrictions on the use of, its products. The Company’s businesses may experience catastrophic events. The occurrence of natural disasters, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods, and events such as well blowouts, oilfield fires, industrial accidents and other events that cause operations to cease, may affect the Company’s businesses. The properties that the Company will acquire at the time of closing of the Stanford acquisition are not located in areas that are generally subject to such catastrophic events. Nevertheless, the Company intends to expand into other areas and obtain other properties where catastrophic events are more likely to occur. Third-party insurance may not provide adequate coverage or the Company may be self-insured with respect to the related losses. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We are not an accelerated filer, a large accelerated filer or a well-known seasoned issuer and therefore have elected not to provide the information required by this item. 