ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSRisks Related to Our BusinessOil, natural gas and NGLs prices are volatile due to factors beyond our control and have decreased dramatically during 2015 and the beginning of 2016. Sustained lower prices or any further decline in prices of oil, natural gas and NGLs, could have a material adverse impact on us. Our financial condition, profitability and future growth and the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties depend substantially on prevailing oil, natural gas and NGLs prices. Prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow and raise additional capital. Historically, the markets for oil, natural gas and NGLs have been volatile, and they are likely to continue to be volatile in the future, especially given current geopolitical and economic conditions. During 2014, 2015 and the beginning of 2016, for example, oil, natural gas and NGLs prices decreased dramatically. The crude oil spot price per barrel during the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2015 ranged from a high of $107.95 to a low of $34.55 and the NYMEX natural gas spot price per MMBtu during the same period ranged from a high of $6.15 to a low of $1.76. NGLs prices also suffered a similar decline. As of February 29, 2016, the crude oil price per barrel was $32.74 and the NYMEX natural gas spot price per MMBtu was $1.62. This price decline impacted our operating results for the year ended December 31, 2015 and contributed to a reduction in our anticipated future capital expenditures. In addition, this decline resulted in a reduction in our estimated proved reserves and, as a result of this reduction, we recorded substantial impairments to our oil, natural gas and NGLs properties in the year ended December 31, 2015.The prices for oil, natural gas and NGLs are volatile due to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to:29•the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas; •the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) and other producing countries to agree upon production levels which has an impact on oil prices; •social unrest and political instability, particularly in major oil and natural gas producing regions outside the United States, such as the Middle East, and armed conflict or terrorist attacks, whether or not in oil or natural gas producing regions; •the level and growth of consumer product demand; •labor unrest in oil and natural gas producing regions; •weather conditions, including hurricanes and other natural occurrences that affect the supply and/or demand of oil and natural gas; •the price and availability of alternative fuels and renewable energy sources; •the impact of the U.S. dollar exchange rates on commodity prices;•the price of foreign imports; •technological advances affecting energy consumption;•worldwide economic conditions; and •the availability of liquid natural gas imports. These external factors and the volatile nature of the energy markets make it difficult to estimate future prices of oil, natural gas and NGLs.Sustained lower prices or any further decline in prices of oil, natural gas and NGLs prices would not only reduce our revenue, but could reduce the amount of oil, natural gas and NGLs that we can produce economically, cause us to delay or postpone our planned capital expenditures and result in further impairments to our oil and gas properties, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and reserves. If the oil and gas industry continues to experience low prices or experiences significant further price declines, we may, among other things, be unable to maintain or increase our borrowing capacity, repay current or future indebtedness or obtain additional capital on attractive terms or resume cash distributions to our unitholders, all of which can affect the value of our units.Continued low oil, natural gas and NGLs prices and other factors have resulted, and in the future may result, in ceiling test or goodwill write-downs and other impairments of our asset carrying values.Accounting rules require that we periodically review the carrying value of our properties for possible impairment. Based on specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews, and the continuing evaluation of development drilling plans, production data, economics and other factors, we may be required to write down the carrying value of our properties. We use the full cost method of accounting to report our oil and natural gas properties. Under this method, we capitalize the cost to acquire, explore for, and develop oil and natural gas properties. Under full cost accounting rules, the net capitalized costs of proved oil and natural gas properties may not exceed a “ceiling limit,” which is based upon the present value of estimated future net cash flows from proved reserves, discounted at 10%. If net capitalized costs of proved oil and natural gas properties exceed the ceiling limit, we must charge the amount of the excess to earnings. This is called a “ceiling test write-down.” Under the accounting rules, we are required to perform a ceiling test each quarter. A ceiling test write-down would not impact cash flow from operating activities, but it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period incurred and would reduce our members’ equity.In accordance with the guidance contained within ASC Topic 805, “Business Combinations,” (“ASC Topic 805”), upon the 30acquisition of oil and natural gas properties, the Company records an asset based on the measurement of the fair value of the properties acquired determined using forward oil and natural gas price curves at the acquisitions dates, which can have several price increases over the entire reserve life. As discussed above, capitalized oil and natural gas property costs are limited to a ceiling based on the present value of future net revenues, computed using a flat price for the entire reserve life equal to the historical 12-month average price, discounted at 10%, plus the lower of cost or fair market value of unproved properties. If the ceiling is less than the total capitalized costs, we are required to write down capitalized costs to the ceiling. As a result, there is a risk that we will be required to record an impairment of our oil and natural gas properties if certain attributes exist, such as declining oil and natural gas prices. We recorded a non-cash ceiling test impairment of oil and natural gas properties for the year ended December 31, 2015 of $1.8 billion as a result of a decline in realized oil and natural gas prices at the respective measurement dates of March 31, 2015, June 30, 2015, September 30, 2015 and December 31, 2015. Such impairment was recognized during each quarter of 2015 and was calculated based on 12-month average prices for oil and natural gas as follows: Impairment Amount (in thousands)Natural Gas ($ per MMBtu)Oil($ per Bbl)First quarter 2015$132,610$3.91$82.62Second quarter 2015$733,365$3.44$71.51Third quarter 2015$491,487$3.11$59.23Fourth quarter 2015$484,855$2.62$50.20Total1,842,317 The most significant factors causing us to record an impairment of oil and natural gas properties in the year ended December 31, 2015 were declining oil and natural gas prices and the closing of the LRE Merger and Eagle Rock Merger. The fair value of the properties acquired (determined using forward oil and natural gas price curves on the acquisition dates) was higher than the discounted estimated future cash flows computed using the 12-month average prices on the impairment test measurement dates. However, the impairment calculations did not consider the positive impact of our commodity derivative positions because generally accepted accounting principles only allow the inclusion of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges.We expect to record an additional impairment of our oil and natural gas properties during 2016 as a result of declining oil and natural gas prices. Based on the 11-month average oil, natural gas and NGLs prices through February 1, 2016 and if such prices do not change during March 2016, we estimate that, on a pro forma basis, we will record a ceiling test write down on our existing assets of approximately $221.3 million at March 31, 2016 and an additional write down of $458.9 million for the remainder of the year ending December 31, 2016. If oil, natural gas and NGLs prices were to decline an additional 10% from their 11-month average through February 1, 2016, we estimate that, on a pro forma basis, we would record additional ceiling test write downs on our existing assets of approximately $504.0 million at March 31, 2016 and an additional write down of $388.2 million for the remainder of the year ending December 31, 2016. However, whether the amount of any such impairments will be similar in amount to such estimates, is contingent upon many factors such as the price of oil, natural gas and NGLs for the remainder of 2016, increases or decreases in our reserve base, changes in estimated costs and expenses, and oil and natural gas property acquisitions, which could increase, decrease or eliminate the need for such impairments. Additionally, we have recorded goodwill which represents the excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair value of the net assets acquired in the Encore Energy Partners LP acquisition completed in December 2010 and the LRE Merger. Significant oil, natural gas and NGLs price declines could cause us to record an impairment of goodwill, which would be reflected as a non-cash charge against current earnings. We recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment loss of $71.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. Based on further evaluation of qualitative factors, we determined that the goodwill impairment is primarily a result of the decline in the prices of oil and natural gas as well as deteriorating market conditions and the decline in the market price of our common units.We may not have sufficient cash from operations to resume the payment of monthly cash distributions on our common and Class B units, and we may not have sufficient funds to resume the payment of monthly cash distributions on our preferred units. We have suspended cash distributions to the holders of our common and Class B units and preferred units in order to conserve cash, repay our debt under our Reserve-Based Credit Facility and improve our liquidity. 31We may not have sufficient available cash each month to resume distributions to our common and Class B unitholders. Under the terms of our limited liability company agreement, in the event that we elect to resume such monthly cash distributions to our common and Class B unitholders, the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution will be reduced by our operating expenses and the amount of any cash reserve amounts that our board of directors establishes to provide for future operations, future capital expenditures, including acquisitions of additional oil and natural gas properties, future debt service requirements and future cash distributions to our common and Class B unitholders. The amount of cash we can distribute on our common and Class B units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from month to month based on, among other things: •the amount of oil, natural gas and NGLs we produce;•the prices at which we are able to sell our oil, natural gas and NGLs production (which decreased significantly in 2015 and have continued to decrease in 2016); •the level of our operating costs;•the level of our price risk management activities; and•voluntary payments on our debt agreements. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to: •the level of our capital expenditures;•our ability to make working capital borrowings under our financing arrangements to pay distributions;•the cost of acquisitions, if any;•our debt service requirements, including the level of our interest expense which depends on the amount of our indebtedness and the interest payable thereon;•required payments on our debt agreements;•the success of our price risk management activities;•fluctuations in our working capital needs;•timing and collectability of receivables;•prevailing economic conditions; and•the amount of cash reserves established by our board of directors for the proper conduct of our business.As a result of these factors, we may not have sufficient available cash to resume our monthly cash distributions to our common and Class B unitholders. Even if we were able to resume a monthly cash distribution to these unitholders, the amount of available cash that we could distribute in any month to our unitholders may fluctuate significantly from month to month. In addition, we may not have sufficient funds each month to resume distributions to our preferred unitholders. Furthermore, while the monthly preferred unit distributions on our preferred units are in arrears, we are restricted from making cash distributions on our common units, which in turn may cause the price of our common units to decline. If at any time the preferred unit distributions on any class of our preferred units become 18 months in arrears, whether consecutive or not, the holders of our preferred units will become entitled to elect two members of our board of directors, and the size of our board of directors will be increased to accommodate such change, if needed. The holders of our preferred units will be entitled to continue electing two members of our board of directors until we pay in full, or declare and set aside funds for the payment of, all unpaid distributions on the preferred units. 32Growing the Company will require significant amounts of debt and equity financing, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all.We plan to fund our growth through acquisitions with proceeds from sales of our debt and equity securities and borrowings from the credit facility (the “Reserve-Based Credit Facility”) under our Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”); however, we cannot be certain that we will be able to issue our debt and equity securities on terms or in the proportions that we expect, or at all, and we may be unable to refinance our Reserve-Based Credit Facility upon maturity. In addition, we have limited borrowing capacity under our Reserve-Based Credit Facility; as of December 31, 2015, there was approximately $1.69 billion of outstanding borrowings and $107.5 million of borrowing capacity under the Reserve-Based Credit Facility, after reflecting a $4.5 million reduction in availability for letters of credit . A significant increase in our indebtedness, or an increase in our indebtedness that is proportionately greater than our issuances of equity, as well as disruptions in credit market and debt and equity capital market conditions could negatively impact our ability to remain in compliance with the financial covenants under our Reserve-Based Credit Facility which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we are unable to finance our growth as expected, we could be required to seek alternative financing, the terms of which may not be attractive to us, or not pursue growth opportunities.The terms of our indebtedness include restrictions and financial covenants that could limit growth and our ability to finance our operations, fund our capital needs, respond to changing conditions and engage in other business activities that may be in our best interests.The indentures governing our Senior Notes due 2020 and Senior Secured Second Lien Notes and our Reserve-Based Credit Facility impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability and that of our restricted subsidiaries to, among other things:•resume distributions in respect of our common units and preferred units or make other restricted payments;•incur additional secured and unsecured indebtedness;•create liens;•engage in mergers or consolidations or sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets;•make certain dispositions and transfers of assets;•engage in transactions with affiliates;•make investments; and•refinance certain indebtedness.In addition, our Reserve-Based Credit Facility contains a number of significant covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to:•dispose of assets;•incur or guarantee additional indebtedness and issue certain types of preferred equity;•resume distributions in respect of our common units;•create liens on our assets;•enter into sale or leaseback transactions;•enter into specified investments or acquisitions;•repurchase, redeem or retire our capital stock or subordinated debt;33•merge or consolidate, or transfer all or substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries;•engage in specified transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates; or•pursue other corporate activities.We may be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations imposed on us by the restrictive covenants under the indentures governing our Senior Notes due 2020 and Senior Secured Second Lien Notes and our Reserve-Based Credit Facility. Our Reserve-Based Credit Facility requires us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests. Additionally, the indentures governing our Senior Notes due 2020 and Senior Secured Second Lien Notes contain covenants limiting our ability to incur additional indebtedness unless we meet one of two alternative tests. The first test applies to all indebtedness and requires that, after giving effect to the incurrence of additional debt, our fixed charge coverage ratio (which is the ratio of our adjusted consolidated EBITDA (as defined in our indentures) to our adjusted consolidated interest expense over the trailing four fiscal quarters) will be at least 2.25 to 1.0. If our fixed coverage ratio falls below 2.25 to 1.0, the second test applies to borrowings under credit agreements and limits these borrowings to: (i) under our Senior Notes due 2020, the greater of (a) a fixed sum of $1.0 billion and (b) $475.0 million plus 35% of our adjusted consolidated net tangible assets, which is determined primarily by the value of discounted future net revenues from proved oil and natural gas reserves, and (ii) under our Senior Secured Second Lien Notes, the greater of (a) a fixed sum of $1.8 billion and (b) $950.0 million plus 35% of our modified adjusted consolidated net tangible assets. Lower oil and natural gas prices in the future could reduce our adjusted consolidated EBITDA, as well as our adjusted consolidated net tangible assets, and thus could reduce our ability to incur additional indebtedness. Our ability to comply with these ratios and financial condition tests may be affected by events beyond our control and, as a result, we may be unable to meet these ratios and financial condition tests. These financial ratio restrictions and financial condition tests could limit our ability to obtain future financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a continued downturn in our business or a downturn in the economy in general or otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. Further declines in oil, and natural gas and NGLs prices, or a prolonged period of oil, natural gas and NGLs prices at existing levels, could eventually result in our failing to meet one or more of the financial covenants under our Reserve-Based Credit Facility, which could require us to finance or amend such obligations resulting in the payment of consent fees or higher interest rates, or require us to raise additional capital at an inopportune time or on terms not favorable to us.A breach of any of these covenants or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios or financial condition tests could result in a default under the indentures referenced above or our Reserve-Based Credit Facility. A default under these agreements, if not cured or waived, could result in acceleration of all indebtedness outstanding thereunder. The accelerated debt would become immediately due and payable. If that should occur, we may be unable to pay all such debt or to borrow sufficient funds to refinance it, and, even if new financing were then available, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. Further, to the extent that we enter into additional transactions which result in the discharge of debt at a discount, the holders of our common units may be subject to income tax to the extent the cancellation of indebtedness income exceeds cumulative passive losses generated by Vanguard in prior years, if applicable. Any of the foregoing consequences could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service obligations. As of March 3, 2016, we had an aggregate amount of approximately $2.3 billion outstanding under our Reserve-Based Credit Facility, Senior Notes due 2020, Senior Secured Second Lien Notes and Lease Financing Obligations with additional borrowing capacity of approximately $96.6 million under our Reserve-Based Credit Facility. As a result of our indebtedness, we will use a portion of our cash flow to pay interest and principal when due, which will reduce the cash available to finance our operations and other business activities and could limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and the industry in which we operate.Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to conditions in the oil and gas industry, general economic and financial conditions, the impact of legislative and regulatory actions on how we conduct our business and other factors, all of which are beyond our control.We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our outstanding indebtedness, or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other capital needs. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our outstanding indebtedness, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as:34•refinancing or restructuring our debt;•selling assets;•reducing or delaying acquisitions or our drilling program; or•seeking to raise additional capital.However, we cannot assure you that we would be able to refinance or restructure our debt or implement alternative financing plans, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or that implementing any such alternative financing plans would allow us to meet our debt obligations. In addition, any failure to make scheduled payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms.Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations or to obtain alternative financings, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.The borrowing base under our Reserve-Based Credit Facility is the amount of money available for borrowing, as determined semi-annually by our lenders in their sole discretion. The lenders will re-determine the borrowing base based on an engineering report with respect to our oil, natural gas and NGLs reserves, which will take into account the prevailing oil, natural gas and NGLs prices at such time. In the future, we may not be able to access adequate funding under our Reserve-Based Credit Facility as a result of (i) a decrease in our borrowing base due to the outcome of a subsequent borrowing base redetermination or (ii) an unwillingness or inability on the part of our lending counterparties to meet their funding obligations. In June 2015, our lenders reduced the borrowing base under our Reserve-Based Credit Facility from $2.0 billion to $1.6 billion, although the borrowing base was automatically increased to $1.8 billion upon the closing of the LRE Merger. Our next borrowing base redetermination is scheduled for April 2016. Based on projected market conditions, continued declines in oil and natural gas prices and as existing hedges roll off, we expect a reduction in our borrowing base at the next scheduled redetermination. The precise amount of the reduction is not known at this time but we do expect that the amount will be significant.Continued declines in commodity prices could result in future redeterminations that further reduce our borrowing base and, in such case, we could be required to repay any indebtedness in excess of the borrowing base. The lenders can unilaterally adjust the borrowing base and the borrowings permitted to be outstanding under our Reserve-Based Credit Facility. Any increase in the borrowing base requires the consent of all the lenders. Outstanding borrowings in excess of the borrowing base must be repaid within 30 days, or in six monthly installments beginning within 30 days, or we must pledge other oil and natural gas properties as additional collateral. We do not currently have any substantial unpledged properties, and we may not have the financial resources in the future to make any mandatory principal prepayments required under our Reserve-Based Credit Facility.Our future distributions and proved reserves will be dependent upon the success of our efforts to prudently acquire, manage and develop oil and natural gas properties that conform to the acquisition profile described in this Annual Report. In addition to ownership of the properties currently owned by us, unless we acquire properties in the future containing additional proved reserves or successfully develop proved reserves on our existing properties, our proved reserves will decline as the reserves attributable to the underlying properties are produced. In addition, if the costs to develop or operate our properties increase, the estimated proved reserves associated with properties will be reduced below the level that would otherwise be estimated. We will manage and develop our properties, and the ultimate value to us of such properties which we acquire will be dependent upon the price we pay and our ability to prudently acquire, manage and develop such properties. As a result, our future cash distributions will be dependent to a substantial extent upon our ability to prudently acquire, manage and develop such properties. Suitable acquisition candidates may not be available on terms and conditions that we find acceptable, we may not be able to obtain financing for certain acquisitions, or we may be outbid by competitors. If we are unable to acquire properties containing additional proved reserves, our total level of additional proved reserves will decline as a result of our production, and we will be limited in our ability to pay cash distributions to our unitholders. Even if future acquisitions are completed, they may pose substantial risks to our businesses, financial conditions and results of operations. 35A widening of commodity differentials and our inability to enter into hedge contracts for a sufficient amount of our production at favorable pricing could materially adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows from operations.Our crude oil, natural gas and NGLs are priced in the local markets where the production occurs based on local or regional supply and demand factors. The prices that we receive for our crude oil, natural gas and NGLs production are generally lower than the relevant benchmark prices, such as NYMEX, that are used for calculating commodity derivative positions. The difference between the benchmark price and the price we receive is called a differential. We may not be able to accurately predict crude oil, natural gas and NGLs differentials.Price differentials may widen in the future. Numerous factors may influence local pricing, such as refinery capacity, pipeline capacity and specifications, changes in the mid-stream or downstream sectors of the industry, trade restrictions and governmental regulations. We may be adversely impacted by a widening differential on the products we sell. Our oil and natural gas hedges are based on WTI or natural gas index prices and the NGLs hedges are based on the Oil Price Information Service postings as well as market-negotiated ethane spot prices, so we may be subject to basis risk if the differential on the products we sell widens from those benchmarks and we do not have a contract tied to those benchmarks. We have entered into fixed-price swaps derivative contracts to cover a portion of our NGLs production to reduce exposure to fluctuations in NGLs prices. Currently, we are unable to hedge widening oil differentials in certain operating areas. Increases in the differential between the benchmark price for oil and natural gas and the wellhead price we receive and our inability to enter into hedge contracts at favorable pricing and for a sufficient amount of our production could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows from operations in the future.Our limited ability to hedge our NGLs production could adversely impact our net cash provided by operating activities and results of operations.A liquid, readily available and commercially viable market for hedging NGLs has not developed in the same way that exists for crude oil and natural gas. The current direct NGLs hedging market is constrained in terms of price, volume, duration and number of counterparties, which limits our ability to hedge our NGLs production effectively or at all. As a result, our net cash provided by operating activities and results of operations could be adversely impacted by fluctuations in the market prices for NGLs products.Unless we replace our reserves, our existing reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our cash flow from operations and our ability to resume or sustain distributions to our unitholders. Producing oil and natural gas wells extract hydrocarbons from underground structures referred to as reservoirs. Reservoirs contain a finite volume of hydrocarbon reserves referred to as reserves in place. Based on prevailing prices and production technologies, only a fraction of reserves in place can be recovered from a given reservoir. The volume of the reserves in place that is recoverable from a particular reservoir is reduced as production from that well continues. The reduction is referred to as depletion. Ultimately, the economically recoverable reserves from a particular well will deplete entirely, and the producing well will cease to produce and will be plugged and abandoned. In that event, we must replace our reserves. Unless we are able over the long-term to replace the reserves that are depleted through production, investors in our units should consider the cash distributions that are paid on the units not merely as a “distribution yield” on the units, but as a combination of both a return of capital and a return on investment. Investors in our units will have to obtain the return of capital invested out of cash flow derived from their investments in units during the period when reserves can be economically recovered. Accordingly, we give no assurances that the distributions our unitholders receive over the life of their investment will meet or exceed their initial capital investment.Adverse developments in our operating areas would reduce our ability to resume distributions to our unitholders.Our properties are located in Wyoming, Colorado, Texas, New Mexico, Louisiana, Mississippi, Montana, Arkansas, Oklahoma, North Dakota and Alabama. An adverse development in the oil and natural gas business of any of these geographic areas, such as in our ability to attract and retain field personnel or in our ability to comply with local regulations, could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders.Our acquisition activities will subject us to certain risks.A principal component of our business strategy is to grow our asset base and production through the acquisition of oil and natural gas properties characterized by long-lived, stable production. We have therefore historically expanded our operations through acquisitions. 36Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, but not limited to, the following, which could reduce the amount of cash available from the affected properties:•the validity of our assumptions about reserves, future production, revenues and costs, including synergies;•unforeseen difficulties encountered in operating in new geographic areas;•some of the acquired properties may not produce revenues, reserves, earnings or cash flow at anticipated levels;•we may assume liabilities, including environmental liabilities, that were not disclosed or that exceed their estimates, losses or costs for which we are not indemnified or for which our indemnity is inadequate;•we may be unable to integrate acquired properties successfully and may not realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits in a timely manner, which could result in substantial costs and delays or other operational, technical or financial problems;•acquisitions could decrease our liquidity by using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowings to finance acquisitions; •acquisitions could disrupt our ongoing business, distract management, divert resources and make it difficult to maintain our current business standards, controls and procedures; •an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate our growing business and assets;•we may incur a significant increase in our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt related to future acquisitions;•an increase in our costs or a decrease in our revenues associated with any potential royalty owner or landowner claims or disputes; •customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses; and•acquisitions could cause other significant changes, such as impairment of oil and natural gas properties, goodwill or other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charge. Our decision to acquire a property will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained from production reports and engineering studies, geophysical and geological analyses and seismic and other information, the results of which are often inconclusive and subject to various interpretations. Also, our reviews of acquired properties are inherently incomplete because it generally is not feasible to perform an in-depth review of the individual properties involved in each acquisition. Even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and potential. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as ground water contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. For example, the realized success of the LRE Merger and Eagle Rock Merger will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and synergies from combining our business with the business of LRE and Eagle Rock. To realize these anticipated benefits, the businesses must be successfully combined. If the combined entity is not able to achieve these objectives, or is not able to achieve these objectives on a timely basis, the anticipated benefits of the LRE Merger and Eagle Rock Merger may not be realized fully or at all. In addition, the actual integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses, which could reduce the anticipated benefits of the mergers. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. Borrowings under our Reserve-Based Credit Facility bear interest at variable rates and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase and we are unable to effectively hedge our interest rate risk, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even if the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash available for servicing our indebtedness would decrease. If interest rates on our facility increased by 10%, interest expense for the year 37ended December 31, 2015 would have increased by approximately $0.4 million. See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk-Interest Rate Risks” included under Part II of this annual report for further information regarding interest rate sensitivity.We have limited control over the activities on properties we do not operate.Other companies operate some of the properties in which we have an interest. As of December 31, 2015, we operated approximately 56% of our production and non-operated wells represented approximately 44% of our owned net wells. We have limited ability to influence or control the operation or future development of these non-operated properties, including timing of drilling and other scheduled operations activities, compliance with environmental, safety and other regulations, or the amount of capital expenditures that we are required to fund with respect to them. In the past, we have changed our development plans for certain proved undeveloped reserves and expect future development plans may also change as the operators of our outside operated properties adjust their capital plans based on prevailing market conditions. The failure of an operator of our wells to adequately perform operations, an operator’s breach of the applicable agreements or an operator’s failure to act in ways that are in our best interest could reduce our production and revenues. Our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects and our limited ability to influence or control the operation and future development of these properties could materially adversely affect the realization of our targeted returns on capital in drilling or acquisition activities and lead to unexpected future costs.The amount of cash that we have available for distribution to our unitholders depends primarily upon our cash flow and not our profitability. The amount of cash that we have available for distribution depends primarily on our cash flow, including cash from reserves and working capital or other borrowings, and not solely on our GAAP net income, which is affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may be unable to resume the payment of distributions even when we record net income, and we may be able to resume the payment of distributions during periods when we incur net losses. Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. No one can measure underground accumulations of oil or natural gas in an exact way. Oil and natural gas reservoir engineering requires subjective estimates of underground accumulations of oil and/or natural gas and assumptions concerning future oil and natural gas prices, production levels, and operating and development costs. As a result, estimated quantities of proved reserves and projections of future production rates and the timing of development expenditures may prove to be inaccurate. We prepare our own estimates of proved reserves and engage D&M, an independent petroleum engineering firm, to audit a substantial portion of our reserves. Some of our reserve estimates are made without the benefit of a lengthy production history, which are less reliable than estimates based on a lengthy production history. Also, the calculation of estimated reserves requires certain assumptions regarding future oil and natural gas prices, production levels, and operating and development costs, any of which assumptions may prove incorrect. Any significant variance from these assumptions by actual figures could greatly affect our estimates of reserves, the economically recoverable quantities of oil, natural gas and NGLs attributable to any particular group of properties, the classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery, and estimates of the future net cash flows. For example, to illustrate the impact of a sustained low commodity price environment, we present the following two examples: (1) if we reduced the 12-month average price for natural gas by $1.00 per MMBtu and if we reduced the 12-month average price for oil by $6.00 per barrel, while production costs remained constant (which has historically not been the case in periods of declining commodity prices and declining production), our total proved reserves as of December 31, 2015 would decrease from 2,288.9 Bcfe to 2,061.3 Bcfe, based on this price sensitivity generated from an internal evaluation of our proved reserves; and (2) if natural gas prices were $2.57 per MMBtu (or a $0.05 price decrease from the 12-month average price of $2.62) and oil prices were $44.28 per barrel (or a $5.92 price decline from the 12-month average price of $50.20), while production costs remained constant (which has historically not been the case in periods of declining commodity prices and declining production), our total proved reserves as of December 31, 2015 would increase from 2,288.9 Bcfe to 2,324.1 Bcfe. The preceding assumed prices in example (2) were derived from the 5-year New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) forward strip price at February 29, 2016. Our Standardized Measure is calculated using unhedged oil and natural gas prices and is determined in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC. Numerous changes over time to the assumptions on which our reserve estimates are based, as described above, often result in the actual quantities of oil, natural gas and NGLs we ultimately recover being different from our reserve estimates.38The PV-10 of our proved reserves at December 31, 2015 may not be the same as the current market value of our estimated oil, natural gas and NGLs reserves. You should not assume that the present value of future net reserves (“PV-10”) value of our proved reserves as of December 31, 2015 is the current market value of our estimated oil, natural gas and NGLs reserves. We base the discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on the 12-month first-day-of-the-month oil and natural gas average prices without giving effect to derivative transactions. Actual future net cash flows from our oil and natural gas properties will be affected by factors such as: •the actual prices we receive for oil, natural gas and NGLs;•our actual development and production expenditures;•the amount and timing of actual production; and•changes in governmental regulations or taxation.The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing and amount of actual future net revenues from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating PV-10 may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and natural gas industry in general. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the present value estimates included in this annual report, which could have a material effect on the value of our reserves. The oil and natural gas prices used in computing our PV-10 as of December 31, 2015 under SEC guidelines were $50.20 per barrel of crude oil and $2.62 per MMBtu for natural gas, respectively, before price differentials. Using more recent prices in estimating proved reserves would result in a reduction in proved reserve volumes because they are lower than the prices used in estimated proved reserves and due to economic limits, which would further reduce the PV-10 value of our proved reserves. Our operations require substantial capital expenditures, which will reduce our cash available for distribution. We may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in our reserves and adversely affect our ability to resume distributions to our unitholders. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We have made and ultimately expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures in our business for the development, production and acquisition of oil, natural gas and NGLs reserves. These expenditures will reduce our cash available for distribution. We intend to finance our future capital expenditures with cash flow from operations and our financing arrangements. Our cash flow from operations and our access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including, but not limited to: •our proved reserves;•the level of oil, natural gas and NGLs we are able to produce from existing wells;•the prices at which our oil, natural gas and NGLs are sold; and•our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves.If our revenues or the borrowing base under our Reserve-Based Credit Facility decrease as a result of lower oil, natural gas and NGLs prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels or to replace or add to our reserves. In turn, we may not be able to resume or sustain any distributions without making accretive acquisitions or capital expenditures that replace or add to our reserves. Our Reserve-Based Credit Facility restricts our ability to obtain new debt financing. If additional capital is needed, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. If cash generated by operations or available under our Reserve-Based Credit Facility is not sufficient to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to development of our prospects, which in turn could lead to a possible decline in our reserves and production and a reduction in our cash available for distribution. 39Our business depends on gathering and compression facilities owned by third parties and transportation facilities owned by third-party transporters and we rely on third parties to gather and deliver our oil, natural gas and NGLs to certain designated interconnects with third-party transporters. Any limitation in the availability of those facilities or delay in providing interconnections to newly drilled wells would interfere with our ability to market the oil, natural gas and NGLs we produce and could reduce our revenues and cash available for distribution.The marketability of our oil, natural gas and NGLs production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipeline systems owned by third parties in the respective operating areas. The amount of oil and natural gas that can be produced and sold is subject to curtailment in certain circumstances, such as pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, excessive pressure, physical damage to the gathering, compression or transportation system, or lack of contracted capacity on such systems. The curtailments arising from these and similar circumstances may last from a few days to several months. In many cases, we are provided only with limited, if any, notice as to when these circumstances will arise and their duration. In addition, some of our wells are drilled in locations that are not serviced by gathering and transportation pipelines, or the gathering and transportation pipelines in the area may not have sufficient capacity to transport the additional production. As a result, we may not be able to sell the oil and natural gas production from these wells until the necessary gathering and transportation systems are constructed. Any significant curtailment in gathering system or pipeline capacity, or significant delay in the construction of necessary gathering, compression and transportation facilities, could reduce our revenues and cash available for distribution.We depend on certain key customers for sales of our oil, natural gas and NGLs. To the extent these and other customers reduce the volumes of oil, natural gas and NGLs they purchase from us, or to the extent these customers cease to be creditworthy, our revenues and cash available for distribution could decline.For the year ended December 31, 2015, sales of oil, natural gas and NGLs to Mieco Inc., Marathon Oil Company, ConocoPhillips, Plains Marketing, L.P. and Targa Resources, Inc. accounted for approximately 20%, 7%, 7%, 7%, and 6%, respectively, of our oil, natural gas and NGLs revenues. Our top five purchasers during the year ended December 31, 2015 therefore accounted for 47% of our total revenues. To the extent these and other customers reduce the volumes of oil, natural gas and NGLs that they purchase from us and they are not replaced in a timely manner with a new customer, our revenues and cash available for distribution could decline.Our sales of oil, natural gas and NGLs and other energy commodities, and related hedging activities, expose us to potential regulatory risks.The FTC, FERC and CFTC hold statutory authority to monitor certain segments of the physical and futures energy commodities markets. These agencies have imposed broad regulations prohibiting fraud and manipulation of such markets. With regard to our physical sales of oil, natural gas and NGLs or other energy commodities, and any related hedging activities that we undertake, we are required to observe the market-related regulations enforced by these agencies, which hold substantial enforcement authority. Our sales may also be subject to certain reporting and other requirements. Failure to comply with such regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to resume cash distributions to our unitholders.We are subject to FERC requirements related to our use of capacity on natural gas pipelines that are subject to FERC regulation. Any failure on our part to comply with the FERC’s regulations and policies, or with an interstate pipeline’s tariff, could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties.We are subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business.Our operations are regulated extensively at the federal, state and local levels. Environmental and other governmental laws and regulations have increased the costs to plan, design, drill, install, operate and abandon oil and natural gas wells. Under these laws and regulations, we could also be liable for personal injuries, property and natural resource damage and other damages. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Moreover, public interest in environmental protection has increased in recent years, and environmental organizations have opposed, with some success, certain drilling projects.Part of the regulatory environment in which we operate includes, in some cases, legal requirements for obtaining environmental assessments, environmental impact studies and/or plans of development before commencing drilling and production activities. In addition, our activities are subject to the regulations regarding conservation practices and protection of correlative rights. These regulations affect our operations and limit the quantity of natural gas we may produce and sell. A 40major regulatory requirement inherent in our drilling plans is the need to obtain drilling permits from state and local authorities. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals or drilling permits, the failure to obtain a drilling permit for a well or the receipt of a permit with unreasonable conditions or costs could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop our properties. Additionally, the oil and natural gas regulatory environment could change in ways that might substantially increase the financial and managerial costs of compliance with these laws and regulations and, consequently, adversely affect our profitability. At this time, we cannot predict the effect of this increase on our results of operations. Furthermore, we may be put at a competitive disadvantage to larger companies in our industry that can spread these additional costs over a greater number of wells and larger operating staff. Please read “Item1. Business-Operations-Environmental and Occupational Health and Safety Matters” and “Item 1. Business-Operations-Other Regulation of the Oil and Natural Gas Industry” for a description of the laws and regulations that affect us.The third parties on whom we rely for gathering, compression and transportation services are subject to complex federal, state and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. The operations of the third parties on whom we rely for gathering, compression and transportation services are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations that require obtaining and maintaining numerous permits, approvals and certifications from various federal, state and local government authorities. These third parties may incur substantial costs in order to comply with existing laws and regulations. If existing laws and regulations governing such third-party services are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to their operations, these changes may affect the costs that we pay for such services. Similarly, a failure to comply with such laws and regulations by the third parties on whom we rely could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to resume distributions to our unitholders. We are subject to compliance with environmental and occupational safety and health laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities.The operations of our wells are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment, environmental protection, and the health and safety of employees. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations on our operations including the acquisition of permits, including drilling permits, to conduct regulated activities; the incurrence of capital expenditures to mitigate or prevent releases of materials from our facilities; restriction of types, quantities and concentration of materials that can be released into the environment; limitation or prohibition of construction and operating activities in environmental sensitive areas such as wetlands, wilderness regions and other protected areas; the imposition of substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations; and the application of specific health and safety criteria addressing worker protection. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the EPA and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, often requiring difficult and costly actions.Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of investigatory, corrective action or remedial requirements, and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. Certain environmental statutes impose joint and several strict liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where hazardous substances or wastes have been disposed of or otherwise released. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property or natural resource damage allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances or other waste products into the environment.We may incur significant environmental costs and liabilities in the performance of our operations as a result of our handling petroleum hydrocarbons, hazardous substances and wastes, because of air emissions and wastewater discharges relating to our operations, and due to historical industry operations and waste disposal practices by us or prior operators or other third parties over whom we had no control. For example, an accidental release of petroleum hydrocarbons from one of our wells could subject us to substantial liabilities arising from environmental cleanup and restoration costs, claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury, property and natural resource damage, and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. Moreover, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. Please read “Item 1. Business-Operations-Environmental and Occupational Health Safety Matters.”Climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives restricting emissions of GHGs may adversely affect our operations, our cost structure, or the demand for oil and natural gas.41The adoption of any legislation or regulations that requires reporting of GHGs or otherwise restricts emissions of GHGs from our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of GHGs associated with our operations or could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce. While from time to time Congress has considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, there has not been significant activity in the form of adopted legislation to reduce GHG emissions at the federal level in recent years.The EPA has adopted rules requiring the monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions from certain sources including, among others, onshore and offshore oil and natural gas production facilities in the United States on an annual basis, which include certain of our operations. Please read “Item 1. Business-Operations-Environmental and Occupational Health Safety Matters-Climate Change.” These EPA rulemakings could adversely affect our operations and restrict or delay our ability to obtain air permits for new or modified facilities, should those facilities exceed threshold permitting levels of GHG emissions.A number of state and regional efforts have emerged that are aimed at tracking and/or reducing GHG emissions by means of cap and trade programs that typically require major sources of GHG emissions to acquire and surrender emission allowances in return for emitting those GHGs. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods and other climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our operations. Still other scientists have concluded the sun may be entering an extended period of low-activity similar to the Maunder Minimum of the “Little Ice Age”. They believe this could have significant physical effects, such as increased periods of extended cold including longer winters, shorter growing seasons and increased frequencies of cold snaps; if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our operations.The enactment of derivatives legislation could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business.On July 21, 2010 new comprehensive financial reform legislation, known as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Act”), was enacted that establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as us, that participate in that market. The Act requires the CFTC, the SEC and other regulators to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation. In its rulemaking under the Act, the CFTC has issued final regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. Certain bona fide hedging transactions would be exempt from these position limits. The position limits rule was vacated by the United States District Court for the District of Columbia in September 2012. However, the CFTC introduced new rules in 2013 that would place position limits on future and option contracts and for swaps that are their economic equivalent for certain physical commodities that would be subject to exemptions for bona fide hedges. These rules have not been finalized, and their impact on our hedging activities is uncertain. The CFTC also has finalized other regulations, including critical rulemakings on the definition of “swap,” “security-based swap,” “swap dealer” and “major swap participant”. The Act and CFTC Rules also will require us in connection with certain derivatives activities to comply with clearing and trade-execution requirements (or take steps to qualify for an exemption to such requirements). On December 16, 2015, the CFTC adopted final rules establishing margin requirements for uncleared swaps entered by swap dealers, major swap participants or financial end users (though non-financial end users are excluded from margin requirements). While we do not anticipate being subject to margin requirements as a swap dealer, major swap participant or financial end user, application of these requirements to other market participants could affect the cost and availability of swaps we use for hedging. Other regulations also remain to be finalized, and the CFTC recently has delayed the compliance dates for various regulations already finalized. As a result it is not possible at this time to predict with certainty the full effects of the Act and CFTC rules on us and the timing of such effects. The Act also may require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. The Act and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including from swap recordkeeping and reporting requirements and through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Act and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures or to resume distributions. Finally, the Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the Act and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have material, adverse effect on us, our financial condition, and our results of operations.42Federal, state and local legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing, as well as governmental reviews of such activities, could result in increased costs, operating restrictions or delays, and adversely affect our production.Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of natural gas and/or oil from dense subsurface rock formations. The hydraulic fracturing process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into targeted subsurface formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. We commonly use hydraulic fracturing as part of our operations. While hydraulic fracturing is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions, and other similar state agencies, increased federal interest has arisen in recent years. Please read “Item 1. Business-Operations-Environmental and Occupational Health Safety Matters-Hydraulic Fracturing.” Some states in which we operate, including Montana, North Dakota, Texas and Wyoming, have adopted and other states are considering adopting legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting public disclosure, or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. States could elect to prohibit hydraulic fracturing altogether, as the State of New York announced in December 2014 with regard to fracturing activities in New York. Also, local government may seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place and manner of drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular. If new or more stringent federal, state or local legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where we operate, we could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from drilling wells. Laws and regulations pertaining to threatened and endangered species could delay or restrict our operations and cause us to incur substantial costs.Various federal and state statutes prohibit certain actions that adversely affect endangered or threatened species and their habitats, migratory birds, wetlands and natural resources. These statutes include the ESA, the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, and the Clean Water Act. Moreover, as a result of a settlement approved by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia in September 2011, the FWS is required to make a determination on listing of numerous species as endangered or threatened under the ESA through the agency’s 2018 fiscal year. If endangered species are located in areas of the underlying properties where we wish to conduct seismic surveys, development activities or abandonment operations, such work could be prohibited or delayed or expensive mitigation may be required. If we were to cause harm to species or damages to wetlands, habitat or natural resources as a result of our operations, government entities or, at times, private parties could seek to prevent oil and gas exploration or development activities or seek damages for harm to species, habitat or natural resources resulting from drilling or construction or releases of oil, wastes, hazardous substances or other regulated materials, and, in some cases, the government could seek criminal penalties. The designation of previously unprotected species as threatened or endangered in areas where underlying property operations are conducted could cause us to incur increased costs arising from species protection measures or could result in limitations on our exploration and production activities that could have an adverse impact on our ability to develop and produce reserves. While some of our facilities or leased acreage may be located in areas that are designated as habitat for endangered or threatened species, we believe our operations are in substantial compliance with the ESA. Please read “Item 1. Business-Operations-Environmental and Occupational Health Safety Matters-Endangered Species Act Considerations.”Locations that we or the operators of our properties decide to drill may not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities.The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a well. Our efforts will be uneconomical if we or the operators of our properties drill dry holes or wells that are productive but do not produce enough to be commercially viable after drilling, operating and other costs. If we or the operators of our properties drill future wells that we identify as dry holes, our drilling success rate would decline and may adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to pay future cash distributions at expected levels. Many of our leases are in areas that have been partially depleted or drained by offset wells.43Many of our leases are in areas that have already been partially depleted or drained by earlier offset drilling. The owners of leasehold interests lying contiguous or adjacent to or adjoining any of our properties could take actions, such as drilling additional wells that could adversely affect our operations. When a new well is completed and produced, the pressure differential in the vicinity of the well causes the migration of reservoir fluids towards the new wellbore (and potentially away from existing wellbores). As a result, the drilling and production of these potential locations could cause a depletion of our proved reserves, and may inhibit our ability to further exploit and develop our reserves. Our identified drilling location inventories are scheduled out over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling, resulting in temporarily lower cash from operations, which may impact our ability to resume distributions. Our prospective drilling locations are in various stages of evaluation, ranging from a prospect that is ready to drill to a prospect that will require additional geological and engineering analysis. Based on a variety of factors, including future oil, natural gas and NGLs prices, the generation of additional seismic or geological information, the availability of drilling rigs and other factors, we may decide not to drill one or more of these prospects.Our management has specifically identified and scheduled drilling locations as an estimation of our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing leasehold acreage. As of December 31, 2015, we have identified 1,591 proved undeveloped drilling locations and over 5,013 additional drilling locations. These identified drilling locations represent a significant part of our strategy. The SEC’s reserve reporting rules include a general requirement that, subject to limited exceptions, proved undeveloped reserves may only be booked if they relate to wells scheduled to be drilled within five years of the date of booking. To the extent that we do not drill these locations within five years of initial booking, they may not continue to qualify for classification as proved reserves, and we may be required to reclassify such reserves as unproved reserves. The reclassification of such reserves could also have a negative effect on the borrowing base under our Reserve-Based Credit Facility. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including, among others, the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating costs and drilling results. In addition, we have not assigned any proved reserves to the over 5,013 unproved drilling locations we have identified and scheduled for drilling and therefore there may exist greater uncertainty with respect to the success of drilling wells at these drilling locations. Our final determination on whether to drill any of these drilling locations will be dependent upon the factors described above as well as, to some degree, the results of our drilling activities with respect to our proved drilling locations. Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if the numerous drilling locations we have identified will be drilled within our expected timeframe or will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce oil or natural gas from these or any other potential drilling locations. As such, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified, which could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and our ability to resume distributions.Drilling for and producing oil, natural gas and NGLs are high-risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations and, as a result, our ability to resume distributions to our unitholders. Our drilling activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that we will not discover commercially productive reservoirs. Drilling for oil or natural gas can be uneconomical, not only from dry holes, but also from productive wells that do not produce sufficient revenues to be commercially viable. In addition, our drilling and producing operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of other factors, including, but not limited to: •the high cost, shortages or delivery delays of equipment and services;•shortages of or delays in obtaining water for hydraulic fracturing operations;•unexpected operational events and conditions;•adverse weather conditions;•human errors;•facility or equipment malfunctions;•title deficiencies that can render a lease worthless;44•compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements;•unusual or unexpected geological formations;•loss of drilling fluid circulation;•formations with abnormal pressures;•environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline and tank ruptures, encountering naturally occurring radioactive materials, and unauthorized discharges of brine, well stimulation and completion fluids, toxic gases or other pollutants into the surface and subsurface environment;•fires;•blowouts, craterings and explosions;•uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids; and•pipeline capacity curtailments.Any of these events can cause substantial losses, including personal injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution, environmental contamination, loss of wells and regulatory penalties. We ordinarily maintain insurance against various losses and liabilities arising from our operations; however, insurance against all operational risks is not available to us. Additionally, we may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the perceived risks presented. Losses could therefore occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse impact on our business activities, financial condition and results of operations.We may incur substantial additional debt in the future to enable us to pursue our business plan and to resume paying distributions to our unitholders. Our business requires a significant amount of capital expenditures to maintain and grow production levels. Commodity prices have historically been volatile, and we cannot predict the prices we will be able to realize for our production in the future. As a result, we may borrow, to the extent available, significant amounts under our Reserve-Based Credit Facility in the future to enable us to pay monthly distributions. Significant declines in our production or significant declines in realized oil, natural gas and NGLs prices for prolonged periods and resulting decreases in our borrowing base may force us to continue to suspend distributions to our unitholders. If we borrow to pay distributions, we are distributing more cash than we are generating from our operations on a current basis. This means that we are using a portion of our borrowing capacity under our Reserve-Based Credit Facility to pay distributions rather than to maintain or expand our operations. If we use borrowings under our Reserve-Based Credit Facility to pay distributions for an extended period of time rather than toward funding capital expenditures and other matters relating to our operations, we may be unable to support or grow our business. Such a curtailment of our business activities, combined with our payment of principal and interest on our future indebtedness to pay these distributions, will reduce our cash available for distribution on our common units. If we borrow to pay distributions during periods of low commodity prices and commodity prices remain low, we may have to reduce or suspend our distribution in order to avoid excessive leverage and debt covenant violations. Seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations adversely affect our ability to conduct drilling activities in some of the areas where we operate. Seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations can limit our drilling and producing activities and other operations in some of our operating areas and as a result, we generally perform the majority of our drilling in these areas during the summer and fall months. These seasonal anomalies can pose challenges for meeting our well drilling objectives and increase competition for equipment, supplies and personnel during the spring and summer months, which could lead to shortages and increased costs or delay our operations. Additionally, many municipalities impose weight restrictions on the paved roads that lead to our jobsites due to the muddy conditions caused by spring thaws. This limits our access to these jobsites and our ability to service wells in these areas. Generally, but not always, oil is in higher demand in the summer for its use in road construction 45and natural gas is in higher demand in the winter for heating. Seasonal anomalies such as mild winters or hot summers sometimes lessen this fluctuation. In addition, certain natural gas consumers utilize natural gas storage facilities and purchase some of their anticipated winter requirements during the summer. This can also lessen seasonal demand fluctuations. Our price risk management activities could result in financial losses or could reduce our cash flow, which may adversely affect our ability to resume distributions to our unitholders. We enter into derivative contracts to reduce the impact of oil, natural gas and NGLs price volatility on our cash flow from operations. Currently, we primarily use fixed-price swaps, basis swap contracts and other hedge option contracts to hedge oil and natural gas prices. Please read “Item 1. Business—Operations—Price Risk and Interest Rate Management Activities” and “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” for additional information about our price risk management activities. Our actual future production may be significantly higher or lower than we estimate at the time we enter into derivative contracts for such period. If the actual amount of production is higher than we estimate, we will have greater commodity price exposure than we intended. If the actual amount of production is lower than the notional amount that is subject to our derivative financial instruments, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our derivative transactions without the benefit of the cash flow from our sale of the underlying physical commodity, resulting in a substantial diminution of our liquidity. As a result of these factors, our hedging activities may not be as effective as we intend in reducing the volatility of our cash flows, and in certain circumstances may actually increase the volatility of our cash flows. In addition, our price risk management activities are subject to the following risks: •a counterparty may not perform its obligation under the applicable derivative instrument;•there may be a change in the expected differential between the underlying commodity price in the derivative instrument and the actual price received; and•the steps we take to monitor our derivative financial instruments may not detect and prevent violations of our risk management policies and procedures. Our price risk management arrangements in place will not fully mitigate the effect of oil, natural gas and NGLs price volatility, and our revenue and results of operations will be adversely affected if prices remain at current levels or decline further. In the current commodity price environment, we are less likely to hedge future revenues to the same extent as our historical and existing hedging arrangements. As such, our revenues will become more susceptible to commodity price volatility as our commodity price hedges settle and are not replaced.We are exposed to trade credit risk in the ordinary course of our business activities.We are exposed to risks of loss in the event of nonperformance by our vendors, customers, joint interest owners and by counterparties to our price risk management arrangements. Some of our vendors, customers, joint interest owners and counterparties may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. Many of our vendors, customers, joint interest owners and counterparties finance their activities through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. The combination of reduction of cash flow resulting from declines in commodity prices and the lack of availability of debt or equity financing may result in a significant reduction in our vendors’, customers’, joint interest owners’ and counterparties’ liquidity and ability to make payments or perform on their obligations to us. Even if our credit review and analysis mechanisms work properly, we may experience financial losses in our dealings with other parties. Any increase in the nonpayment or nonperformance by our vendors, customers, joint interest owners and/or counterparties could reduce our ability to resume distributions to our unitholders.We depend on senior management personnel, each of whom would be difficult to replace.We depend on the performance of Scott W. Smith, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Richard A. Robert, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Britt Pence, our Executive Vice President of Operations. We do not maintain key person insurance for any of Mr. Smith, Mr. Robert or Mr. Pence. The loss of any or all of Messrs. Smith, Robert and Pence could negatively impact our ability to execute our strategy and our results of operations.Conservation measures and technological advances could reduce demand for oil and natural gas. 46Fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, increasing consumer demand for alternatives to oil and natural gas, technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices could reduce demand for oil and natural gas. The impact of the changing demand for oil and natural gas services and products may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.We may be unable to compete effectively with larger companies in the oil and natural gas industry, which may adversely affect our ability to generate sufficient revenue to allow us to pay distributions to our unitholders. The oil and natural gas industry is intensely competitive, and we compete with other companies that have greater resources. Our ability to acquire additional properties and to discover reserves in the future will be dependent upon our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Many of our larger competitors not only drill for and produce oil, natural gas and NGLs, but also carry on refining operations and market petroleum and other products on a regional, national or worldwide basis. These companies may be able to pay more for oil and natural gas properties and evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties than our financial or human resources permit. In addition, these companies may have a greater ability to continue drilling activities during periods of low oil, natural gas and NGLs prices and to absorb the burden of present and future federal, state, local and other laws and regulations. Furthermore, we may not be able to aggregate sufficient quantities of production to compete with our larger competitors that are able to sell greater volumes of production to intermediaries, thereby reducing the realized prices attributable to our production. Our inability to compete effectively with larger companies could have a material adverse impact on our business activities, financial condition and results of operations.SEC rules could limit our ability to book additional proved undeveloped reserves in the future. SEC rules require that, subject to limited exceptions, proved undeveloped reserves may only be booked if they relate to wells scheduled to be drilled within five years after the date of booking. This requirement has limited and may continue to limit our ability to book additional proved undeveloped reserves as we pursue our drilling program. Moreover, we may be required to write down our proved undeveloped reserves if we do not drill those wells within the required five-year timeframe. Risks Related to Our StructureOur limited liability company agreement limits our duties to our unitholders and restricts the remedies available to our unitholders for actions taken by us that might otherwise constitute breaches of duty.Our limited liability agreement contains provisions that reduce the standards to which we might otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example, our limited liability company agreement:•provides that our board of directors and our directors and officers will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made so long as our board of directors or any director or officer acted in good faith, meaning that our board of directors or such director or officer believed the determination or other action was in our best interests;•provides generally that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by our conflicts committee and not involving a vote of our unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or be “fair and reasonable” to us, as determined by us in good faith, and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” we may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us; and•provides that we and our officers and directors will not be liable to us or our unitholders for losses sustained or liabilities incurred as a result of any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining in respect of such matter or question that we or such other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud, willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal.Our unitholders are bound by the provisions in our liability company agreement, including those discussed above.Our limited liability company agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our units.Our unitholders’ voting rights are restricted by the provision in our limited liability company agreement providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our founding unitholder and his 47affiliates or transferees and persons who acquire such units with the prior approval of the board of directors, cannot vote on any matter. Our limited liability agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management.We may issue an unlimited number of additional units without common unitholder approval, which would dilute the ownership interest of existing unitholders.Under our limited liability company agreement, we may, without the approval of our unitholders, issue an unlimited number of additional limited liability company interests of any type, including common units, without the approval of our unitholders.The issuance by us of additional units or other equity securities may have the following effects:•our existing unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us may decrease;•the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease;•the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and•the market price of our common units may decline. Our limited liability company agreement provides for a limited call right that may require unitholders to sell their units at an undesirable time or price. If, at any time, any person owns more than 90% of the units then outstanding, such person has the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the remaining units then outstanding at a price not less than the then-current market price of the units. As a result, unitholders may be required to sell their units at an undesirable time or price and therefore may receive a lower or no return on their investment. Unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units.We do not have the same flexibility as other types of organizations to accumulate cash and equity to protect against illiquidity in the future. Unlike a corporation, our limited liability company agreement requires us to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders of all available cash, reduced by any amounts of reserves for commitments and contingencies, including capital and operating costs and debt service requirements. We pay distributions on monthly basis. The value of our units, including common units, may decrease in direct correlation with decreases in the amount we distribute per unit. Accordingly, if we experience a liquidity problem in the future, we may have difficulty issuing more equity to recapitalize.Our management may have conflicts of interest with our unitholders. Our limited liability company agreement limits the remedies available to our unitholders in the event our unitholders have a claim relating to conflicts of interest. Conflicts of interest may arise between our management, on the one hand, and the Company and our unitholders, on the other hand, related to the divergent interests of our management. Situations in which the interests of our management may differ from interests of our non-affiliated unitholders include, among others, the following situations:•our limited liability company agreement gives our board of directors broad discretion in establishing cash reserves for the proper conduct of our business, which will affect the amount of cash available for distribution. For example, our management will use its reasonable discretion to establish and maintain cash reserves sufficient to fund our drilling program;•our management team, subject to oversight from our board of directors , determines the timing and extent of our drilling program and related capital expenditures, asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuances of additional units and reserve adjustments, all of which will affect the amount of cash that we distribute to our unitholders; and•affiliates of our directors are not prohibited under our limited liability company agreement from investing or engaging in other businesses or activities that compete with us.48The price of our units could be subject to wide fluctuations and unitholders could lose a significant part of their investment. During 2015, the quoted market prices of our common and preferred units fluctuated as follows: Low HighCommon unit (VNR) $2.41 $19.50Series A Preferred unit (VNRAP) $5.91 $25.23Series B Preferred unit (VNRBP) $4.67 $23.76Series C Preferred unit (VNRCP) $5.39 $24.24The market prices of our common and preferred units are subject to fluctuations in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot control, including, but not limited to: •fluctuations in broader securities market prices and volumes, particularly among securities of oil and natural gas companies and securities of publicly traded limited partnerships and limited liability companies;•changes in general conditions in the U.S. economy, financial markets or the oil and natural gas industry, including fluctuations in commodity prices;•changes in securities analysts’ recommendations and their estimates of our financial performance;•the public’s reaction to our press releases, announcements and our filings with the SEC;•changes in market valuations of similar companies;•departures of key personnel;•commencement of or involvement in litigation;•variations in our quarterly results of operations or those of other oil and natural gas companies;•variations in the amount of our monthly cash distributions; and•future issuances and sales of our units.In recent years, and in particular during 2015, the securities market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Future market fluctuations may result in a lower price of our common units. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions.Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 18-607 of the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act, or the “Delaware Act,” we may not make a distribution to unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Under Delaware law, a unitholder who received an impermissible distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to us for the distribution amount. Any such unitholder will have no liability for the account of any such distribution after three years from the date of the distribution unless an action to recover the distribution from that unitholder is conditioned within such three-year period and such unitholder is adjudicated liable in the action. A purchaser of common units who becomes a member is liable for the obligations of the transferring member to make contributions to the limited liability company that are known to such purchaser of units at the time it became a member and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from our limited liability company agreement. An increase in interest rates may cause the market price of our common units to decline.Like all equity investments, an investment in our common units is subject to certain risks. In exchange for accepting these risks, investors may expect to receive a higher rate of return than would otherwise be obtainable from lower-risk investments. Accordingly, as interest rates rise, the ability of investors to obtain higher risk-adjusted rates of return by purchasing 49government-backed debt securities may cause a corresponding decline in demand for riskier investments generally, including yield-based equity investments such as publicly traded limited liability company interests. Reduced demand for our units resulting from investors seeking other more favorable investment opportunities may cause the trading price of our common units to decline, and may negatively affect our ability to issue additional equity or incur debt. Tax Risks to UnitholdersOur tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states or local entities. If the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) were to treat us as a corporation or if we were to become subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state or local tax purposes, those events would substantially reduce the amount of cash available for payment of distributions on our common units. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on us being treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A publicly traded partnership such as Vanguard will be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes unless we satisfy the “qualifying income” requirement. Based on our current operations, we believe that we satisfy the qualifying income requirement and will therefore be treated as a partnership. Failing to meet the qualifying income requirement or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If we were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to our common unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gain, loss, or deduction would flow through to unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed on us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would likely be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of Vanguard as a corporation would likely result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our units.At the state level, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Imposition of any such tax on us by any such state will reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our unitholders are required to pay taxes on their share of our taxable income, including their share of ordinary income upon cancellation of a portion of our debt, even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. A unitholder’s share of our taxable income, gain, loss and deduction, or specific items thereof, may be substantially different from the unitholder’s interest in our distributable cash flow.Because our unitholders will be allocated taxable income that could be different in amount from the cash we distribute, they will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income, whether or not they receive any cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from their share of our taxable income. As of February 25, 2016, we have suspended all cash distributions to unitholders and monthly cash distributions to holders of our preferred units. We may engage in transactions to de-lever the Company and manage our liquidity that may result in income and gain to our unitholders. For example, if we sell assets, our unitholders may be allocated taxable income and gain resulting from the sale. Further, we have in the past engaged in, and may in the future engage in, debt exchanges, debt repurchases, modifications of our existing debt, or similar transactions that resulted in, or could result in, “cancellation of indebtedness income” (also referred to as “COD income”) being allocated to our unitholders as taxable income. Unitholders may be allocated gain and income from asset sales and COD income and may owe income tax as a result of such allocations notwithstanding the fact that we have currently suspended cash distributions to our unitholders. For example, our issuance on February 10, 2016 of approximately $75.6 million aggregate principal amount of new Senior Secured Second Lien Notes to certain eligible holders of Senior Notes due 2020 in exchange for approximately $168.2 million aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes due 2020 has resulted in the COD income that will be allocated to our unitholders as of February 29, 2016. Some or all of our unitholders may be allocated substantial amounts of such taxable COD income, and income tax liabilities arising therefrom may exceed cash distributions. The ultimate effect to each unitholder will depend on the unitholder's individual tax position with respect to the units; however, taxable income allocations from us, including allocations of COD income, increase a unitholder’s tax basis in his units.50A unitholder’s share of our taxable income and gain (or specific items thereof) may be substantially greater than, or our tax losses and deductions (or specific items thereof) may be substantially less than, the unitholder’s interest in our distributable cash flow. This may occur, for example, in the case of a unitholder who owns units in the month in which the cancellation of debt occurs or a unitholder who acquires units directly from us in exchange for a contribution of property whose fair market value exceeds its tax basis at the time of the contribution. Unitholders are encouraged to consult their tax advisors with respect to the consequences of potential transactions that may result in income and gain to unitholders.The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or of an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes or differing interpretations, possibly applied on a retroactive basis.The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or of an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time. For example, the Obama Administration’s budget proposal for fiscal year 2017 recommends that publicly traded partnerships earning income from activities related to fossil fuels be taxed as corporations beginning in 2022. From time to time, members of Congress also propose and consider substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships, including the elimination of the qualifying income exception upon which we rely for our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will be reintroduced or will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws may be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible for us to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, the costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected.If a unitholder sells his common units, he will recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and his tax basis in those common units. Prior distributions per common unit to a unitholder in excess of the total net taxable income allocated per common unit to such unitholder will decrease such unitholder’s tax basis in that common unit. The amount of this decreased tax basis will, in effect, become taxable income to him to the extent the common unit is sold at a price greater than his tax basis in that common unit, even if the sales price is less than his original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if a unitholder sells his common units, he may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash he receives from the sale. Treatment of distributions on our preferred units as guaranteed payments for the use of capital creates a different tax treatment for the holders of our preferred units than the holders of our common units.The Company will treat distributions on the preferred units as guaranteed payments for the use of capital that will generally be taxable to the holders of preferred units as ordinary income. Although a holder of preferred units could recognize taxable income from the accrual of such a guaranteed payment even in the absence of a contemporaneous distribution, the company anticipates accruing and making the guaranteed payment distributions monthly. Otherwise, the holders of preferred units are generally not anticipated to share in the Company’s items of income, gain, loss or deduction. Nor will the Company allocate any share of its nonrecourse liabilities to the holders of preferred units. A holder of preferred units will be required to recognize gain or loss on a sale of units equal to the difference between the unitholder’s amount realized and tax basis in the units sold. The amount realized generally will equal the sum of the cash and the fair market value of other property such holder receives in exchange for such preferred units. Subject to general rules requiring a blended basis among multiple partnership interests, the tax basis of a preferred unit will generally be equal to the sum of the cash and the fair market value of other property paid by the unitholder to acquire such preferred unit. Gain or loss recognized by a unitholder on the sale or exchange of a preferred unit held for more than one year generally will be taxable as long-term capital gain or loss. Because holders of preferred units will not be allocated a share of the Company’s items of 51depreciation, depletion or amortization, it is not anticipated that such holders would be required to recharacterize any portion of their gain as ordinary income as a result of the recapture rules.Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units or our preferred units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.Investment in our common units or our preferred units by tax-exempt entities, such as individual retirement accounts (“IRAs”), other retirement plans and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file United States federal tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If a Vanguard unitholder is a tax-exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, he should consult his tax advisor before investing in our common units or in our preferred units.We treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units.Due to a number of factors, including our inability to match transferors and transferees of our common units, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of our common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. Recently, the U.S. Treasury Department issued proposed Treasury Regulations that provide a safe harbor pursuant to which a publicly traded partnership may use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items among transferor and transferee unitholders. The proposed regulations do not, however, specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to challenge this proration method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.A unitholder whose units are the subject of a securities loan (e.g. a loan to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units) may be considered to have disposed of those units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because there are no specific rules governing the U.S. federal income tax consequences of loaning a partnership interest, a unitholder whose units are the subject of a securities loan may be considered to have disposed of the loaned units. In that case, the unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a securities loan are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have constructively terminated our partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same interest are counted only once. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and our unitholders receiving two Schedule K-1s) for one calendar year and could result in a deferral of 52depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a calendar year, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in such unitholder’s taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead, we would be treated as a new partnership for federal income tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine in a timely manner that a termination occurred. The IRS has announced a relief procedure whereby if a publicly traded partnership that has technically terminated requests and the IRS grants special relief, the partnership may be permitted to provide only a single Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the tax year in which the termination occurs. Certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. The fiscal year 2017 budget proposed by the President recommends the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and gas exploration and production companies, and legislation has been introduced in Congress which would implement many of these proposals. These changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities, and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether these or similar changes will be enacted and, if enacted, how soon any such changes could become effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, and any such change could increase the taxable income allocable to our unitholders and negatively impact the value of an investment in our units. Our unitholders may be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where they do not live as a result of investing in our common units. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to return filing requirements and other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if you do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those return filings requirements. We currently conduct business and own assets in many states. Several of these states currently impose a personal income tax on individuals and all of these states impose an income tax on corporations and other entities. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may conduct business or own assets in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is the responsibility of each of our unitholders to file all U.S. federal, state and local tax returns.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 