Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business and an investment in our securities are subject to a variety of risks. The following risk factors describe the most significant events, facts or circumstances that could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to implement our business plan, and the market price for our securities. Many of these events are outside of our control. If any of these risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operation may be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and investors in our common stock could lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to Our Business We are a holding company that depends on cash flow from our wholly owned subsidiaries to meet our obligations, and any inability of our subsidiaries to pay us dividends or make other payments to us when needed could disrupt or have a negative impact on our business. After our acquisition of Taiyu in 2008, we became a holding company with no material assets other than the ownership interests of our subsidiaries through which we conduct operations. We rely on dividends paid by our subsidiaries for our cash needs, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, to service any debt we may incur and to pay our operating expenses. China has currency and capital transfer regulations that require us to comply with complex regulations for the movement of capital. PRC regulations currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in China. Our PRC subsidiaries also are required to set aside at least 10% of net income after taxes based on PRC accounting standards each year to statutory surplus reserves until the cumulative amount of such reserves reaches 50% of registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. Our PRC subsidiaries also may allocate a portion of their after-tax profits to their staff welfare and bonus funds, which may not be distributed to equity owners except in the event of liquidation. Furthermore, if any of our subsidiaries incur debt, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Accordingly, if our subsidiaries are unable to pay us dividends and make other payments to us when needed because of regulatory restrictions or otherwise, we may be materially and adversely limited in our ability to make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends or otherwise fund and conduct our business. Our subsidiaries have generated losses from operations in the fiscal years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011. As such, our subsidiaries have been unable to remit funds to us for the payment of our obligations. To fulfill our need for short-term financing, on July 27, 2012, we executed a Credit Agreement with Northtech, which, as amended, provides us with a $2,500,000 revolving line of credit with amounts borrowed due April 30, 2014. We believe this line of credit will be sufficient to satisfy our operating costs through mid 2014. We are also pursuing other options, including restructuring operations at the subsidiary level to regain profitability and entering into management and services agreements with our subsidiaries, subject to the approval of regulatory agencies in China. However, we cannot provide any assurances that these measures will be adequate to satisfy our liquidity needs, and if we are not able to obtain sufficient funds from our subsidiaries to pay our obligations as they come due, our business could be negatively impacted. We face risks associated with a purported securities class action lawsuit, which if successful, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and could harm our reputation. On August 31, 2012, a putative class action lawsuit, Steven Leshinsky v. James Wang, et. al., which purported to allege federal securities law claims against the Company and certain of its former offers and directors, was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. Thereafter, two plaintiffs filed competing motions to be appointed lead plaintiff in the proceeding. A lead plaintiff was appointed and an amended complaint was filed on January 28, 2013, by the Rosen Law Firm. The amended complaint included Oliver Bialowons, our President, and Michael Wilhelm, our former Chief Financial Officer, as defendants in the proceeding though they were not officers of the Company during the alleged class period. A second amended complaint was filed on April 8, 2013, under the caption Stream Sicav, Dharanendra Rai et al. v. James Jun Wang , Smartheat, Inc. et al., removing Messrs. Wilhelm and Bialowons as defendants. The second amended complaint alleges two counts against the Company, both for violations of the federal securities laws arising from alleged insider sales or management sales of securities and alleged false disclosures relating to those sales. On May 8, 2013, we filed a motion to dismiss the second amended complaint on the grounds that the plaintiffs did not, in fact, allege that a member of our senior management team had sold their shares. On March 17, 2014 the court, denied, the lead plaintiff's motion for class certification, without prejudice to move again for such certification pending (1) the resolution of Halliburton Co. v. Erica P. John Fund, Inc., No. 13-317 (U.S. 2014)by the Supreme Court of the United States regarding the viability of the efficient market theory andthe plaintiffs’ claim that reliance, and therefore injury, can be determined on a classwide basis and(2) defendants' compliance with their discovery obligations. Any adverse decision in this action, requiring us to pay substantial damages to the plaintiffs could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and could harm our reputation. We believe this lawsuit is frivolous and without merit and will contest it vigorously. Please see Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” for additional information with respect to this matter. 13 Table of Contents The markets served by our subsidiaries are subject to seasonality and cyclical demand, which could harm our business and make it difficult to project long-term performance. Demand for our subsidiaries’ products depends in part upon the level of capital and maintenance expenditures of their customers and end users. These expenditures historically have been cyclical in nature and vulnerable to economic downturns. Decreased capital and maintenance spending by our subsidiaries’ customers could have a material adverse effect on the demand for their products and our business, financial condition and results of operations. In particular, an economic slowdown in the domestic China economy may result in reduced orders for PHEs from the steel processing and petrochemical sectors and lower orders for PHE Units from the HVAC sector. In response to inflationary concerns, the PRC government instituted tightened fiscal policies in 2011 that contributed to a general slowdown in many sectors of China’s economy and restricted bank lending practices. Accordingly, many state-owned enterprises in China, including real estate developers, encountered difficulties in 2011 and 2012 in obtaining grants from the PRC government and faced an extended bank loan application process, both of which typically are used to finance the purchase of our subsidiaries’ products. If the PRC government continues its deflationary policies and efforts to stabilize economic growth in China, such disruptions may continue to adversely impact the capital needs of our subsidiaries’ customers, which, in turn, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Additionally, the historically cyclical nature of the demand for our subsidiaries’ products limits our ability to make accurate long-term predictions about our performance, however. Furthermore, sales of heat exchangers and related systems may fluctuate significantly due to the seasonal nature of central heating services in the PRC because the equipment used in residential buildings must be delivered and installed prior to the beginning of the heating season in late fall, which occurs during the third and fourth calendar quarters in China. To date, our subsidiaries have not been adversely affected by these seasonality trends and, given the current demand visibility, we do not currently foresee weakening in the demand for their products going forward in the next year. However, the seasonality of our subsidiaries’ business may result in significant operational challenges to their production and inventory control functions. Our subsidiaries’ accounts receivables remain outstanding for a significant period of time, which has a negative impact on our cash flow and liquidity. Our subsidiaries’ agreements with their customers generally provide that 30% of the purchase price is due upon the placement of an order, 30% upon delivery and 30% upon installation and acceptance of the equipment after customer testing. As a common practice in the heating manufacturing business in China, payment of the final 10% of the purchase price is due no later than the termination date of the standard warranty period, which ranges from 3 to 24 months from the acceptance date. Due to the slowdown of the Chinese economy and tightened monetary policy, and in order to attract and retain customers, the Company’s subsidiaries have been forced to adjust their contract terms to permit for more flexible and longer payment terms. We record revenue and corresponding accounts receivable when products are delivered to customers, and for PHE Units, when customer acceptance occurs following delivery. Payments received prior to product delivery, or customer acceptance for PHE Units, are recorded as unearned revenue. Our subsidiaries may experience payment delays from time to time, which historically have ranged from 1 to 3 months from the due date. While these payment delays are common in the heating manufacturing industry in China, such delays cause capital to be tied up in receivables, which may result in pressure on our cash flows and liquidity. In 2013, we had accounts receivable turnover of 1.94, with days sales outstanding of 186 and inventory turnover of 0.61. In 2012, we had accounts receivable turnover of 1.21, with days sales outstanding of 303 and inventory turnover of 0.58. The low accounts receivable turnover and high days outstanding in 2013 is due to an unexpected abandonment of projects, cancelation of orders and delays in the performance of PHE and PHE Unit contracts from certain state-owned customers due to the tightened fiscal policy in China during 2012. The low inventory turnover in 2013 was due to increased raw materials inventory on hand for the readiness of the high production season during the second half of 2013 and increased finished goods inventory resulting from orders that have been delayed or canceled in 2013. While historically collections have been reasonably assured, delays in collections and the significant period of time our subsidiaries’ accounts receivable remain outstanding may negatively impact our cash flow and liquidity. Our subsidiaries acquire most components for the manufacture of their products from a limited number of suppliers, and if they are unable to obtain these components, they would experience manufacturing delays and our financial results could be adversely affected. Our subsidiaries acquire most of the components for the manufacture of their products from a limited number of suppliers. To manufacture their products, these components must be available when needed, at the right level of quality and at the right price. If they are unable to obtain these components accordingly, they would experience delays in manufacturing their products and our financial results could be adversely affected. Suppliers of some of these components require our subsidiaries to place orders with significant lead-time to assure supply in accordance with their requirements. Certain of these suppliers are currently the sole source of one or more components upon which our subsidiaries are dependent and alternative sources would not be available for those components unless our subsidiaries were to redesign their products. Other components could be obtained from alternate suppliers without redesign, but only at higher prices than our subsidiaries currently pay or for delivery later than required by their production schedule. Our subsidiaries maintain a relatively small inventory of component parts for resale and their parts services business would suffer if the supply of replacement parts was reduced or terminated by their suppliers. If suppliers are not able to provide these critical components on the dates and at the prices scheduled, our subsidiaries may not be able to manufacture their products promptly and cost-effectively to meet customer orders, which could harm their credibility and the market acceptance and sales of their products. 14 Table of Contents Our subsidiaries are a major purchaser of certain goods and raw materials that they use in the manufacturing process of their products, and price changes for the commodities they depend on may adversely affect our profitability. Our profitability depends upon the margin between the cost to our subsidiaries of certain goods used in the manufacturing process, such as plates, pumps, water tanks, sensors, controlling systems and other raw materials, as well as their fabrication costs associated with converting such goods and raw materials compared to the selling price of their products, and the overall supply of raw materials. Our subsidiaries have experienced and anticipate continued fluctuation in raw material costs as a result of world economic conditions, such as the price of stainless steel used to produce plates for their PHEs and PHE Units. Our subsidiaries monitor the commodities markets for pricing trends and changes, but do not engage in hedging transactions to protect against raw material fluctuations. Instead, our subsidiaries attempt to mitigate the short-term risks of price swings by purchasing raw materials in advance based on production needs and projected sales. However, they may not be able to pass all increases in raw material costs and ancillary acquisition costs associated with taking possession of the raw materials through to their customers. Although they are currently able to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials, it is impossible to predict future availability or cost. With the rapid growth of China’s economy, the demand for certain raw materials is great while the supply may be more limited. This may affect our subsidiaries ability to secure the necessary raw materials in a cost-effective manner for production of their products at the volume of purchase orders that they anticipate receiving. The inability to offset price increases of raw materials by sufficient product price increases, and an inability to obtain raw materials, would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our subsidiaries may experience material disruptions to their manufacturing operations in China that could result in material delays, quality control issues, increased costs and loss of business opportunities, which may negatively impact our sales and financial results. Our subsidiaries rely on our manufacturing facilities in China to operate our business and produce our products. While they seek to operate their facilities in compliance with applicable rules and regulations and take measures to minimize the risks of disruption at their facilities, a material disruption at one of our subsidiaries’ manufacturing facilities could prevent them from meeting customer demand, reduce their sales and negatively impact our financial results. Any of their manufacturing facilities, or any of their machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including: prolonged power failures; equipment failures; disruptions in the transportation infrastructure including roads, bridges, railroad tracks; fires, floods, earthquakes or other catastrophes; and other operational problems. Any such material disruption may prevent our subsidiaries from shipping their products on a timely basis, reduce their sales and market share and negatively impact our financial results. Our subsidiaries may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals for their products, which could result in a decrease in clients and revenue, unexpected expenses and loss of market share. Some of our subsidiaries products are subject to PRC and international regulations related to the heating manufacturing industry. Manufacturers of heat meters and heat pumps in China require licenses issued by the PRC government to produce and sell these products in the domestic market. The Safety Bureau overseeing heat meter and heat pump production conducts site visits and inspections of documents on a periodic basis to verify adherence to the standards. PHEs and PHE Units are not subject to material regulation by the PRC government or other national agencies, but many purchasers of these products in industries utilizing high temperatures or pressure in the production process prefer to source from manufactures that have obtained a PRC National Safety Certification for their PHE products. The European Commission has promulgated standards, such as EN 378 Safety and Environmental Requirements, for heat pumps and products sold in the European Union must carry CE marking, indicating conformity with such requirements. As of December 31, 2013, our subsidiaries had no regulatory approvals pending for our products or that we need to obtain to conduct our business. Our subsidiaries received licenses to manufacture and sell heat meters and heat pumps in China in 2005 and 2008, respectively, which are continuing to be maintained through renewals. Our subsidiaries seek to manufacture all products to customer specifications and believe that their products meet all currently applicable national test standards. Any failure to manufacture and deliver products in compliance with all applicable standards and regulations for the markets in which our subsidiaries’ products are distributed may subject them to fines, penalties or business interruptions and could result in a decrease in clients or loss of market share. In addition, new or revised standards and regulations applicable to our subsidiaries’ products could require them to redesign existing and planned products, acquire new manufacturing equipment or incur other significant expenses. If our subsidiaries are not able to obtain regulatory approvals for our products based on the applicable standards and regulations, it could have material and adverse effects on our business, financial condition and prospects. 15 Table of Contents We cannot be certain that our subsidiaries’ product innovations will continue or that their technology will continue to satisfy the changing needs of their customers, which could result in a decrease in clients and revenue, unexpected expenses and loss of market share. We believe that our subsidiaries’ past performance has been based on, and that their future success will depend, in part, upon their ability to continue to improve their existing products through product innovation and to develop, market and produce new products. We cannot assure you our subsidiaries will be successful in introducing, marketing and producing any new products or product innovations, or that they will develop and introduce in a timely manner innovations to their existing products which satisfy customer needs or achieve market acceptance. Our subsidiaries’ failure to develop new products and introduce them successfully and in a timely manner could harm our ability to grow our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. As with any technology, including the technology of our subsidiaries’ current and proposed products, there are risks that the technology may not successfully address all of customers’ needs. While our subsidiaries have already established successful relationships with their customers, customers needs may change or vary. This may affect the ability of our subsidiaries’ present or proposed products to address all of their customers’ ultimate technology needs in an economically feasible manner. Our success depends upon their ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changes in the heating manufacturing industry. If they fail to identify and respond to these changes, their sales could decline and they could lose clients and market share, any of which could materially harm our business. Furthermore, if they are unable to continue to meet their clients’ needs with their current product lines, they may be required to redesign existing and planned products, acquire new manufacturing equipment or incur other significant expenses. Our subsidiaries may not be able to keep pace with rapid technological changes and competition in their industry, which could adversely impact our business, revenues and operations. Our subsidiaries believe they have hired or engaged personnel and outside consultants who have the experience and ability necessary to help them keep pace with advances in technology in the heating manufacturing industry. While they continue to seek out and develop “next generation” technology through their research and development efforts, there is no guarantee that they will be able to keep pace with technological developments and market demands in an evolving industry and market. In addition, our subsidiaries’ industry is highly competitive. Although we believe they have developed strategic relationships that will assist them to best penetrate the domestic China market, they face competition from other manufacturers of products similar to their products. Some of our competitors’ advantages over our subsidiaries in the areas of products, marketing and services include: substantially greater revenues and financial resources; stronger brand names and consumer recognition; the capacity to leverage marketing expenditures across a broader portfolio of products; pre-existing relationships with potential customers; more resources to make acquisitions; lower labor and development costs; and broader geographic presence. Furthermore, our subsidiaries may experience delays in bringing new products to market, due to design, manufacturing or distribution problems. Any such delays could adversely affect their ability to compete effectively and may adversely affect their relationship with their customers. If our subsidiaries are unable to keep pace with the rapid technological changes and competition in their industry and market, our business, revenues and operations could be adversely impacted. Our subsidiaries products may contain defects, which if subject to product liability and warranty claims, could adversely affect our subsidiaries reputation and cause us to incur significant costs. Due to the high pressures and temperatures at which many of our subsidiaries’ products are used, and the fact that some of their products are relied upon by customers or end users in their facilities or operations, or are manufactured for relatively broad consumer use, our subsidiaries face an inherent risk of exposure to claims in the event that the failure, use or misuse of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury, property damage or economic loss. We believe our subsidiaries meet or exceed existing professional specification standards recognized or required in the industries in which they operate. Despite testing, however, defects may be found in our subsidiaries’ existing or new products. If they deliver products with defects, their credibility and the market acceptance and sales of their products could be harmed. Any such defects could cause them to undertake a product recall program, which would result in significant return and exchange costs, re-engineering costs, divert the attention of their engineering personnel from product development efforts and cause significant problems with customer relations and business reputation. Our subsidiaries have been subject to product liability and warranty claims in the past, none of which has had a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations, and our subsidiaries may be subject to claims in the future. Although our subsidiaries currently maintain product liability coverage, which our subsidiaries believe is adequate for the continued operation of their business, such insurance may become difficult to obtain or may become unobtainable in the future on terms acceptable to our subsidiaries and may not cover warranty claims. A successful product liability claim or series of claims against our subsidiaries, including one or more consumer claims purporting to constitute class actions, in excess of our subsidiaries insurance coverage or a significant warranty claim or series of claims against our subsidiaries could materially decrease our liquidity and impair our financial condition. 16 Table of Contents Our subsidiaries could be subject to environmental liabilities in China, which could result in them incurring significant remediation costs, fines and loss of our business license. As is the case with manufacturers of similar products, our subsidiaries use certain hazardous substances in our operations in China. Currently, their business is subject to the Environmental Protection Law of the PRC as well as other national and local laws in China regarding pollutant discharge, air, water and noise pollution. Although we believe our subsidiaries are in compliance in all material respects with the applicable PRC environmental laws and regulations, if it is determined that they are in violation of these regulations, they could be subject to financial penalties as well as the loss of their business license. Furthermore, if the national or local government in China adopts more stringent environmental regulations, our subsidiaries may incur significant costs in complying with such regulations. If our subsidiaries fail to comply with present or future environmental regulations, they may be required to pay substantial fines and remediation costs, suspend production or cease operations and may be subject to adverse publicity. Our subsidiaries currently do not incur any material costs in connection with their compliance with the applicable PRC environmental laws. However, the risk of environmental liability and charges associated with maintaining compliance with PRC environmental laws is inherent in the nature of their business, and there is no assurance that material environmental liabilities and compliance charges will not arise in the future. Our subsidiaries insurance coverage in China may be inadequate to protect them from potential losses. The insurance industry in China is in its early stage of development and the business interruption insurance and the product liability insurance available currently in China offers limited coverage compared to that offered in many other countries, especially in the U.S. Any business disruption or natural disaster could result in substantial costs and a diversion of resources, which would have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our subsidiaries in China, particularly their production facilities in Shenyang, involve risks and hazards that could result in damage to, or destruction of, property and machinery, personal injury, business interruption and possible legal liability. Our subsidiaries currently carry property and casualty insurance for their buildings, plant and equipment, but we cannot assure you that the coverage will be adequate to fully replace damage to any of the foregoing. Should any natural catastrophes such as earthquakes, floods or any acts of terrorism occur where our subsidiaries’ primary operations are located and most of their employees are based, or elsewhere, our subsidiaries might suffer not only significant property damage, but also loss of revenues due to interruptions in their business operations. Our subsidiaries are unable to acquire product liability insurance in China because it is not currently available for their product lines, but our German subsidiary does maintain product liability coverage in that we believe is adequate for the continued operation of our business in Europe, but such insurance may become difficult to obtain or may become unobtainable in the future on terms acceptable to us and may not cover warranty claims. A successful product liability claim or series of claims against any of our subsidiaries, including one or more consumer claims purporting to constitute class actions, in excess of our subsidiaries’ insurance coverage or a significant warranty claim or series of claims against us could materially decrease our liquidity and impair our financial condition. The occurrence of a significant event for which our subsidiaries are not fully insured or indemnified, or the failure of a party to meet its underwriting or indemnification obligations, could materially and adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Moreover, no assurance can be given that our subsidiaries will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates they consider reasonable. If our subsidiaries lose their key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified personnel, the quality of their services may decline and our business may be adversely impacted. Our subsidiaries rely heavily on the expertise, experience and continued services of their management, including our former Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Jun Wang, who is now solely general manager of our subsidiaries in China. Loss of his services could adversely affect our subsidiaries ability to achieve their business objectives. Mr. Wang is a key factor in our subsidiaries success at developing and introducing new products and establishing new customer relationships because of his industry experience and reputation. The continued development of our subsidiaries’ business depends upon his continued employment. Our subsidiary Taiyu has entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Wang, which contains provisions prohibiting competition with our subsidiaries should he leave their employ. We believe our future success will depend upon our subsidiaries’ ability to retain Mr. Wang and other key employees and their ability to attract and retain other skilled personnel. The rapid growth of the economy in China has caused intense competition for qualified personnel. We cannot guarantee that any employee will remain employed by our subsidiaries for any period of time or that they will be able to attract, train or retain qualified personnel in the future. Such loss of personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and company. Qualified employees periodically are in great demand and may be unavailable in the time frame required to satisfy our subsidiaries’ customers’ requirements. There is no assurance our subsidiaries will be able to attract and retain sufficient numbers of highly skilled employees in the future. The loss of personnel or our subsidiaries inability to hire or retain sufficient personnel at competitive rates could impair the growth of their business. 17 Table of Contents Our subsidiaries’ bank accounts in China are not insured or protected against loss, and the failure of any bank in which our subsidiaries deposit funds could affect their ability to continue in business. Our subsidiaries maintain their cash in China with various national banks in China. These cash accounts are not insured or otherwise protected against loss. Should any bank holding our cash deposits become insolvent, or if our subsidiaries are otherwise unable to withdraw funds, they would lose the cash on deposit with that particular bank. Depending upon the amount of cash our subsidiaries maintain in a bank that fails, their inability to have access to such cash deposits could impair their operations, and, if they are not able to access funds to pay their suppliers, employees and other creditors, they may be unable to continue in business. We may need additional capital to execute our business plan and fund operations and may not be able to obtain such capital on acceptable terms or at all. In connection with the ongoing development and expansion of our business, we may incur significant expenses. We believe that we can increase our sales and net income by implementing a growth strategy that focuses on increasing sales of our subsidiaries’ products in China by targeting high growth end markets and expanding sales of heat pumps in China and Europe. Management anticipates that our existing capital resources and proceeds from amounts borrowed under our Credit Agreement with Northtech will satisfy the liquidity requirements of our business until the middle of 2014. However, if available funds are not sufficient to meet our current operating expenses, our plans include pursuing alternative financing arrangements, including bank loans based on our good credit rating or funds raised through offerings of our equity or debt, if and when we determine such offerings are required. Our ability to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms or at all is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: · investors’ perceptions of, and demand for, companies in our industry; · investors’ perceptions of, and demand for, companies operating in China; · conditions of the U.S. and other capital markets in which we may seek to raise funds; · our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows; · governmental regulation of foreign investment in companies in particular countries; · economic, political and other conditions in the U.S., China and other countries; and · governmental policies relating to foreign currency borrowings. There is no assurance we will be successful in locating a suitable financing transaction in a timely fashion or at all. In addition, there is no assurance we will obtain the capital we require by any other means. Future financings through equity investments are likely to be dilutive to our existing shareholders. Also, the terms of securities we may issue in future capital transactions may be more favorable for our new investors. Newly-issued securities may include preferences or superior voting rights, be combined with the issuance of warrants or other derivative securities, or be the issuances of incentive awards under equity employee incentive plans, which may have additional dilutive effects. Furthermore, we may incur substantial costs in pursuing future capital and financing, including investment banking fees, legal fees, accounting fees, printing and distribution expenses and other costs. We may also be required to recognize non-cash expenses in connection with certain securities we may issue, such as convertible notes and warrants, which will adversely impact our financial condition. If we cannot raise additional funds on favorable terms or at all, we may not be able to carry out all or parts of our strategy to maintain our growth and competitiveness or to fund our subsidiaries’ operations. If the amount of capital we are able to raise from financing activities, together with our revenues from operations, is not sufficient to satisfy our capital needs, even to the extent that we reduce our operations accordingly, we may be required to cease operations. Our subsidiaries may not be able to protect their technology and other proprietary rights adequately, which could adversely affect their competitive position and reduce the value of their products and brands, and litigation to protect their intellectual property rights may be costly. Our subsidiaries attempt to strengthen and differentiate their product lines by developing new and innovative product designs and functionality. As a result, their patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important assets to their business. Our success will depend in part on our subsidiaries ability to obtain and protect their products, methods, processes and other technologies, to preserve their trade secrets and to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties in China and abroad. Despite our subsidiaries’ efforts to preserve their intellectual property rights, any of the following occurrences may reduce the value of their intellectual property: 18 Table of Contents · Issued patents and trademarks may not provide our subsidiaries with any competitive advantages; · Our subsidiaries’ efforts to protect their proprietary rights may not be effective in preventing misappropriation of their intellectual property; · Our subsidiaries’ efforts may not prevent the development and design by others of products or technologies similar to or competitive with, or superior to those they develop; or · Another party may obtain a blocking patent and our subsidiaries would need to either obtain a license or design around the patent in order to continue to offer the contested feature or service in their products. Effective protection of our subsidiaries intellectual property rights may be unavailable or limited in China or certain other countries. Policing the unauthorized use of our subsidiaries proprietary technology can be difficult and expensive. Litigation might be necessary to protect their intellectual property rights, which may be costly and may divert management’s attention away from their core business. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that litigation would result in an outcome favorable to our subsidiaries. If our subsidiaries are unable to protect their proprietary rights adequately, it would have a negative impact on our operations. Our subsidiaries may be subject to claims that we have infringed the proprietary rights of others, which could require them to obtain a license or change their designs. Although our subsidiaries do not believe any of their products infringe upon the proprietary rights of others, there is no assurance that infringement or invalidity claims, or claims for indemnification resulting from infringement claims, will not be asserted or prosecuted against them or that any such assertions or prosecutions will not have a material adverse effect on their business. Regardless of whether any such claims are valid or can be asserted successfully, defending against such claims could cause our subsidiaries to incur significant costs and could divert resources away from other activities. In addition, assertion of infringement claims could result in injunctions that prevent our subsidiaries from distributing their products. If any claims or actions are asserted against them, our subsidiaries may seek to obtain a license to the intellectual property rights that are in dispute. Such a license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all, which could force our subsidiaries to change their designs. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately. Any inability to report and file our financial results accurately and timely could harm our business and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. We are required to establish and maintain internal controls over financial reporting, disclosure controls and procedures and to comply with other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the rules promulgated by the SEC. Our management, including our President and Acting Chief Accountant, cannot guarantee our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all possible errors. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no system of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the possibility that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and subject to simple error or mistake. Furthermore, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be detected. Our inability or failure to report and file our financial results accurately and timely could harm our business and the trading price of our common stock. Our management carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2013, because of one identified material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our financial statements will not be prevented, or detected and corrected on a timely basis. The material weakness identified relates to the lack of sufficient internal accounting personnel with appropriate levels of knowledge, experience and training in generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S., or U.S. GAAP, for the preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Furthermore, our management concluded that, as of December 31, 2013 our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective because of this identified material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. See “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.” Our Board of Directors and management are evaluating remediation measures that we will undertake to address this material weakness and will continue this evaluation in order to implement a comprehensive remediation plan. Until such time as we hire qualified accounting staff or train our current accounting staff with the requisite U.S. GAAP experience, however, it is unlikely we will be able to remediate this material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. 19 Table of Contents Our accounting personnel who are primarily responsible for the preparation and supervision of the preparation of our financial statements under U.S. GAAP have limited relevant education and training in U.S. GAAP and SEC rules and regulations pertaining to financial reporting, which could impact our ability to prepare our financial statements and convert our books and records to U.S. GAAP. Our operations principally are in China and we have maintained our books and records in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the PRC, or PRC GAAP. Our accounting personnel in the PRC who have the primary responsibilities of preparing and supervising the preparation of financial statements under U.S. GAAP have limited relevant education and training in U.S. GAAP and related SEC rules and regulations. As such, they may be unable to identify potential accounting and disclosure issues that may arise upon the conversion of our books and records from PRC GAAP to U.S. GAAP, which could affect our ability to prepare our financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We have taken steps to ensure that our financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, including our hiring of a U.S. accounting firm to work with our PRC accounting personnel and management to convert our books and records to U.S. GAAP and prepare our financial statements. However, the measures we have taken may not be sufficient to mitigate the foregoing risks associated with the limited education and training of our accounting personnel in U.S. GAAP and related SEC rules and regulations. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Changes in China’s political and economic policies could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our subsidiaries’ products and adversely affect our business. Substantially all of our manufacturing and productive assets are located in China and a significant percentage of our revenue is derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our results of operations and prospects are subject to the economic, political and legal developments in China. While China’s economy has experienced significant growth in the past twenty years, such growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures may have a negative effect on us. For example, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected by PRC government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations. In recent years, the PRC government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform and the reduction of state ownership of productive assets, and the establishment of corporate governance in business enterprises; however, a substantial portion of productive assets in China are still owned by the PRC government. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. It also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, the control of payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, the setting of monetary policy, the control of the housing and real estate market and the provision of preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth and level of capital expenditures in China, which in turn could lead to reduced demand for our subsidiaries’ products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, changes in policies, laws and regulations or in their interpretation or the imposition of confiscatory taxation, restrictions on currency conversion, restrictions or prohibitions on dividend payments to shareholders, or devaluations of currency could cause a decline in the price of our common stock. We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in China, which could affect our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely. Historically, China has not adopted an international style of management or financial reporting concepts and practices, nor modern banking, computer and other control systems. We may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to work in China. As a result of these factors, we may experience difficulty in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices for our subsidiaries in China that meet international standards. If relations between the U.S. and China worsen, our business could be adversely affected and investors may be unwilling to hold or buy our stock and our stock price may decrease. At various times during recent years, the U.S. and China have had significant disagreements over political and economic issues. Controversies may arise in the future between these two countries. Any political or trade controversies between the U.S. and China, whether or not directly related to our business, could reduce the price of our common stock. 20 Table of Contents The nature and application of many laws of China create an uncertain environment for business operations and they could have a negative effect on our subsidiaries. The legal system in China is a civil law system. Unlike the common law system, the civil law system is based on written statutes in which decided legal cases have little value as precedents. In 1979, China began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and has since introduced many laws and regulations to provide general guidance on economic and business practices in China and to regulate foreign investment. Progress has been made in the promulgation of laws and regulations dealing with economic and commercial matters, but these recently enacted laws and regulations may not cover all aspects of business activities in China sufficiently. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to our subsidiaries. In addition, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, there may be certain instances when we may not be aware of our subsidiaries violation of these policies and rules until some time after such violation. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. The PRC government has enacted some laws and regulations dealing with matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. Our subsidiaries’ ability to enforce commercial claims or to resolve commercial disputes under these laws and regulations is unpredictable, however, because the implementation, interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations is limited and, given their relative newness, involve uncertainties. For example, contracts governed by PRC law tend to contain less detail than those under U.S. law and generally are not as comprehensive in defining the rights and obligations of the contracting parties. Consequently, contracts in China are more vulnerable to disputes and legal challenges than those in the U.S. In addition, contract interpretation and enforcement in China is not as developed as in the U.S., and the result of any contract dispute is subject to significant uncertainties. Our subsidiaries currently are not subject to any contract dispute, but we cannot assure you that our subsidiaries will not be subject to future contract disputes with our suppliers, franchisees and other customers under contracts governed by PRC law, and if such disputes arise, we cannot assure you that our subsidiaries will prevail. Furthermore, the political, governmental and judicial systems in China sometimes are impacted by corruption. There is no assurance our subsidiaries will be able to obtain recourse in any legal disputes with the suppliers, customers or other parties with whom they conduct business, if desired, through China’s developing and sometimes corrupt judicial systems. Any rights our subsidiaries may have under PRC law to specific performance or to seek an injunction are severely limited, and without a means of recourse by virtue of the PRC legal system, our subsidiaries may be unable to prevent these situations from occurring. The occurrence of any such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. It will be extremely difficult to acquire jurisdiction and enforce liabilities against our directors and assets based in China. As several of our directors are citizens of the PRC, it may be difficult, if not impossible, to acquire jurisdiction over these persons in the event a lawsuit is initiated against us or our officers and directors by a shareholder or group of shareholders in the U.S. Also, because many of our operating subsidiaries and assets are located in China, it may be extremely difficult or impossible for individuals to access those assets to enforce judgments rendered against us or our directors or executive offices by U.S. courts. In addition, the courts in China may not permit the enforcement of judgments arising out of U.S. federal and state corporate, securities or similar laws. Accordingly, U.S. investors may not be able to enforce judgments against us for violation of U.S. securities laws. Fluctuation of the Renminbi and Euro may affect our financial condition and the value of our securities. Although we use the USD for financial reporting purposes, transactions effected by our subsidiaries in China are denominated in RMB and those by our subsidiary in Germany are denominated in EUR. The value of the RMB and EUR fluctuates and are subject to changes in the political and economic conditions in China and Europe, respectively. In particular, from June 2008 to June 2010, the RMB was pegged to the USD, but it has since been managed more flexibly. Because the PBOC regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate, the RMB may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the USD in the medium to long term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future the PRC authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the RMB exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign exchange market. Future movements in the exchange rate of the RMB could adversely affect our financial condition as substantially all of our operations and sales are transacted in RMB and we may suffer financial losses when transferring money raised outside of China into the country or paying vendors for services performed outside of China. Historically, we have not engaged in hedging activities to mitigate this risk of fluctuating exchange rates and have no current intention of doing so. Moreover, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the USD and RMB will affect our financial results reported in USD terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business, financial condition or results of operations. The value of our common stock likewise will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between the USD and RMB, and between those currencies and other currencies in which our sales may be denominated. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we may issue in the future that will be exchanged into USD and earnings from, and the value of, any USD-denominated investments we make in the future. For example, if we need to convert USD into RMB for our operational needs and the RMB appreciates against the USD at that time, our financial position, our business and the price of our common stock may be harmed. Conversely, if we decide to convert our RMB into USD for the purpose of declaring dividends on our common stock or for other business purposes and the USD appreciates against the RMB, the USD equivalent of our earnings from our subsidiaries in China would be reduced. 21 Table of Contents PRC regulations relating to mergers, offshore companies and PRC shareholders, if applied to us, may limit our ability to operate our business as we see fit. PRC regulations govern the process by which we may participate in an acquisition of assets or equity interests and may make loans and direct investments to our subsidiaries in China. Depending on the structure of the transaction, these regulations require involved parties to make a series of applications and supplemental applications to various government agencies. In some instances, the application process may require the presentation of economic data concerning a transaction, including appraisals of the target business and evaluations of the acquirer, which are designed to allow the government to assess the transaction. Government approvals will have expiration dates by which a transaction must be completed and reported to the government agencies. Compliance with the new regulations is likely to be more time consuming and expensive than in the past and the government can now exert more control over the combination of two businesses. Accordingly, due to PRC regulations, our ability to engage in business combination transactions in China through our PRC subsidiaries has become significantly more complicated, time consuming and expensive, and we may not be able to negotiate transactions that are acceptable to us or sufficiently protective of our interests. Furthermore, loans and capital contributions from an offshore holding company such as us to its subsidiaries in China are subject to PRC regulations and approval. For example, loans by us to our subsidiaries in China, which are foreign-invested enterprises, to finance their activities cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with the SAFE. Similarly, the PRC Ministry of Commerce, or MOFCOM, or its local counterpart must approve any capital contribution by us to our PRC subsidiaries. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future loans or capital contributions by us to our subsidiaries. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. The RMB is currently convertible under the “current account,” which includes dividends, trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account,” which includes foreign direct investment and loans. Currently, our subsidiaries in China may purchase foreign currencies for settlement of current account transactions, including payments of dividends to us, without the approval of the SAFE. However, the relevant PRC government authorities may limit or eliminate their ability to purchase foreign currencies in the future. Since a significant amount of our future revenues will be denominated in RMB, any existing and future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize revenues generated in RMB to fund our business activities outside China that are denominated in foreign currencies. On August 29, 2008, the SAFE promulgated Circular 142, the Notice on Perfecting Practices Concerning Foreign Exchange Settlement Regarding the Capital Contribution by Foreign-invested Enterprises, to regulate the conversion by foreign-invested enterprises, or FIEs, of foreign currency into RMB by restricting how the converted RMB may be used. Circular 142 requires that RMB converted from the foreign currency-dominated capital of a FIE may only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by the applicable government authority and may not be used for equity investments within the PRC unless specifically provided for otherwise. In addition, the SAFE strengthened its oversight over the flow and use of RMB funds converted from the foreign currency-dominated capital of a FIE. The use of such RMB may not be changed without approval from the SAFE, and may not be used to repay RMB loans if the proceeds of such loans have not yet been used. These limitations could affect the ability of our subsidiaries in China to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing. If the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or CSRC, or another PRC regulatory agency determines that its approval is required in connection with our public offerings, we may become subject to penalties. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, including the CSRC, promulgated the Regulation on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Companies by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Regulations, which became effective on September 8, 2006. The M&A Regulations, among other things, have certain provisions that require offshore special purpose vehicles, or SPVs, formed for the purpose of acquiring PRC domestic companies and controlled by PRC individuals, to obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to listing their securities on an overseas stock exchange. We believe, based on the opinion of our PRC legal counsel, the Beijing Rondos Law Firm, that while the CSRC generally has jurisdiction over overseas listings of SPVs like us, CSRC’s approval is not required for the offerings of our securities because our current corporate structure was established before the new regulation became effective. However, there remains some uncertainty as to how this regulation will be interpreted or implemented in the context of an overseas offering. If the CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency subsequently determines that its approval is required for our public offerings, we may face sanctions by the CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency. If this happens, these regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, delay or restrict the repatriation of the proceeds from our public offerings into the PRC, restrict or prohibit payment or remittance of dividends by our PRC subsidiaries to us or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our ordinary shares. 22 Table of Contents We operate in the PRC through our operating entities whose foreign-investment status has been approved by the local offices of MOFCOM. If MOFCOM subsequently determines that such approval procedures have not been completely satisfied for our foreign-invested enterprises, we may lose the WFOE status of certain of our subsidiaries, which could negatively impact our business in China. Our operating entities in the PRC have received approval from their respective local offices of MOFCOM as WFOEs and foreign-invested joint ventures. We believe we have satisfied all MOFCOM approval procedures for having obtained such status, but there may be conditions subsequent to complete and maintain such status. In particular, we believe that our acquisition of Taiyu, a privately held Sino-foreign joint venture company, in 2008 was not subject to the 2006 M&A Regulations but instead the 1997 Provisions on Changes in Equity Interest of Foreign Investment Enterprises, which do not require the approval of MOFCOM’s central office in connection with the acquisition of interests in a foreign-invested entity operating in an industry not restricted or prohibited under PRC law. The meaning of many of the provisions of the M&A Regulations is still unclear, however, and PRC regulators have wide latitude in the enforcement of these and other relevant regulations. Consequently, the MOFCOM approval procedures or interpretations of its approval procedures may be different from our understanding or may change. If MOFCOM subsequently determines that we should have obtained the approval of MOFCOM’s central office for our investments in any or all of our PRC foreign-invested subsidiaries, we may need to apply for a remedial approval or waiver of such approval requirements, and may be subject to certain administrative punishments or other sanctions from PRC regulatory agencies. As a result, if we lose the WFOE status of any of our PRC operating subsidiaries for any reason, there may be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our shares of common stock. PRC regulations relating to the registration requirements for PRC resident shareholders owning shares in offshore companies may subject our PRC resident shareholders to personal liability and limit our ability to acquire companies in China or to inject capital into our operating subsidiaries in China, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business. The SAFE issued a public notice in October 2005, Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Control on Domestic Residents’ Corporate Financing and Roundtrip Investment through Offshore Special Purpose Vehicles, which we refer to as Circular 75, requiring PRC residents, including both legal persons and natural persons, to register with the competent local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China, referred to as an “offshore special purpose company,” for the purpose of acquiring any assets of or equity interest in PRC companies and raising funds from overseas. In addition, any PRC resident who is the shareholder of an offshore special purpose company is required to amend his or her SAFE registration with the local SAFE branch, with respect to that offshore special purpose company in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, merger, division, equity investment or creation of any security interest over any assets located in China. If any PRC resident who is the shareholder of an offshore special purpose company fails to comply with the SAFE registration requirements, the PRC subsidiaries of the offshore special purpose company may be prohibited from distributing their profits and proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to their offshore parent company and the offshore parent company may be restricted in its ability to contribute additional capital into its PRC subsidiaries. Moreover, failure to comply with the SAFE registration requirements could result in liabilities under PRC laws for evasion of foreign exchange restrictions. Although we believe that our PRC subsidiaries are in compliance with these regulations, should these regulations or the interpretation of them by course or regulatory agencies change, we may not be able to pay dividends outside of China. We do not believe that we have incurred a liability because of noncompliance with Circular 75 under SAFE registration procedures, however. Accordingly, we cannot predict fully how Circular 75 will affect our business operations or future strategies because of ongoing uncertainty over how Circular 75 is interpreted and implemented, and how or whether SAFE will apply it to us. We have requested our PRC resident beneficial owners, including our former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, to make the necessary applications, filings and amendments as required under SAFE regulations in connection with their equity interests in us and our acquisitions of equity interests in our PRC subsidiaries. We cannot provide any assurances that all of our present or prospective direct or indirect PRC resident beneficial owners have or will comply fully with all applicable registrations or required approvals. The failure or inability of our PRC resident beneficial owners to comply with the applicable SAFE registration requirements may subject these beneficial owners or us to fines, legal sanctions and restrictions described above. On March 28, 2007, SAFE promulgated the Operating Procedures for Foreign Exchange Administration of Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Ownership Plans and Stock Option Plans of Offshore Listed Companies, or Circular 78. Under Circular 78, PRC citizens granted stock options by an offshore listed company are required, through an agent in China or a PRC subsidiary of the offshore listed company, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures, including applications for foreign exchange purchase quotas and opening special bank accounts. Failure to comply with these regulations may subject us or our PRC employees that receive stock option grants from us to fines and legal sanctions imposed by SAFE or other PRC government authorities and may prevent us from further granting stock options under our equity incentive plans to our PRC-citizen employees in China. Such events could adversely affect our business operations. 23 Table of Contents PRC labor laws may adversely affect our results of operations. On June 29, 2007, the PRC government promulgated the Labor Contract Law of the PRC, effective on January 1, 2008, to govern the establishment of employment relationships between employers and employees, and the conclusion, performance, termination of and the amendment to employment contracts. The Labor Contract Law imposes greater liabilities on employers and significantly affects the cost of an employer’s decision to reduce its workforce. Further, it requires that certain terminations be based upon seniority and not merit. In the event our subsidiaries decide to significantly change or decrease their workforce in China, the Labor Contract Law could adversely affect their ability to effect such changes in a manner that is most advantageous to our business or in a timely and cost-effective manner, thus materially and adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. Under the Enterprise Income Tax Law, we may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of China. Such classification will likely result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC resident shareholders. China passed the Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, and its implementing rules, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008. Under the EIT Law, an enterprise established outside of China with “de facto management bodies” within China is considered a “resident enterprise,” meaning that it must be treated as a PRC domestic enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes. The implementing rules of the EIT Law define de facto management as “substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise. On April 22, 2009, the PRC State Administration of Taxation, or the SAT, issued the Notice Concerning Relevant Issues Regarding Cognizance of Chinese Investment Controlled Enterprises Incorporated Offshore as Resident Enterprises pursuant to Criteria of de facto Management Bodies, or the Notice, further interpreting the application of the EIT Law and its implementation regarding non-PRC enterprise or group controlled offshore entities. Pursuant to the Notice, an enterprise incorporated in an off-shore jurisdiction and controlled by a PRC enterprise or group will be classified as a “non-domestically incorporated resident enterprise” if: (i) its senior management in charge of daily operations reside or perform their duties mainly in China; (ii) its financial or personnel decisions are made or approved by bodies or persons in China; (iii) its substantial assets and properties, accounting books, corporate chops, board and shareholder minutes are kept in China; and (iv) at least half of its directors with voting rights or senior management often reside in China. A “resident enterprise” would be subject to an enterprise income tax rate of 25% on its worldwide income and must pay a withholding tax at a rate of 10% when paying dividends to its non-PRC shareholders. However, detailed measures on imposition of tax from non-domestically incorporated resident enterprises are not yet available. Therefore, it is unclear how tax authorities will determine tax residency based on the facts of each case. We may be deemed to be a “resident enterprise” by PRC tax authorities. If the PRC tax authorities determine that we are a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we may be subject to the enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. In our case, this would mean that income such as interest on financing proceeds and non-China source income would be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at a rate of 25%. Second, although under the EIT Law and its implementing rules dividends paid to us from our PRC subsidiaries would qualify as “tax-exempt income,” we cannot guarantee that such dividends will not be subject to a 10% withholding tax, as the PRC foreign exchange control authorities, which enforce the withholding tax, have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as “resident enterprises” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. Finally, it is possible that future guidance issued with respect to the new “resident enterprise” classification could result in a situation in which a 10% withholding tax is imposed on dividends we pay to our non-PRC shareholders and with respect to gains derived by our non-PRC shareholders from transferring our shares. If we were treated as a “resident enterprise” by PRC tax authorities, we would be subject to taxation in both the U.S. and China, and our PRC tax may not be creditable against our U.S. tax. Dividends distributed from our PRC subsidiaries to our non-PRC resident shareholders would be subject to U.S. and PRC withholding taxes. We are a Nevada holding company and substantially all of our income is derived from dividends we receive from our subsidiaries, including those in China. Pretax earnings of a foreign subsidiary are subject to U.S. taxation when effectively repatriated. We currently consider the undistributed earnings of our PRC subsidiaries to be invested indefinitely and, accordingly, record no deferred U.S. tax expense on such earnings. If our PRC subsidiaries were to distribute dividends to us, the dividends would be subject to U.S. and PRC withholding taxes. Before the EIT Law came into effect on January 1, 2008, dividends paid to foreign investors by FIEs, such as dividends paid to us by our subsidiaries in China, were exempt from PRC withholding tax. Pursuant to the EIT Law, dividends generated after January 1, 2008, and distributed to us by our subsidiaries in China are subject to withholding tax at a rate of 5%, provided that we are determined by the relevant PRC tax authorities to be a “non-resident enterprise” under the EIT Law and hold at least 25% of the equity interest of our subsidiaries. If we are determined to be a “resident enterprise,” we cannot guarantee that such dividends will not be subject to a 10% withholding tax, as the PRC foreign exchange control authorities, which enforce the withholding tax, have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as “resident enterprises” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. 24 Table of Contents The SAT promulgated “Notice on How to Understand and Determine the Beneficial Owners in Tax Agreement” on October 27, 2009, or SAT Circular 601, which provides guidance for determining whether a resident of a contracting state is the “beneficial owner” of an item of income under China’s tax treaties and tax arrangements. According to SAT Circular 601, a beneficial owner generally must be engaged in substantive business activities. An agent or conduit company will not be regarded as a beneficial owner and, therefore, will not qualify for treaty benefits. The agent or conduit company normally refers to a company that is registered in a jurisdiction other than China and merely meets the minimum legal requirements on organizational form and is not engaged in substantive operational activities for manufacturing, distribution or management. It is still unclear how SAT Circular 601 is implemented by SAT or its local counterparts in practice and whether we could be recognized as a “beneficial owner.” If we are deemed a non-resident enterprise but not qualified as a beneficial owner, we will not be entitled to a reduced 5% withholding tax and the 10% withholding tax would be imposed on any dividend income received from our subsidiaries in China. As a result, our net income would be reduced and our operating results would be adversely affected. Tax laws and regulations in China are subject to revision, some of which may adversely affect our profitability, and the termination of certain preferential tax treatment for which our subsidiaries are eligible in China may adversely affect our net income. The PRC corporate tax regime continues to undergo revision. Tax benefits that our subsidiaries presently enjoy may not be available to us in the wake of these changes, and our subsidiaries could incur tax obligations to the PRC government that are significantly higher than currently anticipated. These increased tax obligations could negatively affect our financial condition and our revenues, gross margins, profitability and results of operations may be adversely affected as a result. Furthermore, certain tax exemptions that certain of our subsidiaries presently enjoy in China are scheduled to expire after 2013. Taiyu and SanDeKe are governed by the Income Tax Law of the PRC concerning privately run enterprises, which are generally subject to tax at a statutory rate of 25% on income reported in the statutory financial statements after appropriate tax adjustments. Taiyu has been classified as a high-tech enterprise eligible for certain tax benefits, including a preferential enterprise income tax rate of 15% through 2013. SanDeKe was entitled to a 50% discount on its income tax rate from 2010 through 2012, resulting in an income tax rate of 13% and 12% for 2012 and 2011, respectively. SanDeKe’s income tax rate increased to 25% in 2013. We plan to apply for renewal of these preferential tax benefits for Taiyu after 2013 and will apply in 2014. If these tax benefits enjoyed by Taiyu expire without renewal, however, our income tax expenses will increase, which will reduce our net income. Our compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act may put our subsidiaries at a competitive disadvantage, while our failure to comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act may result in substantial penalties. We are required to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, which prohibits U.S. companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Although we inform our subsidiaries’ personnel that such practices are illegal, we cannot assure you that our subsidiaries’ employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our subsidiaries’ employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties. Non-U.S. companies, including some of our subsidiaries’ competitors, are not subject to the provisions of the FCPA. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time to time in mainland China. If our subsidiaries’ competitors engage in these practices, they may receive preferential treatment from personnel of some companies, giving our subsidiaries’ competitors an advantage in securing business or from government officials who might give them priority in obtaining new licenses, which would put our subsidiaries at a disadvantage. Risks Related to Our Securities The application of the “penny stock” rules could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and increase your transaction costs to sell those shares. Our common stock may be subject to the “penny stock” rules adopted under Section 15(g) of the Exchange Act. The penny stock rules apply to issuers whose common stock does not trade on a national securities exchange and trades at less than $5.00 per share, or that have a tangible net worth of less than $5,000,000 ($2,000,000 if the company has been operating for three or more years). The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from those rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document prepared by the SEC that contains the following information: · a description of the nature and level of risk in the market for penny stocks in both public offerings and secondary trading; · a description of the broker’s or dealer’s duties to the customer and of the rights and remedies available to the customer with respect to violation to such duties or other requirements of securities laws; 25 Table of Contents · a brief, clear, narrative description of a dealer market, including “bid” and “ask” prices for penny stocks and the significance of the spread between the “bid” and “ask” prices; · a toll-free telephone number for inquiries on disciplinary actions; · definitions of any significant terms in the disclosure document or in the conduct of trading in penny stocks; and · such other information and is in such form (including language, type, size and format), as the SEC shall require by rule or regulation. Prior to effecting any transaction in a penny stock, the broker-dealer also must provide the customer with the following information: · bid and offer quotations for the penny stock; · compensation of the broker-dealer and our salesperson in the transaction; · number of shares to which such bid and ask prices apply, or other comparable information relating to the depth and liquidity of the market for such stock; and · monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. The penny stock rules further require that, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from those rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written acknowledgment of the receipt of a risk disclosure statement, a written agreement to transactions involving penny stocks and a signed and dated copy of a written suitability statement. Due to the requirements of the penny stock rules, many broker-dealers have decided not to trade penny stocks. As a result, the number of broker-dealers willing to act as market makers in such securities is limited. If we remain subject to the penny stock rules for any significant period, it could have an adverse effect on the market, if any, for our securities. Moreover, if our securities are subject to the penny stock rules, investors will find it more difficult to dispose of our securities. The market price for our common stock may be volatile, which could make it more difficult or impossible for you to sell our common stock for a positive return on your investment. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, our quarterly operating results or the operating results of other companies in our industry, announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, new products, product improvements, commercial relationships, intellectual property, legal, regulatory or other business developments and changes in financial estimates or recommendations by stock market analysts regarding us or our competitors. In addition, the stock market in general, and in particular the market for companies with substantial operations based in China, that became public by means of a reverse acquisition with a public shell company or that recently effected a reverse stock split, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated or disproportionate to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on our stock price, regardless of our operating results. Further, the market for our common stock is limited and we cannot assure you that a larger market will ever be developed or maintained. Market fluctuations and volatility, as well as general economic, market and political conditions, could reduce our market price. As a result, these factors may make it more difficult or impossible for you to sell our common stock for a positive return on your investment. Our quarterly results may be volatile, which could materially affect the per share price of our common stock. Our operating results have varied on a quarterly basis during our operating history and are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future. Many factors, including the risk factors incorporated by reference herein, could cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly in the future. Many of these factors are outside of our control. Accordingly, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful. Investors should not rely on the results of one quarter as an indication of our future performance. If our results of operations in any quarter do not meet analysts’ expectations, our stock price could materially decrease. 26 Table of Contents Future sales of our stock could depress the market price of our common stock and cause our stock price to decline. Future sales of shares of our common stock could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our stock. If our significant stockholders sell a large number of shares, or if we issue a large number of shares, the market price of our common stock could significantly decline. Moreover, the perception in the public market that our significant stockholders might sell shares of our common stock could depress the market for our shares. If such shareholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, such sales could create a circumstance commonly referred to as an “overhang,” in anticipation of which the market price of our common stock could fall. The existence of an overhang, whether or not sales have occurred or are occurring, also could make it more difficult for us to raise additional financing through the sale of equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price we deem reasonable or appropriate. We may issue additional shares of our capital stock or debt securities to raise capital or complete acquisitions, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders. Our Articles of Incorporation authorize the issuance of up to 75,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share. As of April 4, 2014, there were 68,416,601 authorized and unissued shares of our common stock available for future issuance, based on 6,583,399 shares of our common stock outstanding and our reservation of 2,400 shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding options. Although we have no commitments as of the date of this report to issue our securities, we may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock to complete a business combination, to raise capital or to repay outstanding debt obligation, including amounts we may borrow under the Credit Agreement with Northtech. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock may significantly reduce the equity interest of our existing stockholders and may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. We have not paid dividends in the past and do not expect to pay dividends in the future. Any return on investment may be limited to the value of our common stock. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends on our common stock will depend on earnings, financial condition and other business and economic factors affecting it at such time as the Board of Directors may consider relevant. Furthermore, China has currency and capital transfer regulations that require us to comply with complex regulations for the movement of capital. See “Risks Related to Our Business – We are a holding company that depends on cash flow from our wholly owned subsidiaries to meet our obligations.” Although our management believes that we are in compliance with these regulations, should these regulations or the interpretation of them by PRC courts or regulatory agencies change, we may not be able to pay dividends to our shareholders outside of China. Our management intends to follow a policy of retaining all of our earnings to finance the development and execution of our strategy and the expansion of our business. If we do not pay dividends, our common stock may be less valuable because a return on your investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. Provisions in the Nevada Revised Statutes and our Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws could make it very difficult for you to bring any legal actions against our directors or officers for violations of their fiduciary duties or could require us to pay any amounts incurred by our directors or officers in any such actions. Members of our Board of Directors and our officers will have no liability for breaches of their fiduciary duty of care as a director or officer, except in limited circumstances, pursuant to provisions in the Nevada Revised Statutes and our Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws as authorized by the Nevada Revised Statutes. Specifically, Section 78.138 of the Nevada Revised Statutes provides that a director or officer is not individually liable to the company or its shareholders or creditors for any damages as a result of any act or failure to act in his or her capacity as a director or officer unless it is proven that (1) the director’s or officer’s act or failure to act constituted a breach of his or her fiduciary duties as a director or officer and (2) his or her breach of those duties involved intentional misconduct, fraud or a knowing violation of law. This provision is intended to afford directors and officers protection against and to limit their potential liability for monetary damages resulting from suits alleging a breach of the duty of care by a director or officer. Accordingly, you may be unable to prevail in a legal action against our directors or officers even if they have breached their fiduciary duty of care. In addition, our Amended and Restated Bylaws allow us to indemnify our directors and officers from and against any and all costs, charges and expenses resulting from their acting in such capacities with us. This means that if you were able to enforce an action against our directors or officers, in all likelihood, we would be required to pay any expenses they incurred in defending the lawsuit and any judgment or settlement they otherwise would be required to pay. Accordingly, our indemnification obligations could divert needed financial resources and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not required. 27 Table of Contents 