ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSIn addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which we have made forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. There may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that we do not currently consider to be significant that may adversely affect our business, performance or financial condition in the future. Risks related to our business The metals industry is highly cyclical. Fluctuations in the availability of zinc and nickel and in levels of customer demand have historically been severe, and future changes and/or fluctuations could cause us to experience lower sales volumes, which would negatively impact our profit margins.The metals industry is highly cyclical. The length and magnitude of industry cycles have varied over time and by product but generally reflect changes in macroeconomic conditions, levels of industry capacity and availability of usable raw materials. The overall levels of demand for our products containing zinc or nickel reflect fluctuations in levels of end-user demand, which depend in large part on general macroeconomic conditions in North America and regional economic conditions in our markets. For example, many of the principal consumers of zinc metal and zinc-related products operate in industries such as transportation, construction or general manufacturing, that themselves are heavily dependent on general economic conditions, including the availability of affordable energy sources, employment levels, interest rates, consumer confidence and housing demand. These cyclical shifts in our customers’ industries tend to result in significant fluctuations in demand and pricing for our products and services. As a result, in periods of recession or low economic growth, such as the one we are currently experiencing, metals companies, including ours, have generally tended to under-perform compared to other industries. We generally have high fixed costs, so changes in industry demand that impact our production volume also can significantly impact our profit margins and our overall financial condition. Economic downturns in the national and international economies and prolonged recessions in our principal industry segments have had a negative impact on our operations and on those of our predecessor both recently and in 19Table of Contentsthe past, and a continuation or further deterioration of current economic conditions could have a negative impact on our future financial condition or results of operations.Current or future credit and financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations in several ways.Financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia have experienced extreme disruption, including, among other things, extreme volatility in securities prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. Despite improvements in credit and financial markets, there can be no assurance that there will not be further deterioration in these markets and confidence in economic conditions. These economic developments affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways. Tightening of credit in financial markets may delay or prevent our customers from securing funding adequate to honor their existing contracts with us or to enter into new contracts to purchase our products and could result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for our products. Our customers may also seek to delay deliveries of our products under existing contracts, which may postpone our ability to recognize revenue on contracts in our order backlog.Our business is also adversely affected by decreases in the general level of economic activity, including the levels of purchasing and investment in general. Strengthening of the rate of exchange for the U.S. dollar against certain major currencies may adversely affect our results or may adversely affect our domestic customers’ ability to export their product. We may also face increased risk that the counterparty or clearing agent to a hedging transaction that we enter or have entered into may default on its obligation to pay or deliver under the forward contract. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of disruptions in financial markets and sluggish economic conditions in the United States and other countries, and any resulting effects or changes, including those described above, may have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Changes in the prices of zinc and nickel will have a significant impact on our operating results and financial condition.We derive most of our revenue from the sale of zinc and nickel-based products. Changes in the market prices of zinc and nickel impact the selling prices of our products, and therefore our profitability is significantly affected by decreased zinc and nickel prices. Market prices of these metals are dependent upon supply and demand and a variety of factors over which we have little or no control, including:•U.S. and world economic conditions; •availability and relative pricing of metal substitutes; •labor costs; •energy prices; •environmental laws and regulations; •weather; •import and export restrictions; and•the effect of financial commodity speculations.Declines in the price of zinc have had a negative impact on our operations in the past, and future declines could have a negative impact on our future financial condition or results of operations. In 2002, record low zinc prices, together with high operational and legacy environmental costs and inefficiencies, caused our predecessor, HII, to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. Market conditions beyond our control determine the prices for our products, and the price for any one or more of our products may fall below our production costs, requiring us to either incur short-term losses and/or idle or permanently shut down production capacity. Market prices for zinc and nickel may decrease, and therefore our operating results may be significantly harmed.Some of our products and services are vulnerable to long-term declines in demand due to competing technologies, materials or imports, which would significantly reduce our sales.Our zinc and nickel-based products compete with other materials in many of their applications. For example, our PW zinc is used by steel fabricators in the hot dip galvanizing process, in which steel is coated with zinc in order to protect it from corrosion. Steel fabricators also can use paint, which we do not sell, for corrosion protection. Demand for our zinc as a galvanizing material may shift depending on how customers view the respective merits of hot dip galvanizing and paint. In addition, some of our customers may reduce or eliminate their usage of PW grade zinc metal because it contains a small amount of lead and may switch to other grades of zinc metal that we do not produce.Our nickel-based products are used in the stainless steel industry. Demand for our products and services may decline if demand for stainless steel lessens. Nickel-bearing stainless steel faces competition from stainless steels containing a lower level of nickel or no nickel. Domestic production of stainless steel may be negatively impacted by imports.20Table of ContentsIn addition, in periods of high zinc and nickel prices, consumers of these metals may have additional incentives to invest in the development of technologically viable substitutes for zinc and nickel-based products. Similarly, customers may develop ways to manufacture their products by using less zinc and nickel-based material than they do currently. If one or more of our customers successfully identify alternative products that can be substituted for our zinc or nickel-based products, or find ways to reduce their zinc or nickel consumption, our sales to those and other customers would likely decline.Demand for our EAF dust or nickel-bearing waste recycling operations may decline to the extent that steel mini-mill producers identify less expensive or more convenient alternatives for the disposal of their EAF dust or nickel-bearing waste or if the EPA were to no longer classify EAF dust as a listed hazardous waste. We may in the future face increased competition from other EAF dust or nickel-bearing waste recyclers, including new entrants into those recycling markets, or from landfills implementing more effective disposal techniques. Furthermore, our current recycling customers may seek to capitalize on the value of the EAF dust or nickel-bearing waste produced by their operations, or may seek to recycle their material themselves, or reduce the price they pay to us for the material they deliver to us. Any of these developments would have an adverse effect on our financial results.We may be unable to compete effectively against manufacturers of zinc and nickel products in one or more of our markets, which would limit our market share or reduce our sales and our operating profit margins.We face intense competition from regional, national and global companies in each of the markets we serve, where we face also the potential for future entrants and competitors. We compete on the basis of product quality, on-time delivery performance and price, with price representing a more important factor for our larger customers and for sales of standard zinc products than for smaller customers and customers to whom we sell value-added zinc-based products. Our competitors include other independent zinc producers as well as vertically integrated zinc companies that mine and produce zinc. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. In addition, as of December 31, 2013, we estimate that our products comprised only approximately 14% of total zinc consumption in the United States, and several of our competitors have greater market share than we do. Our competitors may also foresee the course of market development more accurately than we do, sell products at a lower price than we can and/or adapt more quickly to new technologies or industry and customer requirements. We operate in a global marketplace, and zinc metal imports now represent approximately 76% of U.S. zinc metal consumption. In the future, foreign zinc metal producers may develop new ways of packaging and transporting zinc metal that could mitigate the freight cost and other shipping limitations that we believe currently limit their ability to more fully penetrate the U.S. zinc market. If our customers in any of the end-user markets we serve were to shift their production outside the United States and Canada, then those customers would likely source zinc overseas, and, as a result, our net sales and results of operations would be adversely affected. If we cannot compete other than by reducing prices, we may lose market share and suffer reduced profit margins. If our competitors lower their prices, it could inhibit our ability to compete for customers with higher value-added sales and could lead to a reduction in our sales volumes and profit. If our product mix changed as a result of competitive pricing, it could have an adverse impact on our gross margins and profitability.If we fail to implement our business strategy, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.Our ability to achieve our business and financial objectives is subject to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. For example, factors such as increased competition, legal and regulatory developments, general economic conditions or increased operating costs could prevent us from increasing our capacity, implementing further productivity improvements, investing in technology upgrades or continuing to enhance our business and product mix.An important part of our strategy is to grow our business by expanding our capacity to process EAF dust. One new kiln to process EAF dust was placed into service in 2008 at our Rockwood, Tennessee facility and two new kilns were placed into service in 2010 at our new recycling facility in Barnwell, South Carolina. In addition, we are currently in the final phase of construction of our new zinc facility and may initiate other construction projects in the future. Our costs in connection with construction projects may also increase to levels that would make our facilities unprofitable to operate. Our planned projects may also suffer significant delays or cost overruns as a result of a variety of factors, such as shortages of workers or materials, transportation constraints, adverse weather, unforeseen difficulties or labor issues, any of which could prevent us from completing our expansion plans as currently expected. Our project plans may also result in other unanticipated adverse consequences, such as the diversion of management’s attention from our existing operations. In addition, even if we are able to implement our strategy, projected volumes with respect to our products may not materialize to the extent we expect, or at all, resulting in under utilized capacity. Any failure to successfully implement our business strategy, including for any of the above reasons, could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may, in addition, decide to alter or discontinue certain aspects of our business strategy at any time.21Table of ContentsWe may not have sufficient funds to finish the final phase of construction of the new zinc facility.As of December 31, 2013, we had $136.3 million of cash on hand, which together with borrowings available under our three revolving credit facilities and the Credit Agreement, we believe will be sufficient to enable us to complete the final construction phase of the new zinc facility. However, increases in the costs of constructing the final phase of the new zinc facility or other unforeseen circumstances could require us to obtain additional financing, which we may not be able to obtain on acceptable terms in a timely manner or at all. If we cannot complete the final construction phase of the new zinc facility, or final completion of construction is further delayed, it could affect our business strategies and our liquidity, financial condition and operations could be materially adversely affected.We may experience further delays or be unable to complete the final phase of construction, commissioning and ramp up of the new zinc facility, which would harm our profitability.We are currently in the final phase of construction and commissioning of our new zinc facility and currently expect to start operations near the end of March 2014. The construction and commissioning of the zinc facility have suffered various delays, including delays in early 2014 as a result of severe and prolonged cold weather conditions. We have also experienced delays due to minor equipment issues mostly related to locating and repairing sources of leaks. While we expect to complete the necessary work for the new zinc facility to be operational around the end of March 2014, unforeseen events could further delay completion of the final phase of construction and commissioning and could effect the ramp up of the facility to full production. If we cannot complete the final phase of construction and commissioning of the new zinc facility, or completion of construction and commissioning is significantly delayed, or the ramp up to full production is slower than expected, it could affect our business strategies and our liquidity, financial condition or operations could be materially adversely affected. The projected benefits from the new zinc facility may fail to materialize.The benefits that we project to receive from the new zinc facility are based on numerous assumptions, and if these assumptions are incorrect, it could negatively impact such projected benefits. The technology that we plan to use at this new zinc facility has only been implemented in a limited number of production environments, and our assumptions with regard to this technology may be incorrect. For example, some aspects of the technology in the new zinc facility have not been tested in exactly the same manner on a production scale or the equipment in the new zinc facility may not be operated in exactly the same manner as the other production environments. This could decrease the amount of SHG zinc, as well as other metals, that we are able to recover using the technology at the new zinc facility, which would increase the cost of the products that we expect to produce. We may also not be able to realize the reduced recycling costs or the logistical benefits that come from directly converting WOX to SHG zinc. If we are unable to successfully utilize the technology that we currently plan to use at the new zinc facility, we may not be able to fully realize the benefits that we expect from this new facility or we may be required to invest in additional equipment to realize these benefits. Further, we may be unable to penetrate the market for the SHG zinc that we plan to produce. Finally, the projected benefits at the new zinc facility are based on numerous other assumptions, including the recovery rate and prices of zinc and the other metals we expect to recover, energy consumption requirements, energy prices, the number of employees required to operate the new zinc facility and labor and maintenance costs at the new zinc facility. If any of our assumptions are incorrect, we may not realize the anticipated benefits from the new zinc facility, which could negatively impact our future business and results of operations. Servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to pay the notes or other debt we may occur.Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal or pay interest on or to refinance the Convertible Notes, the Senior Secured Notes, our credit facilities or other indebtedness we may incur, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control including our assumptions about the completion of construction, commissioning and ramp up to full production of our new zinc facility. Our business may not continue to generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on the Convertible Notes, the Senior Secured Notes, our credit facilities or other debt obligations we may incur.22Table of ContentsOur business could be harmed if we do not successfully manage the integration of businesses that we acquire in the future or we may not realize all or any of the anticipated benefits from acquisitions we make in the future.As part of our business strategy, we have and may continue to acquire other businesses that complement our core capabilities, including the acquisition of Zochem on November 1, 2011 and HZP on November 16, 2012. The benefits of an acquisition, including our recent acquisitions, may often take considerable time to develop and may not be realized. Business acquisitions entail a number of inherent risks such as:•the potential loss of key customers and employees of the acquired business;•the in-ability to achieve the operating and financial synergies anticipated from an acquisition;•disruptions that can arise from the integration of the acquired business; and•potential unknown liabilities or other difficulties associated with the acquired businesses.•As a result of the aforementioned and other risks, we may not realize the anticipated benefits from acquisitions, which could adversely affect our business.Work stoppages and other labor matters could interrupt our production or increase our costs, either of which would negatively impact our operating results. As of December 31, 2013, we had 1,074 employees, 623, or approximately 58%, of whom were covered by eight union contracts. The collective bargaining agreement for our Calumet, Illinois facility expires in August 2014 and the rest of our collective bargaining agreements expire between 2015 and 2016. We may be unable to resolve any present or future contract negotiations without work stoppages or significant increases in costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and operating results. We may be unable to maintain satisfactory relationships with our employees and their unions, and we may encounter strikes, further unionization efforts or other types of conflicts with labor unions or our employees, which may interfere with our production or increase our costs, either of which would negatively impact our operating results. Equipment or power failures, delays in deliveries or catastrophic loss at any of our facilities, such as experienced in the refinery incident at our Monaca, Pennsylvania facility that occurred on July 22, 2010 and the fire which occurred at our Ellwood City, Pennsylvania facility on October 28, 2012, could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales, increase our costs and/or negatively impact our results of operations.An interruption in production or service capabilities at any of our production facilities as a result of equipment or power failure or other reasons could limit our ability to deliver products to our customers, reducing our net sales and net income, increasing our costs and potentially damaging relationships with our customers. Any significant delay in deliveries to our customers could lead to increased returns or cancellations, damage to our reputation and/or permanent loss of customers. Any such production stoppage or delay could also require us to make unplanned capital expenditures, which together with reduced sales and increased costs, could adversely affect our results or operations.For instance, in July 2010, we experienced an incident at our refinery at our Monaca, Pennsylvania facility that resulted in two fatalities and reported injuries to two employees. We determined that we needed to rebuild each of the ten columns used to produce zinc oxide and refined zinc metal at this facility before production could be restarted but we were unable to commence reconstruction for several weeks pending completion of various regulatory and other investigations. Consequently, we lost approximately 12,000 tons of zinc production, incurred $17.9 million in increased costs related to the incident and estimate that our profit was decreased by $20.5 million excluding the amounts of any insurance recovery. Additionally, on October 28, 2012, our Ellwood City facility, which was in the process of its annual maintenance shutdown, experienced an unrelated fire and incurred damage to a portion of the building. The planned maintenance outage was only extended a day as a result of delays caused by the fire but we were not able to operate at full capacity until mid-December of 2012 because power was not fully restored to some ancillary operations. We completed final repairs at this facility by the end of the first quarter of 2013. The damages from the fire exceeded the Company’s insurance deductible of $0.5 million. We recorded $1.5 million in insurance recoveries related to property damage, which represents the partial settlement of our claim at December 31, 2012. In 2013, we reached a final settlement in the amount of $4.0 million and recorded an additional $2.5 million in insurance claim income related to property damage.Furthermore, because many of our customers are, to varying degrees, dependent on deliveries from our facilities, customers that have to reschedule their own production due to our missed deliveries could pursue financial claims against us. Our facilities are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, adverse weather conditions or other refinery incidents. We have experienced, and may experience in the future, periods of reduced production as a result of repairs that are necessary to our operations. If any of these events occur in the future, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, 23Table of Contentsfinancial condition or results of operations. Our insurance policies may not cover all of our losses and we could incur uninsured losses and liabilities arising from, among other things, loss of life, physical damage, business interruptions and product liability.Fluctuations in the cost or availability of electricity, coke, and/or natural gas would lead to higher manufacturing costs, thereby reducing our margins and limiting our cash flows from operations.Energy is one of our most significant costs, comprising approximately $84 million of our production costs at our Monaca and recycling facilities in 2013. Our processes rely on electricity, coke and natural gas in order to operate, and our freight operations depend heavily on the availability of diesel fuel. Energy prices, particularly for electricity, natural gas, coke and diesel fuel, have been volatile and have exceeded historical averages in recent years. These fluctuations impact our manufacturing costs and contribute to earnings volatility. We estimate that a hypothetical 10% increase in electricity, natural gas and coke costs would have reduced our income from operations by approximately $8.4 million for 2013. In addition, at most of our facilities we do not maintain sources of secondary power, and therefore any prolonged interruptions in the supply of energy to our facilities could result in lengthy production shutdowns, increased costs associated with restarting production and waste of production in progress. We have experienced rolling power outages in the past, and any future outages would reduce our production capacity, reducing our net sales and potentially impacting our ability to deliver products to our customers. If we were to lose order volumes from any of our major customers, our sales could decline significantly and our cash flows may be reduced.In 2013, our ten largest customers were responsible for 34% of our consolidated sales. In 2013, three of INMETCO’s customers provided 73% of its sales. A loss of order volumes from, or a loss of industry share by, any major customer could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations by lowering sales volumes, increasing costs and lowering profitability. In addition, some of our customers could become involved in bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings and could default on their obligations to us. We may be required to record significant additional reserves for accounts receivable from customers which may have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.In addition, approximately 46% by volume of our zinc product shipments in 2013 were to customers who do not have long-term contractual arrangements with us. These customers purchase products and services from us on a spot basis and may choose not to continue to purchase our products and services. The loss of these customers or a significant reduction in their purchase orders could have a negative impact on our sales volume and business. Our operations are subject to numerous federal and state statutes that regulate the protection of the health and safety of our employees, and changes in health and safety regulation could result in significant costs, which would reduce our margins and adversely affect our cash flow from operations.We are subject to the requirements of the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”), and comparable state statutes that regulate the protection of the health and safety of workers. In addition, the OSHA hazard communication standard requires that information be maintained about hazardous materials used or produced in operations and that this information be provided to employees, state and local government authorities and customers. We are also subject to federal and state laws regarding operational safety. Costs and liabilities related to worker safety may be incurred and any violation of health and safety laws or regulations could impose substantial costs on us. Possible future developments, including stricter safety laws for workers or others, regulations and enforcement policies and claims for personal injury or property damages resulting from our operations could result in substantial costs and liabilities that could reduce the amount of cash that we would otherwise have to distribute or use to service our indebtedness or further enhance our business.Litigation related to worker safety or employment laws may result in significant liabilities and limit our profitability.We may be involved in claims and litigation filed on behalf of persons alleging injuries suffered predominantly because of occupational exposure to substances at our facilities, or allegations of violations of laws prohibiting discrimination, or harassment or providing other rights relating to the employment relationship. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of these claims and lawsuits due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury or employment law litigation. If these claims and lawsuits, individually or in the aggregate, were finally resolved against us, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.We are subject to stringent environmental regulation, which may cause us to incur significant costs and liabilities that could materially harm our operating results.Our business is subject to a variety of environmental regulations and our operations expose us to various potential environmental liabilities. For example, we recycle EAF dust, which is listed and regulated as a hazardous waste under the EPA’s 24Table of Contentssolid waste RCRA. Failure to properly process and manage EAF dust could result in significant liability for us, including, among other things, costs for health-related claims or for remediation of hazardous substances in the environment. In addition, as part of the purchase of assets out of bankruptcy, we inherited responsibility for several environmental issues from our predecessor at our Palmerton, Pennsylvania and Bartlesville, Oklahoma facilities. The issues related to our Palmerton, Pennsylvania facility are cited in a 1995 EPA and PADEP consent decree, and the matters relating to our Bartlesville, Oklahoma facility are covered in a RCRA post-closure care permit issued by the Oklahoma Department of Environmental Quality. A reserve in the amount of $2.2 million was originally established as of December 31, 2010, to cover the cost of construction of a storage building for calcine kiln feed materials at our Palmerton, Pennsylvania facility ($1.5 million) and for ongoing post-closure groundwater monitoring and maintenance activities at our Bartlesville, Oklahoma facility ($0.7 million). The reserve ($1.5 million) for the Palmerton, Pennsylvania facility was removed during 2011 since the PADEP concurred with our assessment that construction of the storage building for calcine feed was not necessary. Consequently, no further reserves have been recorded. We may also incur costs related to future compliance with or violations of applicable environmental laws and regulations, including air emission regulations under “Maximum Achievable Control Technology” (“MACT”) rules relating to industrial boilers, future MACT regulations relating to the non-ferrous secondary metals production category and rules, compliance with the CO&A with PADEP entered into on November 21, 2012, related to the National Ambient Air Quality Standard (“NAAQS”) for lead emissions at our Monaca, Pennsylvania facility. Our total cost of environmental compliance at any time depends on a variety of regulatory, legal, technical and factual issues, some of which cannot be anticipated. Additional environmental issues could arise, or laws and regulations could be passed and promulgated, resulting in additional costs, which our reserves may not cover and which could materially harm our operating results.Potential federal climate change legislation or greenhouse gas regulation could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for our products. Over the past several years, Congress has considered legislation that would cap and reduce emissions of greenhouse gases (“GHGs”) for most industrial sectors, although to date no major climate change bill has been enacted. In June 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the American Clean Energy Security Act of 2009, which was introduced by Rep. Henry Waxman (D-CA) and Rep. Edward Markey (D-MA) and commonly known as “Waxman-Markey.” This bill would have established an economy-wide cap-and-trade system for emissions of GHGs, seeking to reduce them 17% below 2005 levels by 2020 and 83% below 2005 levels by 2050. Under Waxman-Markey, sources that emit GHGs would have been required to hold an emission allowance or an offset credit for each carbon dioxide-equivalent ton of a GHG emitted or produced on site. Broadly, Waxman-Markey and similar regulatory programs would likely have resulted in increased costs associated with the production and combustion of carbon-intensive fuels such as coal, oil, refined petroleum products, and gas. This bill was originally passed in the U.S. House, but was defeated in the Senate in 2009. It is possible that similar legislation could be proposed again in the near future.In addition, the EPA has begun regulating GHG emissions under the Clean Air Act in response to the Supreme Court’s 2007 decision in Massachusetts v. EPA. In December 2009, the EPA published its findings that atmospheric concentrations of GHGs endanger public health and welfare pursuant to the Clean Air Act (“CAA”) and that GHG emissions from new motor vehicles and new motor vehicle engines are contributing to air pollution endangering public health and welfare pursuant to the CAA (the “endangerment finding”). Although these findings do not by themselves impose any requirements with respect to sources emitting GHGs and contain no specific emission reduction targets, they have resulted in subsequent efforts by the EPA to regulate GHGs under the CAA. Following the endangerment finding, the EPA conducted several rulemakings that, if ultimately implemented, would regulate GHGs from certain stationary sources under the CAA. Separately, the EPA has promulgated a series of rulemakings requiring the reporting of GHG emissions. The adoption and implementation of any regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of GHGs from, our equipment and operations could require us to incur significant costs to reduce emissions of GHGs associated with our operations.On October 30, 2009, the EPA promulgated the Final Rule for the Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases (“GHG”). This rule became effective on December 29, 2009. As part of this rulemaking the EPA identified zinc production as a Source Category consisting of zinc smelters and secondary zinc recycling facilities in Subpart GG of 40 CFR Part 98. This requires the reporting of carbon dioxide (“CO2”), methane (“CH4”), and nitrous oxide (“N2O”) from each Waelz kiln and electrothermic furnace used for zinc production. Additionally CO2, CH4 and N2O from each stationary combustion unit other than the Waelz kilns must also be reported. Starting in 2010, GHG emissions for sources emitting greater than 25,000 metric tons of CO2 equivalents (CO2(e)) are to be reported into a national database set up by the EPA. Some states such as Pennsylvania are now asking that this also be reported as part of an annual inventory submittal.In addition to the reporting rule on May 13, 2010, the EPA issued a GHG Tailoring Rule that sets thresholds for GHG emissions that define when permits under the New Source Review Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) and Title V 25Table of ContentsOperating Permit programs are required for new and existing sources. The Tailoring Rule PSD permitting requirements cover new construction projects that emit GHG emissions of greater than 100,000 metric tons even if they do not exceed the threshold limits for any other criteria pollutants. Modifications at existing facilities that increase GHG emissions by at least 75,000 metric tons are also subject to the PSD requirements. This rule also requires Title V Permits for facilities that emit greater than 100,000 tons per year of CO2(e). As part of the Tailoring Rule, the EPA was also required to look at permitting smaller sources of GHG emissions. This is currently on hold but can be expected at a later date.EPA rules regulating GHG emissions have resulted and will continue to result in electric utilities increasing their rates to pay for compliance measures, and our electric power costs could significantly increase as a result.We believe we are in substantial compliance with existing environmental laws and regulations applicable to our current operations. However, accidental spills or releases may occur in the course of our operations, and we cannot give any assurance that we will not incur substantial costs and liabilities as a result of such spills or releases, including those relating to claims for damage to property, persons, natural resources or the environment. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that the passage of more stringent laws or regulations in the future will not have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our hedging strategies may fail to protect us from changes in the prices for natural gas, zinc and nickel, which could reduce our gross margin and cash flow. We pursue various hedging strategies, including entering into forward purchase contracts and call and put options, in order to reduce our exposure to losses from adverse changes in the prices for natural gas, zinc and nickel. Our hedging activities may fail to protect or could harm our operating results because, among other things:•hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of volatile prices;•available hedges may not correspond directly with the risks that we are seeking to protect ourselves against;•the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the risk that we are seeking to protect ourselves against; •the counterparty or clearing agent to a hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay or deliver under the forward contract; and•we may need to post collateral with counterparties for certain hedging transactions.We depend on the service of key individuals, the loss of whom could materially harm our business.Our success will depend, in part, on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees, none of whom are covered by key person insurance policies. These individuals possess sales, marketing, engineering, manufacturing, financial and administrative skills that are critical to the operation of our business. If we lose or suffer an extended interruption in the services of one or more of our executive officers or other key employees, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be negatively impacted. Moreover, the market for qualified individuals may be highly competitive and we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel to succeed members of our management team or other key employees, should the need arise.We may not be able to protect our intellectual property, particularly our proprietary technology related to the recycling of EAF dust and the processing of nickel-bearing materials. Our market share and results of operations could be harmed.We rely upon proprietary know-how and continuing technological and operating innovation and other trade secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position. Our competitors could gain knowledge of our know-how or trade secrets, either directly or through one or more of our employees or other third parties. If one or more of our competitors can use or independently develop such know-how or trade secrets, our market share, sales volumes and profit margins could be adversely affected.We depend on third parties for transportation services, and their failure to deliver raw material to us or finished products to our customers could increase our costs and harm our reputation and operating results.We rely primarily on third parties for transportation of the products we manufacture, as well as the delivery of EAF dust to our recycling plants and other raw materials, including recycled zinc, to our production facilities. In particular, a substantial portion of the raw materials we use is transported by railroad, which is highly regulated. If any of our third-party transportation providers were to fail to deliver our products in a timely manner, we may be unable to sell those products at full value or at all. Similarly, if any of these providers were to fail to deliver raw materials to us in a timely manner, we may be unable to meet customer demand. In addition, if any of these third parties were to cease operations or cease doing business with us, we may be unable to replace them at reasonable cost. Any failure of a third-party transportation provider to deliver raw materials or finished products in a timely manner could disrupt our operations, harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.26Table of ContentsWe depend on our supplier relationships, and adverse changes in these relationships or our ability to enter into new relationships could negatively affect our revenue.We rely significantly on our suppliers. Adverse changes in any of our relationships with suppliers or the inability to enter into new relationships with suppliers could negatively impact our operation and performance. Our current arrangements with suppliers may not remain in effect on current or similar terms and the impact of changes to those arrangements may adversely impact our revenue.Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial flexibility and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under the agreements governing our indebtedness.As a result of the issuance of our 3.80% Convertible Notes on July 27, 2011, our 10.50% Senior Secured Notes on July 26, 2012 and June 3, 2013, borrowings on our Credit Agreement entered into on November 14, 2012 and borrowings under our ABL Facility entered into on September 28, 2011, our Zochem Facility entered into on December 21, 2012 and our INMETCO Facility entered into on June 24, 2013, we currently have a significant amount of indebtedness. At December 31, 2013, we had $357.6 million of total indebtedness outstanding (excluding $10.1 million of letters of credit outstanding under our ABL Facility and Zochem Facility) and $11.2 million of surety bonds outstanding). We have approximately an aggregate $7.2 million of available letter of credit and borrowing capacity under our three credit facilities and our Credit Agreement. Our substantial level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay amounts due in respect of our indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness could have other important consequences and significant effects on our business.For example, it could:•limit our ability to borrow additional amounts to fund working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy, or acquisitions;•require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our debt, which would reduce the funds available to us for other purposes;•make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions, in government regulations and in our business by limiting our flexibility in planning for, and making it more difficult for us to react quickly to, changing conditions; and•make it more difficult to satisfy our financial obligations, including payments on the Convertible Notes and the Senior Secured Notes.Our ability to make payments on and refinance our debt depends on our ability to generate cash flow. To some extent, this is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our business may not generate cash flow from operations at levels sufficient to permit us to pay principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, and our cash needs may increase. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our debt and meet our other cash needs, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell or curtail assets or operations, seek additional capital, or seek to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. If we must sell or curtail our assets or operations, it may negatively affect our ability to generate revenue.Restrictive covenants in the indentures and credit agreements governing the Convertible Notes, Senior Secured Notes, our three credit facilities and the Credit Agreement limit our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to pursue our business strategies.These indentures and credit agreements contain and the agreements evidencing or governing other future indebtedness may contain, restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. These indentures and credit agreements limit our ability to:•incur additional indebtedness and guarantee indebtedness;•declare or pay dividends, redeem capital stock or make other distributions to stockholders;•make investments and acquire assets;•enter into agreements that restrict distributions from restricted subsidiaries;•sell or transfer certain assets;•enter into transactions with affiliates;•create liens or use assets as security in other transactions;•enter into sale and leaseback transactions;•merge or consolidate, or sell, transfer, lease or dispose of substantially all of our assets; and•make certain payments on indebtedness.27Table of ContentsOur ability to comply with these covenants will likely be affected by many factors, including events beyond our control, and we may not satisfy those requirements. A breach of the covenants or restrictions under these indentures could result in a default under the applicable indebtedness. Such default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In the event our lenders and holders of the Convertible Notes or Senior Secured Notes accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we cannot assure you that we and our subsidiaries would have sufficient assets to repay such indebtedness.The restrictions contained in these indentures and agreements governing our other indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to:•finance our operations;•make needed capital expenditures;•make strategic acquisitions or investments or enter into alliances;•withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general;•engage in business activities, including future opportunities, that may be in our interest; and plan for or react to market conditions or otherwise execute our business strategiesRisks related to our Common StockThe market price for shares of our common stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations.The market for equity securities has been subject to significant disruptions that have caused substantial volatility in the prices of these and other securities, which may or may not have corresponded to the business or financial performance of the particular company. The market price for shares of our common stock has been affected in the past and may continue to be affected by general market conditions unrelated to our operating performance.Some specific factors that may have a significant effect on the future market price of our shares of common stock include:•our ability to successfully complete the final phase of construction of our new zinc facility and our ability to realize the benefits we expect to achieve from that facility;•actual or expected fluctuations in our operating results;•actual or expected changes in our growth rates or our competitors’ growth rates;•changes in general economic conditions or conditions in our industry generally;•changes in market prices for our products or for our raw materials, including changes in the price of zinc;•changes in revenue or earnings estimates, publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts;•changes in stock market analyst research and recommendations regarding the shares of our common stock, other comparable companies or our industry generally;•speculation in the press or investment community generally or relating to our reputation or our industry;•changes in conditions in the financial markets; •our ability to raise additional capital; •future sales of our equity or equity related securities;•our compliance with environmental laws and regulations and our exposure to liabilities and potential investigations and enforcement actions with respect to such laws and regulations;•changes in applicable laws or regulations;•adverse market reaction to any increased indebtedness we incur in the future;•additions or departures of key management personnel; •strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; and•actions by our stockholders;These and other factors may affect your ability to resell your shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid for such shares.We do not have any current plan to pay, and are restricted in our ability to pay, any dividends on our common stock, and as a result, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment in our common stock is if the price of our common stock increases.We anticipate that we will retain all future earnings and other cash resources for the future operation and development of our business. Accordingly, we do not intend to declare or pay regular cash dividends on our common stock in the near future. Payment of any future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account many factors, including 28Table of Contentsour operating results, financial conditions, current and anticipated cash needs and plans for expansion. The declaration and payment of any dividends on our common stock is also restricted by the terms of our credit facilities and the indenture governing our 10.50% Senior Secured Notes due 2017. As a result, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment in us will be if the price of our common stock increases and if you are able to sell your shares at a profit. You may not be able to sell shares of our common stock at a price that exceeds the price that you paid.Provisions of our Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-laws could delay or prevent a takeover of us by a third party and may prevent attempts by stockholders to replace or remove our current management.Provisions in our Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-laws and of Delaware corporate law may make it difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by our management and board of directors. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to benefit from a change of control or change our management and board of directors. Our Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-laws:•authorize the issuance of blank check preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt;•prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow holders of less than a majority of stock to elect some directors;•require super-majority voting by our stockholders to effect amendments to provisions of our Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation concerning the number of directors;•require super-majority voting by our stockholders to effect any stockholder-initiated amendment to any provision of our Amended and Restated By-laws;•limit who may call special meeting of our stockholders;•prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders;•establish advance notice requirements for stockholder nominations of candidates for election to the board of directors or for stockholder proposals that can be acted upon at annual meetings of stockholders; and•require that vacancies on the board of directors, including newly-created directorships to be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office.In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and limit the return, if any, you are able to achieve on your investment in us.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.29Table of Contents