Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below are certain risk factors that could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. You should carefully read the following risk factors, together with the financial statements, related notes and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that contain risks and uncertainties. Please refer to the discussion of “Forward-Looking Statements” on page two of this Annual Report on Form 10-K in connection with your consideration of the risk factors and other important factors that may affect future results described below. 10 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business A prolonged economic downturn could materially harm our business. Our ability to generate revenue is affected by the level of business activity of our OEM and Creative Professional customers, which, in most cases, is affected by the level of economic activity occurring in the industries and markets that our customers serve. Negative trends in the general economy, including trends resulting from a recession, the availability of credit, actual or threatened military action by the United States, terrorist attacks on the United States or abroad or increased oil prices, could cause a decrease in consumer and or business spending on computer hardware and software and CE devices in general and could negatively affect the rate of growth of CE device markets or of adoption of CE devices. Any economic downturn, including a reduction in consumer confidence or disposable income in general, could also adversely affect the demand for fonts or impair the ability of our customers to pay for products and services that they have purchased. With the general economic slowdown that the worldwide economy has experienced recently, we have seen a decrease in the demand for CE devices, including laser printers, which in turn, has decreased the demand for our font technologies. With respect to our Creative Professional business, we have also, for example, seen a reduction in font purchases by our publishing customers who have been impacted by overall economic conditions. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent economic recovery and this uncertainty makes it difficult to determine if past experience is a good guide to the future. If the downturn in the general economy or markets in which we operate persists or worsens from present levels, the demand for fonts and font technologies could continue to decline and our revenue and profitability could be materially and adversely impacted. We derive a substantial majority of our revenue from a limited number of licensees, and if we are unable to maintain these customer relationships or attract additional customers, our revenue will be adversely affected. We derive a substantial majority of our revenue from the licensing of our text imaging solutions to OEMs. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, our top ten licensees by revenue accounted for approximately 47.1%, 46.3% and 46.6% of our total revenue, respectively. Accordingly, if we are unable to maintain these relationships or establish relationships with new customers, our licensing revenue will be adversely affected. In addition, some of our license agreements are for a limited period of time and, upon expiration of their license agreements, these OEMs may not renew their agreements or may elect not to enter into new agreements with us on terms as favorable as our current agreements. We face pressure from our customers to lower our license fees and, to the extent we lower them in the future, our revenue may be adversely affected. The CE device markets are highly competitive and CE device manufacturers are continually looking for ways to reduce the costs of components included in their products in order to maintain or broaden consumer acceptance of those products. Because our technologies are a component incorporated into CE devices, when negotiating renewals of customer contracts, we face pressure from our customers to lower our license fees. We have in the past, and may in the future, need to lower our license fees, either immediately or over time, to preserve customer relationships or extend use of our technology to a broader range of products. To the extent contractual license fees for any particular customer are lower in the future, we cannot be certain that we will be able to achieve related increases in the use of our technologies or other benefits to fully offset the effects of these adjustments. If we fail to develop and deliver innovative text imaging solutions in response to changes in our industry, including changes in consumer tastes or trends, our revenue could decline. The markets for our text imaging solutions are characterized by rapid change and technological evolution and are intensely competitive and price sensitive. We will need to expend considerable 11 Table of Contents resources on product development in the future to continue to design and deliver enduring and innovative text imaging solutions. We rely on the introduction of new or expanded solutions with additional or enhanced features and functionality to allow us to maintain our royalty rates in the face of downward pressure on our royalties resulting from efforts by CE device manufacturers to reduce costs. Despite our efforts, we may not be able to develop and effectively market new text imaging solutions that adequately or competitively address the needs of the changing marketplace. In addition, we may not correctly identify new or changing market trends at an early enough stage to capitalize on market opportunities. Our future success depends, to a great extent, on our ability to develop and deliver innovative text imaging solutions that are widely adopted in response to changes in our industry, that are compatible with the solutions introduced by other participants in our industry and for which the CE device manufacturers are willing to pay competitive royalties. Our failure to deliver innovative text imaging solutions that allow us to stay competitive and for which we can maintain our royalty rates would adversely affect our revenue. If Hewlett Packard or Adobe were to discontinue their use of our text imaging solutions in their products, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Because of their market position as industry leaders, the incorporation by HP of our text imaging solutions in its laser printers and the incorporation of our text imaging solutions by Adobe in its PostScript product promote widespread adoption of our technologies by manufacturers seeking to maintain compatibility with HP and Adobe. If HP or Adobe were to stop using our text imaging solutions in their products, the market acceptance of our technologies by other CE device manufacturers would be materially and adversely affected, and this would in turn adversely affect our revenue. If we are unable to further penetrate our existing markets or adapt or develop text imaging solutions, our business prospects could be limited. We expect that our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to successfully penetrate existing markets for CE devices, including laser printers, digital copiers, mobile phones, digital televisions, set-top boxes, navigation devices and digital cameras. To date, we have penetrated only some of these markets. Our ability to grow our revenue depends upon our ability to further penetrate these markets and to successfully penetrate those markets in which we currently have no presence. Demand for our text imaging solutions in any of these developing markets may not develop or grow, and a sufficiently broad base of OEMs may not adopt or continue to use products that employ our text imaging solutions. Because of our limited experience in some of these markets, we may not be able to adequately adapt our business and our solutions to the needs of these customers. In addition, traditionally we have licensed our technologies and fonts to OEMs that embed our technology on their platforms. Software licensing models are evolving and if we are not able to make our fonts and font technologies available under these models, our business prospects could suffer. New licensing and business models are evolving in the software industry. For example, a company may provide software applications, data and related services over the Internet, using primarily advertising or subscription-based revenue models sometimes known as “cloud computing.” Recent advances in computing and communications technologies, and specifically a growth in the demand for web based fonts that integrate seamlessly with all web browsers and operating systems, have made this model viable. As software licensing models evolve, we may not be successful in adapting to these new business models and our business prospects could suffer. Open source software may make us more vulnerable to competition because new market entrants and existing competitors could introduce similar products quickly and cheaply. Open source refers to the free sharing of software code used to build applications in the software development community. Individual programmers may modify and create derivative works and distribute 12 Table of Contents them at no cost to the end-user. To the extent that open source software that has the same or similar functionality as our technologies is developed or gains market share, demand for our text imaging solutions may decline, we may have to reduce the prices we charge for our text imaging solutions and our results of operations may be negatively affected. The rate of growth of the market for CE devices is uncertain. Our success depends in large part upon the ability of CE device manufacturers who license our text imaging solutions to successfully market and sell their products. Continued growth in the adoption of CE devices like mobile phones and technological improvements in wireless devices, such as increases in functional memory, are critical to our future growth. If CE device manufacturers do not continue to successfully develop and market new products and services incorporating our text imaging solutions, or the products that our customers develop and market do not meet market acceptance, our revenue and operating results will be adversely affected. The market for text imaging solutions for laser printers is a mature market growing at a slower rate than other markets in which we operate. To the extent that sales of laser printers level off or decline, our licensing revenue may be adversely affected. A significant portion of our revenue in 2009, 2008 and 2007 was derived from laser printer manufacturers. The laser printer market is a mature market and as a result, it has grown at a slower rate than other markets in which we operate. In 2009, the laser printer market experienced a decline and our revenue was adversely affected. If sales of printers incorporating our text imaging solutions level off, or decline, then our licensing revenue may be adversely affected. Our operating results may fluctuate based upon an increase or decrease of market share by CE device manufacturers to whom we license our text imaging solutions. The terms of our license agreements with our CE device manufacturers vary. For example, we have fixed fee licensing agreements with certain customers, some of which may decline over time. If these customers, some of whom are instrumental in setting industry standards and influencing early adoption of technology incorporating our text imaging solutions, were to increase their share of the CE device market, under the terms of these agreements there would not be a corresponding increase in our revenue. Any change in the market share of CE device manufacturers to whom we license our text imaging solutions is entirely outside of our control. The success of our business is influenced by the interoperability of our text imaging solutions with a variety of CE devices and software applications and operating systems. To be successful we must design our text imaging solutions to interoperate effectively with a variety of CE devices. We depend on the cooperation of CE device manufacturers with respect to the components integrated into their devices, such as page description languages, or PDLs, as well as software developers that create the operating systems and applications, to incorporate our solutions into their product offerings. If manufacturers of CE devices elect not to incorporate our solutions into their product offerings, our revenue potential would be adversely affected. Our success depends on the existence of a market for products that incorporate our text imaging solutions. Our future success will depend on market demand for text imaging solutions that enable CE devices to render high quality text. This market is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and needs, and frequent new product introductions. If the need for laser printers and other CE devices utilizing our technology were to decrease or if current models of these products were replaced by 13 Table of Contents new or existing products for which we do not have a competitive solution or if our solutions are replaced by others that become the industry standard, our customers may not purchase our solutions and our revenue would be adversely affected. For example, if graphical device interface, or GDI, printers became the industry standard replacing PDL printers, our revenue would be adversely affected. We face significant competition in various markets, and if we are unable to compete successfully, our ability to generate revenue from our business could suffer. We face significant competition in the text imaging solutions markets. We believe that our most significant competitive threat comes from companies that compete with some of our specific offerings. Those competitors currently include Adobe, Bitstream, Ascender, Software Imaging, Extensis, Insider Software, FreeType, and local providers of text imaging solutions whose products are specific to a particular country’s language. We also compete with the internal development efforts of certain of the CE device manufacturers to whom we license our solutions, most of which have greater financial, technical and other resources than we do. Similarly, we also face competition from font foundries, font related websites and independent professionals. Some of our current or future competitors may have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do, may enjoy greater name recognition than we do or may have more experience or advantages than we have in the markets in which they compete. These advantages may include, among others: • sales and marketing advantages; • advantages in the recruitment and retention of skilled personnel; • advantages in the establishment and negotiation of profitable strategic, distribution and customer relationships; • advantages in the development and acquisition of innovative software technology and the acquisition of software companies; • greater ability to pursue larger scale product development and distribution initiatives on a global basis; • substantially larger patent portfolios; and • operational advantages. Further, many of the devices that incorporate our text imaging solutions also include technologies and fonts developed by our competitors. As a result, we must continue to invest significant resources in product development in order to enhance our text imaging solutions and introduce new high-quality solutions to meet the wide variety of competitive pressures. Our ability to generate revenue from our business could suffer if we fail to do so successfully. Our business is dependent in part on technologies and fonts we license from third parties and these license rights may be inadequate for our business. Certain of our text imaging solutions are dependent in part on the licensing and incorporation of technologies from third parties, and we license a substantial number of fonts from third parties. For example, we have entered into license agreements with AGFA Gevaert N.V. under which we have acquired rights to use certain color technology. We also have license agreements with Microsoft, Adobe and others under which we license certain fonts. Our license agreements with these parties are limited by the ownership or licensing rights of our licensors. If any of the technologies we license from third parties fail to perform as expected, if our licensors do not continue to support any of their technology or intellectual property, including fonts, because they go out of business or otherwise, or if the technologies 14 Table of Contents or fonts we license are subject to infringement claims, then we may incur substantial costs in replacing the licensed technologies or fonts or fall behind in our development schedule and our business plan while we search for a replacement. In addition, replacement technology and fonts may not be available for license on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Parties from whom we license text imaging solutions may challenge the basis for our calculations of the royalties due to them. Some of our agreements with licensors require us to give them the right to audit our calculations of royalties payable to them. In addition, licensors may at any time challenge the basis of our calculations and we cannot be sure that we will be successful in our defense. Any royalties paid as a result of any successful challenge would increase our expenses and could negatively impact our relationship with such licensor, including by impairing our ability to continue to use and re-license technologies or fonts from that licensor. Our business and prospects depend on the strength of our brands, and if we do not maintain and strengthen our brands, we may be unable to maintain or expand our business. Maintaining and strengthening the Monotype and Linotype brands, the fonts.com, itcfonts.com, linotype.com and faces.co.uk brands, the FontExplorerX brand, as well as the brands of our fonts, such as Helvetica and ITC Avant Garde, is critical to maintaining and expanding our business, as well as to our ability to enter into new markets for our text imaging solutions. If we fail to promote and maintain these brands successfully, our ability to sustain and expand our business and enter into new markets will suffer. Maintaining and strengthening our brands will depend heavily on our ability to continue to develop and provide innovative and high-quality solutions for our customers, as well as to continue to maintain our strong online presence. If we fail to maintain high-quality standards, if we fail to meet industry standards, or if we introduce text imaging solutions that our customers or potential customers reject, the strength of our brands could be adversely affected. Further, unauthorized third parties may use our brands in ways that may dilute or undermine their strength. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property, we could lose our intellectual property rights, which could negatively affect our revenue or dilute or undermine the strength of our brands. Our success is heavily dependent upon our ability to protect our intellectual property, including our fonts. To protect our intellectual property, we rely on a combination of United States and international patents, design registrations, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret restrictions, end-user license agreements, or EULAs, and the implementation and enforcement of nondisclosure and other contractual restrictions. Despite these efforts, we may be unable to effectively protect our proprietary rights and the enforcement of our proprietary rights may be extremely costly. For example, our ability to enforce intellectual property rights in the actual design of our fonts is limited. We hold patents related to certain of our rasterizer and compression technologies and registered trademarks on many of our fonts. Our patents may be challenged or invalidated, patents may not issue from any of our pending applications or claims allowed from existing or pending patents may not be of sufficient scope or strength (or may not issue in the countries where products incorporating our technology may be sold) to provide meaningful protection or be of any commercial advantage to us. Some of our patents have been and/or may be licensed or cross-licensed to our competitors. We rely on trademark protection for the names of our fonts. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and distribute our proprietary technologies and fonts. Also, many applications do not need to identify our fonts by name, such as those designs embedded in mobile telephones and set-top boxes, and therefore may not need to license trademarked fonts. We sometimes protect fonts by copyright registration but we do not always own the copyrights in fonts licensed from third parties. In addition, we cannot be certain that we will be able to enforce our copyrights against a third party who independently develops fonts even if it generates font designs identical to ours. 15 Table of Contents Our EULA generally permits the embedding of our fonts into an electronic document only for the purpose of viewing and printing the document, but technologies, including those related to web-based fonts, may exist or may develop which allow unauthorized persons who receive such an embedded document to use the embedded font for editing the document or even to install the font into an operating system, the same as if the font had been properly licensed. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property or copying of our fonts may dilute or undermine the strength of our brands. Also, we may be unable to generate revenue from products that incorporate our text imaging solutions without our authorization. Monitoring unauthorized use of our text imaging solutions is difficult and expensive. A substantial portion of the CE devices that require text imaging solutions are manufactured in China. We cannot be certain that the steps we take to prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property will be effective, particularly in countries like the China where the laws may not protect proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. We conduct a substantial portion of our business outside North America and, as a result, we face diverse risks related to engaging in international business. We have offices in five foreign countries and we are dedicating a significant portion of our sales efforts in countries outside North America. We are dependent on international sales for a substantial amount of our total revenue. In 2009 and 2008, approximately 66.4% and 67.5%, respectively, of our total revenue was derived from operations outside the U.S and we expect that international sales will continue to represent a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. This future international revenue will depend on the continued use and expansion of our text imaging solutions, including the licensing of our technologies and fonts worldwide. We are subject to the risks of conducting business internationally, including: • our ability to enforce our contractual and intellectual property rights, especially in those foreign countries that do not respect and protect intellectual property rights to the same extent that the United States does, which increases the risk of unauthorized and uncompensated use of our text imaging solutions; • United States and foreign government trade restrictions, including those that may impose restrictions on importation of programming, technology or components to or from the United States; • foreign government taxes, regulations and permit requirements, including foreign taxes that we may not be able to offset against taxes imposed upon us in the United States, and foreign tax and other laws limiting our ability to repatriate funds to the United States; • foreign labor laws, regulations and restrictions; • changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; • difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; • political instability, natural disasters, war and/or events of terrorism; and • the strength of international economies. We are an international company and, as a result, we face significant foreign currency exchange rate risk We face risks related to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, in particular fluctuations in the exchange rate of the Japanese yen, the European Union’s euro, and the United Kingdom’s pound sterling, including risks related to hedging activities we may undertake. For example, prior to instituting foreign currency hedging, we recorded losses on foreign currency exchange of $1.4 million in 2005 primarily due to fluctuation in the value of the Japanese yen relative to the United States dollar. 16 Table of Contents Although we attempt to mitigate a portion of these risks through foreign currency hedging, these activities may not effectively offset the adverse financial effect resulting from unfavorable movements in currency exchange rates. Our text imaging solutions compete with solutions offered by some of our customers, which have significant competitive advantages. We face competitive risks in situations where our customers are also current or potential competitors. For example, Adobe is a significant licensee of our text imaging solutions, but Adobe is also a competitor with respect to the licensing of technologies and fonts. To the extent that Adobe or our other customers choose to utilize competing text imaging solutions they have developed or in which they have an interest, rather than utilizing our solutions, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Adobe also offers broader product lines than we do, including software products outside of the text imaging solutions markets that provide Adobe with greater opportunities to bundle and cross-sell products to its large user base. To the extent our customers were to offer text imaging solutions comparable to ours at a similar or lower price, our revenue could decline and our business would be harmed. Adoption of Microsoft’s XPS Printing Language could have an adverse impact on our future licensing revenue. With the introduction of the Microsoft Vista operating system, a new printing and networking subsystems language, referred to as XML Paper Specification language, or XPS, was introduced to the market . If the laser printer market shifts away from PCL and PostScript to Microsoft’s XPS language, our licensing revenue could be adversely affected. We may be forced to litigate to defend our intellectual property rights or to defend against claims by third parties against us relating to intellectual property rights. Disputes and litigation regarding the ownership of technologies and fonts and rights associated with text imaging solutions, such as ours, are common, and sometimes involve patent holding companies or other adverse patent owners who have no relevant product revenue and against whom our own patents may therefore provide little or no deterrence. Third parties have from time to time claimed, and in the future may claim, that our products and services infringe or violate their intellectual property rights. Any such claims could cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, could require that we pay substantial damages and prevent us from selling our products. We may be forced to litigate to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of other parties’ proprietary rights. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation regarding intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. We may also be obligated to indemnify our customers or business partners pursuant to any such litigation, which could further exhaust our resources. Furthermore, as a result of an intellectual property challenge, we may be required to enter into royalty, license or other agreements, and we may not be able to obtain such agreements at all or on terms acceptable to us. We have been in the past involved in litigation with third parties, including Adobe, to defend our intellectual property rights and have not always prevailed. Current and future industry standards may limit our business opportunities. Various industry leaders have adopted or are in the process of adopting standards for CE devices that incorporate, or have the potential to incorporate, our text imaging solutions. Although we have made some efforts to have our text imaging solutions adopted as standards by industry market leaders, these efforts 17 Table of Contents have been limited and we do not control the ultimate decision with respect to whether our solutions will be adopted as industry standards in the future or, to the extent they are adopted, whether and for how long they will continue as such. If industry standards adopted exclude our solutions, we will lose market share and our ability to secure the business of OEMs subject to those standards will be adversely affected. Costs or potential delays in the development of our solutions to comply with such standards could significantly increase our expenses and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to others who comply faster or in a more cost efficient way or those whose solutions are adopted as the industry standard. We may also need to acquire or license additional intellectual property rights from third parties which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, and we may be required to license our intellectual property to third parties for purposes of standards compliance. We rely on the manufacturers to whom we license our text imaging solutions to accurately prepare royalty reports for our determination of licensing revenue and if these reports are inaccurate, our revenue may be under-, or over-stated and our forecasts and budgets may be incorrect. Our license revenue is generated primarily from royalties paid by CE device manufacturers who license our text imaging solutions and incorporate them into their products. Under these arrangements, these licensees typically pay us a specified royalty for every consumer hardware device they ship that incorporates our text imaging solutions. We rely on our licensees to accurately report the number of units shipped. We calculate our license fees, prepare our financial reports, projections and budgets and direct our licensing and technology development efforts based in part on these reports. However, it is often difficult for us to independently determine whether or not our licensees are reporting shipments accurately. We understand that CE device manufacturers in specific countries have a history of underreporting or failing to report shipments of their products. We have implemented an audit program of our licensees’ records, but the effects of this program may be limited as audits are generally expensive and time consuming and initiating audits could harm our relationships with licensees. In addition, our audit rights are contractually limited. To the extent that our licensees understate or fail to report the number of products incorporating our text imaging solutions that they ship, we will not collect and recognize revenue to which we are entitled. Alternatively, we may encounter circumstances in which an OEM customer may notify us that it previously reported and paid royalties on units in excess of what the customer actually shipped. In such cases, we may be required to give our licensee a credit for the excess royalties paid which would result in a reduction in revenue in the period in which a credit is granted, and such a reduction could be material. The technologies in our text imaging solutions may be subject to open source licenses, which may restrict how we use or distribute our technologies or require that we release the source code of certain technologies subject to those licenses. Certain open source licenses, such as the GNU Lesser General Public License, require that source code subject to the license be released or made available to the public. Such open source licenses typically mandate that proprietary technologies, when combined in specific ways with open source software, become subject to the open source license. We take steps to ensure that our proprietary technologies are not combined with, or do not incorporate, open source software in ways that would require our proprietary technologies to be subject to an open source license. However, few courts have interpreted the open source licenses, and the manner in which these licenses may be interpreted and enforced is therefore subject to uncertainty. While our EULA prohibits the use of our technologies in any way that would cause them to become subject to an open source license, our OEM customers could, in violation of our EULA, combine our technologies with technologies covered by an open source license. In addition, we rely on multiple software engineers to design our proprietary text imaging solutions. Although we take steps to ensure that our engineers do not include open source software in the technologies they design, we may not exercise complete control over the product development efforts of our engineers and we cannot be certain that they have not incorporated open source software into our 18 Table of Contents proprietary technologies. In the event that portions of our proprietary technologies are determined to be subject to an open source license, we might be required to publicly release the affected portions of our source code, which could reduce or eliminate our ability to commercialize our text imaging solutions. Also, our ability to market our text imaging solutions depends in part on the existence of proprietary operating systems. If freely distributed operating systems like Linux become more prevalent, the need for our solutions may diminish and our revenue could be adversely affected. Finally, in the event we develop technologies that operate under or are delivered under an open source license, such technologies may have little or no direct financial benefit to us. Our licensing revenue depends in large part upon OEMs incorporating our text imaging solutions into their products and if our solutions are not incorporated in these products or fewer products are sold that incorporate our solutions, our revenue will be adversely affected. Our licensing revenue from OEMs depends upon the extent to which these OEMs embed our technologies in their products. We do not control their decision whether or not to embed our solutions into their products, and we do not control their product development or commercialization efforts. If we fail to develop and offer solutions that adequately or competitively address the needs of the changing marketplace, OEMs may not be willing to embed our solutions into their products. The process utilized by OEMs to design, develop, produce and sell their products is generally 12 to 24 months in duration. As a result, if an OEM is unwilling or unable to embed our solutions into a product that it is manufacturing or developing, we may experience significant delays in generating revenue while we wait for that OEM to begin development of a new product that may embed our solutions. In addition, if OEMs sell fewer products incorporating our solutions, our revenue will be adversely affected. We incur significant costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with changing laws and regulations, including those affecting public companies, which could affect our operating results. We have incurred and will incur significant costs, and have and could experience internal resources constraints, associated with the evaluation of and compliance with evolving corporate governance, reporting and other requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Massachusetts data protection laws, as well as rules implemented by the SEC, and the NASDAQ Global Select Market. The expenses incurred by public companies for reporting and corporate governance purposes have been increasing. We expect that the rules and regulations applicable to us could cause our legal and financial compliance costs to increase and could make some activities more time-consuming and costly. In addition, in the current public company environment officers and directors are subject to increased scrutiny and may be subject to increased potential liability. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as our executive officers. This could negatively impact our future success. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls in the future, our ability to produce accurate financial statements could be impaired, which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and maintain our stock price. Ensuring that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and that our independent auditors separately report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Both we and our independent auditors test our internal controls in connection with the Section 404 requirements and could, as part of that documentation and testing, identify material weaknesses, significant deficiencies or other areas for further attention or improvement. Our networks may be vulnerable to security risks and hacker attacks, which may affect our ability to maintain effective internal controls as contemplated by Section 404. Implementing any appropriate changes to our internal 19 Table of Contents controls may require specific compliance training for our directors, officers and employees, entail substantial costs to modify our existing accounting systems, and take a significant period of time to complete. Such changes may not, however, be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal controls, and any failure to maintain that adequacy, or consequent inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, could increase our operating costs and could materially impair our ability to operate our business. In addition, disclosure regarding our internal controls or investors’ perceptions that our internal controls are inadequate or that we are unable to produce accurate financial statements may adversely affect our stock price. Because of their significant stock ownership, some of our existing stockholders are able to exert substantial control over us and our significant corporate decisions. As of December 31, 2009, our executive officers, directors and their affiliates, in the aggregate, beneficially owned approximately 39.5% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these persons, acting together, have the ability to significantly influence the outcome of all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these persons, acting together, have the ability to significantly influence the management and affairs of our company. This concentration of ownership may harm the market price of our common stock by, among other things: • delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our Company; • causing us to enter into transactions or agreements that are not in the best interests of all stockholders; or • discouraging potential acquirers from making offers to purchase our Company. Our quarterly results and stock price may fluctuate significantly. We expect our operating results to be subject to quarterly fluctuations. The revenue we generate and our operating results will be affected by numerous factors, including: • general economic conditions; • demand for CE devices that include our text imaging solutions; • demand for our fonts and custom font design services; • delays in product shipment by our customers; • industry consolidation; • introduction, enhancement and market acceptance of text imaging solutions by us and our competitors; • price reductions by us or our competitors or changes in how text imaging solutions are priced; • the mix of text imaging solutions offered by us and our competitors; • the mix of international and U.S. revenue generated by our solutions; • financial implications of acquisitions, in particular foreign acquisitions involving different accounting standards, foreign currency issues, international tax planning requirements and the like; • timing of billings to customers on royalty reports received by us under our licensing agreements; and • our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel. For example, as a result of the royalty reports received from laser printer and other CE device manufacturers, our OEM revenue in the third quarter of 2009 was lower than the revenue in the prior 20 Table of Contents quarter. In the third quarter of 2009 our OEM revenue declined by approximately $0.6 million, compared to the prior quarter due to a decline in product shipments from our OEM customers. A substantial portion of our quarterly revenue is based on actual shipments by our customers of products incorporating our text imaging solutions in the preceding quarter, and not on contractually agreed upon minimum revenue commitments. Because the shipping of products by our customers is outside our control and difficult to predict, our ability to accurately forecast quarterly revenue is limited. Our revenue also varies from quarter to quarter as a result of variances on the timing of transactions through our e-commerce websites. In addition, under a fixed fee license agreement we have, we have agreed to certain reductions in the fee payable over a period of years. Quarterly fluctuations in our operating results may, in turn, cause the price of our stock to fluctuate substantially. We believe that quarterly comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. The loss of key members of our senior management team may prevent us from executing our business strategy. Our future success depends in large part upon the continued services of key members of our senior management team. All of our executive officers and key employees are at-will employees. Douglas J. Shaw, Chief Executive Officer, has been with the Company in various senior management roles for more than 20 years. Mr. Shaw has been critical to the overall management of the Company, as well as the development of our solutions, our culture and our strategic direction. The loss of his services or of the services of other key members of our senior management could seriously harm our ability to execute our business strategy. We also may have to incur significant costs in identifying, hiring, training and retaining replacements for key employees. We rely on highly skilled personnel, and if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel or hire qualified personnel, we may not be able to maintain our operations or grow effectively. Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals, including font designers who are recognized as leaders in the industry and experienced software engineers. These individuals have acquired specialized knowledge and skills with respect to us and our operations. These individuals can be terminated or can leave our employ at any time. Some of these individuals are consultants. If any of these individuals or a group of individuals were to terminate their employment unexpectedly or end their consulting relationship sooner than anticipated, we could face substantial difficulty in hiring qualified successors, could incur significant costs in connection with their termination and could experience a loss in productivity while any such successor obtains the necessary training and experience. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel and consultants for all areas of our organization. In this regard, if we are unable to hire and train a sufficient number of qualified employees and consultants for any reason or retain employees or consultants with the required expertise, we may not be able to implement our current initiatives or grow effectively or execute our business strategy successfully. If we have difficulty finding appropriate partnership and/or acquisition candidates, our ability to execute aspects of our strategic plan may be hindered. Selectively, we intend to pursue complementary acquisitions, strategic partnerships and third party intellectual property licenses to accelerate our time to market, penetrate new geographies and expand our offering. Execution of our strategy relies on finding and closing partnerships and/or acquisitions that fit with our business and that meet our financial expectations. To the extent that we are unable to identify appropriate opportunities and close deals on acceptable financial terms, we may face hurdles in executing portions of our strategy. 21 Table of Contents We may expand through acquisitions of other companies, which may divert our management’s attention or result in additional dilution to stockholders or use of resources that are necessary to operate other parts of our business. As part of our business strategy, we may seek to acquire businesses, products or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our products, enhance our technical capabilities or otherwise offer growth opportunities. Acquisitions could create risks for us, including: • difficulties in assimilating acquired personnel, operations and technologies; • unanticipated costs or liabilities associated with such acquisitions; • incurrence of acquisition-related costs; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • use of resources that are needed in other parts of our business; and • use of substantial portions of our available cash to consummate such acquisitions. In addition, a significant portion of the purchase price of companies we acquire may be allocated to acquired goodwill and other intangible assets, which must be assessed for impairment at least annually. In the future, if our acquisitions do not yield expected returns, we may be required to take charges to our earnings based on this impairment assessment process, which could harm our results of operations. Acquisitions could also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or in the incurrence of debt, which could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, if an acquired business fails to meet our expectations, our operating results may suffer. 22 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Investment in our Common Stock Our substantial indebtedness could affect our financing options and liquidity. We have $93.1 million of debt outstanding and an undrawn $20.0 million revolving credit facility at December 31, 2009; however, availability under the line-of-credit was reduced by approximately $4.0 million at December 31, 2009, as a result of our outstanding derivative instruments with our lender. Our indebtedness is secured by substantially all of our assets and could have important consequences to our business or the holders of our common stock, including: • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures or acquisitions; • requiring a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of the principal of and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing funds available for other purposes; • making us more vulnerable to economic downturns and limiting our ability to withstand competitive pressures; and • preventing us from paying dividends on our common stock. We are subject to restrictive debt covenants that impose operating and financial restrictions on us and could limit our ability to grow our business. Covenants in our credit facility impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions prohibit or limit, among other things, our incurrence of additional indebtedness, dividends and distributions, asset sales, some transactions with affiliates, certain acquisitions and creation of certain types of liens. These restrictions could limit our ability to take advantage of business opportunities. Furthermore, our indebtedness requires us to maintain a maximum leverage ratio and maintain a minimum level of cash through a liquidity covenant. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If we are unable to comply with the covenants, leverage and liquidity ratios in our current credit facility in the future, we may be unable to obtain waivers of non-compliance from the lenders, which would put us in default under the facility, or we may be required to pay substantial fees or penalties to the lenders. If we are in default under the facility, the rate of interest we are charged on the facility could increase, which we may be unable to pay on a continual basis. These developments could have a material adverse effect on our business. Market volatility may affect our stock price and the value of your investment. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot control, including: • announcements of new products, services or technologies, commercial relationships, acquisitions or other events by us or our competitors; • fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of similar companies; • variations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in our financial guidance or securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance; • changes in accounting principles; • sales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders; 23 Table of Contents • additions or departures of key personnel; • discussion of us or our stock price by the financial press and in online investor communities; • general market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors; and • other risks and uncertainties described in these “Risk Factors”. Market prices of technology companies have been extremely volatile. Stock prices of many technology companies have often fluctuated in a manner unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. In the past, following periods of market volatility, stockholders have often instituted securities class action litigation. If we were involved in securities litigation, it could have a substantial cost and divert resources and the attention of management from our business. Shares of our common stock are relatively illiquid. There has only been a public market for our common stock since the completion of our initial public offering in July 2007. For the quarterly period ended December 31, 2009, the average daily trading volume of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market was less than 89,000 shares. As a result of our relatively small public float, our common stock may be less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership. Among other things, trading of a relatively small volume of our common stock may have a greater impact on the trading price for our shares than would be the case if our public float were larger. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may inhibit attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. These provisions include a classified board of directors, a prohibition on actions by written consent of our stockholders and the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which limits the ability of stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock to merge or combine with us. Although we believe these provisions collectively provide for an opportunity to obtain greater value for stockholders by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if an offer rejected by our board were considered beneficial by some stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock. We currently anticipate that we will retain future earnings for the development, operation and expansion of our business and the repayment of indebtedness and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. Moreover, our credit agreement relating to our credit facility arranged by Wells Fargo Foothill, Inc., or Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, imposes restrictions on our ability to declare and pay dividends. Future sales of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline. Our stockholders that held our stock prior to our initial public offering now hold a significant percentage of our outstanding shares of common stock. Any sale by us or our current stockholders of our 24 Table of Contents common stock in the public market, or any distributions by partnership stockholders to their limited partners followed by a sale, or the perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price for our common stock. Certain of the holders of our common stock prior to our initial public offering have rights, subject to some limited conditions, to demand that we file a registration statement on their behalf to register their shares or that we include their shares in a registration statement that we file on our behalf or on behalf of other stockholders. If such demand rights are exercised pursuant to the terms and conditions of the registration rights agreement, we will incur significant expenses in connection with the filing of such registration statement. Additionally, the filing of a registration statement at the request of the stockholders may divert the attention of our senior management from our business operations. We may require additional capital, and raising additional funds by issuing securities or additional debt financing may cause dilution to existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish proprietary rights. We may need to raise additional capital in the future. We may raise additional funds through public or private equity offerings or debt financings. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our existing stockholders’ ownership will be diluted. Any new debt financing we enter into may involve covenants that restrict our operations more than our current credit facilities. These restrictive covenants would likely include limitations on additional borrowing, specific restrictions on the use of our assets as well as prohibitions on our ability to create liens, pay dividends, redeem our stock or make investments. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 