Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business depends on film production and performance. Our business depends on both the availability of suitable films for exhibition in our theatres and the success of those films in our markets. Poor performance of films, the disruption in the production of films due to events such as a strike by directors, writers or actors, a reduction in financing options for the film distributors, or a reduction in the marketing efforts of the film distributors to promote their films could have an adverse effect on our business by resulting in fewer patrons and reduced revenues. A deterioration in relationships with film distributors could adversely affect our ability to obtain commercially successful films. We rely on the film distributors to supply the films shown in our theatres. The film distribution business is highly concentrated, with six major film distributors accounting for approximately 81% of U.S. box office revenues and 47 of the top 50 grossing films during 2008. Numerous antitrust cases and consent decrees resulting from these anti-trust cases impact the distribution of films. The consent decrees bind certain major film distributors to license films to exhibitors on a theatre-by-theatre and film-by-film basis. Consequently, we cannot guarantee a supply of films by entering into long-term arrangements with major distributors. We are therefore required to negotiate licenses for each film and for each theatre. A deterioration in our relationship with any of the six major film distributors could adversely affect our ability to obtain commercially successful films and to negotiate favorable licensing terms for such films, both of which could adversely affect our business and operating results. We face intense competition for patrons and films which may adversely affect our business. The motion picture industry is highly competitive. We compete against local, regional, national and international exhibitors. We compete for both patrons and licensing of films. The competition for patrons is dependent upon such factors as the availability of popular films, the location and number of theatres and screens in a market, the comfort and quality of the theatres, levels of customer service, and pricing. The principal competitive factors with respect to film licensing include licensing terms, number of seats and screens available for a particular picture, revenue potential and the location and condition of an exhibitor’s theatres. If we are unable to attract patrons or to license successful films, our business may be adversely affected. An increase in the use of alternative or “downstream” film distribution channels and other competing forms of entertainment may reduce movie theatre attendance and limit ticket price growth. We face competition for patrons from a number of alternative film distribution channels, such as DVDs, network and syndicated television, video on-demand, pay-per-view television and downloading from the Internet. We also compete with other forms of entertainment such as concerts, amusement parks and sporting events, for our patrons’ leisure time and disposable income. A significant increase in popularity of these alternative film distribution channels and competing forms of entertainment could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our results of operations may be impacted by shrinking video release windows. Over the last decade, the average video release window, which represents the time that elapses from the date of a film’s theatrical release to the date a film is available on DVD, an important downstream market, has decreased from approximately six months to approximately four months. We cannot assure you that this release window, which is determined by the film studios, will not shrink further or be eliminated altogether, which could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. The oversupply of screens in the motion picture exhibition industry may adversely affect the performance of some of our theatres. During the period between 1996 and 2000, theatre exhibitors focused on the development of large multiplexes. The strategy of aggressively building multiplexes was adopted throughout the industry during that time and resulted in an oversupply of screens in the North American exhibition industry and negatively impacted many older multiplex theatres, leading to financial difficulty for some of the exhibitors. According to MPAA, screen counts have increased each year since 2003. If exhibitors continue to build theatres and demand for such theatres does not grow at the same rate, the performance of some of our theatres could be adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents We have substantial long-term lease and debt obligations, which may restrict our ability to fund current and future operations and that restrict our ability to enter into certain transactions. We have significant long-term debt service obligations and long-term lease obligations. As of December 31, 2008, we had $1,516.6 million in long-term debt obligations, $123.7 million in capital lease obligations and $1,839.1 million in long-term operating lease obligations. We incurred $116.1 million of interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2008. We incurred $225.6 million of rent expense for the year ended December 31, 2008 under operating leases (with terms, excluding renewal options, ranging from one to 28 years). Our substantial lease and debt obligations pose risk to you by: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations; • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our lease and debt obligations, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other corporate requirements and to pay dividends; • impeding our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate purposes; • subjecting us to the risk of increased sensitivity to interest rate increases on our variable rate debt, including our borrowings under our senior secured credit facility; and • making us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business and competitive pressures and limiting our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our industry or the economy. Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal and interest with respect to our indebtedness and service our lease obligations will depend on our ability to generate cash flow from our operations. To a certain extent, our ability to generate cash flow is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will continue to generate cash flow at current levels. If we fail to make any required payment under the agreements governing our indebtedness or fail to comply with the financial and operating covenants contained in them, we would be in default and our lenders would have the ability to require that we immediately repay our outstanding indebtedness. Any such defaults could materially impair our financial condition and liquidity. We cannot assure you that we would be able to refinance our outstanding indebtedness if debt holders require repayments as a result of a default. In addition, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our outstanding indebtedness prior to its scheduled maturity; however, we may not be able to refinance all or any portion of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we fail to make any required payment under our leases, we would be in default and our landlords would have the ability to terminate our leases and re-enter the premises. The involuntary termination of a substantial number of our leases could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. General political, social and economic conditions can adversely affect our attendance. Our results of operations are dependent on general political, social and economic conditions, and the impact of such conditions on our theatre operating costs and on the willingness of consumers to spend money at movie theatres. If consumers’ discretionary income declines as a result of an economic downturn, our operations could be adversely affected. If theatre operating costs, such as utility costs, increase due to political or economic changes, our results of 13 Table of Contents operations could be adversely affected. Political events, such as terrorist attacks, could cause people to avoid our theatres or other public places where large crowds are in attendance. Our foreign operations are subject to adverse regulations, economic instability and currency exchange risk. We have 127 theatres with 1,041 screens in twelve countries in Latin America. Brazil and Mexico represented approximately 10.7% and 4.5% of our consolidated 2008 revenues, respectively. Governmental regulation of the motion picture industry in foreign markets differs from that in the United States. Changes in regulations affecting prices, quota systems requiring the exhibition of locally-produced films and restrictions on ownership of property may adversely affect our international operations in foreign markets. Our international operations are subject to certain political, economic and other uncertainties not encountered by our domestic operations, including risks of severe economic downturns and high inflation. We also face risks of currency fluctuations, hard currency shortages and controls of foreign currency exchange and transfers abroad, all of which could have an adverse effect on the results of our international operations. We may not be able to generate additional revenues or continue to realize value from our investment in NCM. We joined Regal and AMC as founding members of NCM in 2005 and currently have an approximate 14.1% interest in NCM. We receive a monthly theatre access fee under our Exhibitor Services Agreement with NCM and we are entitled to receive mandatory quarterly distributions of excess cash from NCM. During the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2008, the Company received approximately $5.7 million and $1.8 million in other revenues from NCM, respectively and $11.5 million and $18.8 million in cash distributions from NCM, respectively. Cinema advertising is a small component of the U.S. advertising market and therefore, NCM competes with larger, established and well known media platforms such as broadcast radio and television, cable and satellite television, outdoor advertising and Internet portals. NCM also competes with other cinema advertising companies and with hotels, conference centers, arenas, restaurants and convention facilities for its non-film related events to be shown or held in our auditoriums. In-theatre advertising may not continue to attract advertisers or NCM’s in-theatre advertising format may not continue to be received favorably by the theatre-going public. If NCM is unable to continue to generate expected sales of advertising, its results of operations may be adversely affected and our investment in and distributions and revenues from NCM may be adversely impacted. We are subject to uncertainties related to digital cinema, including potentially high costs of re-equipping theatres with projectors to show digital movies. Digital cinema is still in an early conversion stage in our industry. We, along with some of our competitors, have commenced a roll-out of digital equipment for exhibiting feature films. However, significant obstacles exist that impact such a roll-out plan including the cost of digital projectors, the substantial investment in re-equipping theatres and determining who will be responsible for such costs. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain financing arrangements to fund our portion of the digital cinema roll-out nor that such financing will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. We are subject to uncertainties relating to future expansion plans, including our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates or site locations. We have greatly expanded our operations over the last decade through targeted worldwide theatre development and acquisitions. We will continue to pursue a strategy of expansion that will involve the development of new theatres and may involve acquisitions of existing theatres and theatre circuits both in the U.S. and internationally. There is significant competition for new site locations and for existing theatre and theatre circuit acquisition opportunities. As a result of such competition, we may not be able to acquire attractive site locations, existing theatres or theatre circuits on terms we consider acceptable. We cannot assure you that our expansion strategy will result in improvements to our business, financial condition, profitability, or cash flows. Further, our expansion programs may require financing above our existing borrowing capacity and internally generated funds. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such financing nor that such financing will be available to us on acceptable terms. If we do not comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and a consent order we entered into with the Department of Justice, we could be subject to further litigation. Our theatres must comply with Title III of the ADA and analogous state and local laws. Compliance with the ADA requires among other things that public facilities “reasonably accommodate” individuals with disabilities and that new construction or alterations made to “commercial facilities” conform to accessibility guidelines unless “structurally 14 Table of Contents impracticable” for new construction or technically infeasible for alterations. In March 1999, the Department of Justice, or DOJ, filed suit against us in Ohio alleging certain violations of the ADA relating to wheelchair seating arrangements in certain of our stadium-style theatres and seeking remedial action. We and the DOJ have resolved this lawsuit and a consent order was entered by the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio, Eastern Division, on November 15, 2004. Under the consent order, we are required to make modifications to wheelchair seating locations in fourteen stadium-style movie theatres and spacing and companion seating modifications in 67 auditoriums at other stadium-styled movie theatres. These modifications must be completed by November 2009. We are currently in compliance with the consent order. Upon completion of these modifications, these theatres will comply with wheelchair seating requirements, and no further modifications will be required to our other stadium-style movie theatres in the United States existing on the date of the consent order. In addition, under the consent order, the DOJ approved the seating plans for nine stadium-styled movie theatres then under construction and also created a safe harbor framework for us to construct all of our future stadium-style movie theatres. The DOJ has stipulated that all theatres built in compliance with the consent order will comply with the wheelchair seating requirements of the ADA. If we fail to comply with the ADA, remedies could include imposition of injunctive relief, fines, awards for damages to private litigants and additional capital expenditures to remedy non-compliance. Imposition of significant fines, damage awards or capital expenditures to cure non-compliance could adversely affect our business and operating results. We depend on key personnel for our current and future performance. Our current and future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and other key personnel. The loss or unavailability to us of any member of our senior management team or a key employee could significantly harm us. We cannot assure you that we would be able to locate or employ qualified replacements for senior management or key employees on acceptable terms. We are subject to impairment losses due to potential declines in the fair value of our assets. We review long-lived assets for impairment indicators on a quarterly basis or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the assets may not be fully recoverable. We assess many factors when determining whether to impair individual theatre assets, including actual theatre level cash flows, future years budgeted theatre level cash flows, theatre property and equipment carrying values, amortizing intangible assets carrying values, the age of a recently built theatre, competitive theatres in the marketplace, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, the impact of recent ticket price changes, available lease renewal options and other factors considered relevant in our assessment of impairment of individual theatre assets. Long-lived assets are evaluated for impairment on an individual theatre basis, which we believe is the lowest applicable level for which there are identifiable cash flows. The impairment evaluation is based on the estimated undiscounted cash flows from continuing use through the remainder of the theatre’s useful life. The remainder of the useful life correlates with the available remaining lease period, which includes the probability of renewal periods, for leased properties and a period of twenty years for fee owned properties. If the estimated undiscounted cash flows are not sufficient to recover a long-lived asset’s carrying value, we then compare the carrying value of the asset group (theatre) with its estimated fair value. Fair value is determined based on a multiple of cash flows, which was eight times for the evaluations performed during 2006, 2007 and the first, second and third quarters of 2008 and six and a half times for the evaluation performed during the fourth quarter of 2008. When estimated fair value is determined to be lower than the carrying value of the asset group (theatre), the asset group (theatre) is written down to its estimated fair value. Significant judgment is involved in estimating cash flows and fair value. Management’s estimates are based on historical and projected operating performance as well as recent market transactions. We evaluate goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level at least annually during the fourth quarter or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of goodwill might exceed its estimated fair value. Goodwill impairment is evaluated using a two-step approach requiring us to compute the fair value of a reporting unit and compare it with its carrying value. If the carrying value of the theatre exceeds its fair value, a second step would be performed to measure the potential goodwill impairment. Fair values are determined based on a multiple of cash flows, which was eight times for the evaluations performed during 2006 and 2007 and six and a half times for the evaluation performed during 2008. Significant judgment is involved in estimating cash flows and fair value. Management’s estimates are based on historical and projected operating performance as well as recent market transactions. Prior to January 1, 2008, we considered our theatres reporting units for purposes of evaluating goodwill for impairment. Recent changes in the organization, including changes in the structure of the executive management team, the initial public offering of common stock, the resulting changes in the level at which the management team evaluates the business on a regular basis, and the Century Acquisition that increased the size of our theatre base by approximately 25%, led 15 Table of Contents management to conclude that its U.S. regions and international countries are now more reflective of how we manage and operate our business. Accordingly, the U.S. regions and international countries represent the appropriate reporting units for purposes of evaluating goodwill for impairment. Consequently, effective January 1, 2008, management changed the reporting unit to sixteen regions in the U.S. and each of eight countries internationally (Honduras, El Salvador, Nicaragua, Costa Rica and Panama are considered one reporting unit) from approximately four hundred theatres. The goodwill impairment test performed during December 2007 that resulted in the recording of impairment charges during the year ended December 31, 2007 reflected the final calculation utilizing theatres as reporting units. Tradename intangible assets are tested for impairment at least annually during the fourth quarter or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. We estimate the fair value of our tradenames by applying an estimated market royalty rate that could be charged for the use of our tradename to forecasted future revenues, with an adjustment for the present value of such royalties. If the estimated fair value is less than the carrying value, the tradename intangible asset is written down to the estimated fair value. We recorded asset impairment charges, including goodwill impairment charges, of $28.5 million, $86.6 million and $113.5 for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. We cannot assure you that additional impairment charges will not be required in the future, and such charges may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Notes 11 and 12 to the consolidated financial statements. Our results of operations vary from period to period based upon the quantity and quality of the motion pictures that we show in our theatres. Our results of operations vary from period to period based upon the quantity and quality of the motion pictures that we show in our theatres. The major film distributors generally release the films they anticipate will be most successful during the summer and holiday seasons. Consequently, we typically generate higher revenues during these periods. Due to the dependency on the success of films released from one period to the next, results of operations for one period may not be indicative of the results for the following period or the same period in the following year. The interests of Madison Dearborn Partners (“MDP”) may not be aligned with yours. We are controlled by an affiliate of MDP. MDP beneficially owns approximately 47% of our common stock and under a director nomination agreement, are entitled to designate nominees for five members of our board of directors. Accordingly, MDP has influence and effectively controls our corporate and management policies and determines, without the consent of our other stockholders, the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including potential mergers or acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions. MDP could take other actions that might be desirable to MDP but not to other stockholders. Our ability to pay dividends may be limited or otherwise restricted. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by our status as a holding company and the terms of our indentures, our senior secured credit facility and certain of our other debt instruments, which restrict our ability to pay dividends and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to pay dividends, directly or indirectly, to us. Under our debt instruments, we may pay a cash dividend up to a specified amount, provided we have satisfied certain financial covenants in, and are not in default under, our debt instruments. Furthermore, certain of our foreign subsidiaries currently have a deficit in retained earnings which prevents them from declaring and paying dividends from those subsidiaries. The declaration of future dividends on our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including our results of operations, financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, limitations in our debt agreements and legal requirements. 16 Table of Contents Provisions in our corporate documents and certain agreements, as well as Delaware law, may hinder a change of control. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, could discourage unsolicited proposals to acquire us, even though such proposals may be beneficial to you. These provisions include: • authorization of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval; • a board of directors classified into three classes of directors with the directors of each class, subject to shorter initial terms for some directors, having staggered, three-year terms; • provisions regulating the ability of our stockholders to nominate directors for election or to bring matters for action at annual meetings of our stockholders; and • provisions of Delaware law that restrict many business combinations and provide that directors serving on classified boards of directors, such as ours, may be removed only for cause. Certain provisions of the 9 3/4% senior discount notes indenture and the senior secured credit facility may have the effect of delaying or preventing future transactions involving a “change of control.” A “change of control” would require us to make an offer to the holders of our 9 3/4% senior discount notes to repurchase all of the outstanding notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount outstanding plus accrued unpaid interest to the date of the purchase. A “change of control” would also be an event of default under our senior secured credit facility. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. There can be no assurance that an active trading market for our common stock will continue. The securities markets have recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations and the market prices of the securities of companies have been particularly volatile. This market volatility, as well as general economic or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our common stock regardless of our operating performance. In addition, our operating results could be below the expectations of investment analysts and investors and, in response, the market price of our common stock may decrease significantly and prevent investors from reselling their shares of our common stock at or above a market price that is favorable to other stockholders. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the subject of securities class action litigation. If we were the subject of securities class action litigation, it could result in substantial costs, liabilities and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. Future sales of our common stock may adversely affect the prevailing market price. If a large number of shares of our common stock is sold in the open market, or if there is a perception that such sales will occur, the trading price of our common stock could decrease. In addition, the sale of these shares could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional common stock. As of December 31, 2008, we have an aggregate of 191,164,635 shares of our common stock authorized but unissued and not reserved for specific purposes. In general, we may issue all of these shares without any action or approval by our stockholders. We may issue shares of our common stock in connection with acquisitions. As of December 31, 2008, we had 108,835,365 shares of our common stock outstanding. Of these shares, approximately 29,864,709 shares are freely tradable. The remaining shares of our common stock are “restricted securities” as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Restricted securities may not be resold in a public distribution except in compliance with the registration requirements of the Securities Act or pursuant to an exemption therefrom, including the exemptions provided by Regulation S and Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act. We cannot predict whether substantial amounts of our common stock will be sold in the open market in anticipation of, or following, any divestiture by any of our existing stockholders, our directors or executive officers of their shares of common stock. 17 Table of Contents Currently, there are 19,100,000 shares of our common stock reserved for issuance under our 2006 Long Term Incentive Plan, of which 6,139,670 shares of common stock are issuable upon exercise of options outstanding as of December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2008, 5,809,343 of these options outstanding were exercisable. The sale of shares issued upon the exercise of stock options could further dilute your investment in our common stock and adversely affect our stock price. The Impairment or Insolvency of Other Financial Institutions Could Adversely Affect Us. We have exposure to different counterparties with regard to our interest rate swap agreements. These transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparties to such agreements. We also have exposure to financial institutions used as depositories of our corporate cash balances. If our counterparties and financial institutions become impaired or insolvent, this could have a material impact on our results of operations or impair our ability to access our cash. 