D. RISK FACTORS We believe that the occurrence of any one or some combination of the following factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to our Business We operate in a heavily regulated industry, which can harm our results of operations. A substantial part of our operations is subject to the Israeli Communications Law, 1982, the Israeli Wireless Telegraph Ordinance (New Version), 1972, the regulations promulgated thereunder and the license for the provision of cellular services that we received from the Ministry of Communications in accordance with the Communications Law. The interpretation and implementation of the Communications Law, Wireless Telegraph Ordinance and regulations and the provisions of our general license, as well as our other licenses, are not certain and disagreements have arisen and may arise in the future between the Ministry of Communications and us. The Communications Law and regulations thereunder grant the Ministry of Communications extensive regulatory and supervisory authority with regard to our activities, as well as the authority to impose substantial sanctions in the event of a breach of our licenses or the applicable laws and regulations. In the event that we materially violate the terms of our licenses, the Ministry of Communications has the authority to revoke them. Our operations are subject to the regulatory and supervisory authority of additional Israeli regulators which includes also the authority to impose criminal and administrative sanctions against us including, among others, the Ministry of Environmental Protection; the Anti Trust Commissionaire; the Ministry of Justice and the Law, Information and Technology Authority at the Ministry of Justice - in charge of issues such as data bases and privacy protection; the Fair Trade Authority (at the Ministry of Industry and Commerce). We have witnessed increased activity by some of these regulators in 2010 and expect this trend to continue. Increased supervision and regulation of our activities could limit our freedom to conduct our business and harm our results of operations. Our general license is valid until February 2022. It may be extended for additional six-year periods upon our request to the Ministry of Communications and confirmation from the Ministry of Communications that we have complied with the provisions of our license and the applicable law, have continuously invested in the improvement of our service and network and have demonstrated the ability to do so in the future. Our other licenses are also limited in time. However, our licenses may not be extended when necessary, or, if extended, 10 Table of Contents the extensions may be granted on terms that are not favorable to us. In addition, the Ministry of Communications has modified and may modify our licenses without our consent and in a manner that could limit our freedom to conduct our business and harm our results of operations. Possible changes to our license and legislation which would require us to change our calling plans and information systems frequently or in a timetable we cannot meet, can increase the risk of noncompliance with our license or violation of such legislation and our exposure to lawsuits and regulatory sanctions. Further, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by new legislation and decisions by our regulators that: · reduce tariffs, including interconnect tariffs, roaming tariffs, or otherwise intervene in the pricing policies for our products and services, including by requiring us to offer a "limited credit" service to our post-paid customers, by requiring us to offer "data only" services and intervening in pricing and terms of such services, and by prohibiting subscription fees for certain services. The reduction of interconnect tariffs that came into force in January 1, 2011, is expected to have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. See "Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview – Government Regulations – Tariff Supervision" for additional details; · increase the number of competitors in the cellular market, including by awarding cellular licenses to additional UMTS operators and Mirs (following a UMTS spectrum tender for two additional UMTS operators published by the Ministry of Communications in September 2010), to additional mobile virtual network operators or MVNO and licenses for the use of our network by competing technologies, such as Voice over Boradband over Cellular, or VoC; awarding such competitors certain benefits and leniencies not available to existing cellular operators, including through requiring us to allow usage of our network by such competitors and at unfavorable terms to us; limit our ability to compete, including by limiting our ability to develop our network and by preferring new and/or small competitors in the allocation of frequencies, including tho se designated to the 4G of cellular services. See "Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview" under "Competition" and under "Government Regulations – Mobile Virtual Network Operator" and - Additional UMTS Operators " for additional details; · impose new safety or health-related requirements; · impose additional restrictions or requirements with respect to the construction and operation of cell sites or the network, including as a result of MVNO hosting services, national roaming and site sharing; · impose restrictions on the provision of services or products we currently provide or regulate or otherwise intervene with the terms under which we advertise and market them and provide them to our subscribers, including in respect of existing agreements; · impose restrictions on the provision of cellular internet services, including by providing customers their choice of ISP services provider; 11 Table of Contents · limit or otherwise intervene with the services or products that we may sell; · set higher service standards; or · impose a stricter policy with respect to privacy protection, such as with regard to data protection, collection or usage of data for marketing activities. See “Item 4. Information on the Company – B – Business Overview – Government Regulations ― Our Principal License”. If we fail to compensate for lost revenues, increased expenses or additional investments resulting from past or future legislative or regulatory changes with alternative sources of income or otherwise, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to obtain permits to construct and operate cell sites. We depend on our network of cell sites to maintain and enhance network coverage for our subscribers. In addition, where necessary, we provide certain subscribers with bi-directional amplifiers, also known as “repeaters,” to remedy weak signal reception in indoor locations. Some of these repeaters are located outdoors on rooftops. We also deploy and operate microwave sites as part of our transmission network. The construction and operation of these various facilities are highly regulated and require us to obtain various consents and permits. See “Item 4.B – Business Overview - Government Regulations - Permits for Cell Site Construction” for additional details. We have experienced difficulties in obtaining some of these consents and permits, particularly in obtaining building permits for cell sites from local planning and building authorities. As of December 31, 2010, we operated a small portion of our cell sites without building permits or applicable exemptions. Although we are in the process of seeking to obtain building permits or to modify our cell sites in order to satisfy applicable exemptions, we may not be able to obtain all the necessary permits or make the necessary modifications. Approximately 31% of our cell sites operate without building permits in reliance on an exemption from the requirement to obtain a building permit, mainly for radio access devices. Our reliance on the exemption for radio access devices had been challenged by local planning and building authorities in the courts and in May 2008 the District Court of Tel-Aviv-Jaffa, in its capacity as court of appeals, ruled that our and other cellular operators’ devices do not meet the exemption’s requirements and therefore the exemption may not be relied upon by us and by other cellular operators. We and other cellular operators appealed against this ruling to the Supreme Court. Additionally, in November 2008, the District Court of Central Region, in its capacity as court of appeals, ruled that the exemption does not apply to radio access d evices, if the rooftop, on which those devices are located, is at the same level as a residence or other building that is regularly frequented by people. The exemption is also the subject of two petitions filed with the Supreme Court. In September 2009, the Attorney General concluded that the application of the exemption does not balance properly the different interests involved and therefore cannot continue unchanged. According to the Attorney General's opinion, the Israeli Minister of Interior Affairs submitted a draft regulations for approval by the Economy Committee of the Israeli Parliament in March 2010. The draft regulations includes significant limitations on the 12 Table of Contents ability to construct radio access devices based on such exemption, including a limitation of the number of such radio access devices to 5% of the total number of cell sites constructed or to be constructed with a building permit in a certain area during a certain period (which will render the construction of radio access devices based on the exemption practically impossible), and to circumstances in which a request for a building permit for the radio access device was filed and no resolution has been granted within the timeframe set in the regulations. In September 2010, the Israeli Supreme Court issued an interim order prohibiting further construction of radio access devices in cellular networks in reliance on the exemption. The interim order, issued pursuant to the Israeli Attorney General's request, will be in effect until the enactment of the proposed regulations or other decision by the court. A further decision of the Supreme Court in February 2011, states that the order will not apply to the replacement of existing radio access devices under certain conditions. Other appeals relating to the exemption, including as to the requirement to obtain an extraordinary usage permit, are still under consideration in the District Court and other similar challenges, as well as other claims asserting that those cell sites and other facilities do not meet other legal requirements continue. Further, in July 2008 and again in July 2009, an amendment to the Communications Law proposing to annul the exemption passed the preliminary phase of enactment in the Israeli parliament. In addition, we may be operating a significant number of our cell sites in a manner that is not fully compatible with the building permits issued for these cell sites which may, in some cases, also constitute grounds for termination of their lease agreements or claims for breach of such agreements. Our rooftop microwave sites and repeaters operate in reliance upon an exemption from the requirement to obtain a building permit. Substantially all of our outdoor microwave sites are rooftops. It is unclear whether other types of repeaters require a building permit. Our reliance on an exemption from the requirement to obtain building permits for repeaters has not, to date, been considered by the courts. An annulment of or inability to rely on or substantial limitation of the exemption could adversely affect our existing networks and networks build-out, particularly given the objection of some local planning and building authorities to grant due permits where required, could have a negative impact on our ability to obtain environmental permits for these sites, and could negatively affect our ability to continue to market our products and services effectively. This may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. See “Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview - Government Regulations— Permits for Cell Site Construction" for additional details regarding the exemption. Operation of a cell site or other facility without a building permit or not in accordance with the permit or other legal requirements may result in the issuance of a demolition order for the cell site or other facility or the bringing of criminal charges against us and our officers and directors. Certain of our cell sites have been subject to demolition orders. In addition, criminal charges have been brought against us and our officers and directors in connection with cell sites that were alleged to have been constructed or used without the required permits or not in accordance with the permits granted. As of December 31, 2010, 19 criminal and administrative proceedings are outstanding; a demolition order has been granted with respect to two cell sites while the remaining 17 proceedings are pending further litigation. Pursuant to the Israeli Non-Ionizing Radiation Law, 2006, the granting or renewal of an operating permit by the Commissioner of Environmental Radiation at the Ministry of 13 Table of Contents Environmental Protection of Israel for a cell site or other facility is subject to the receipt of a building permit or the facility being exempt from the requirement to obtain a building permit. Should we fail to obtain building permits for our cell sites or other facilities, including in the event that our reliance upon an exemption from the requirement to obtain building permits for these cell sites and other facilities is found invalid, the Commissioner of Environmental Radiation at the Ministry of Environmental Protection will not grant or renew our operating permits for those cell sites and other facilities. Since October 2007, the Commissioner of Environmental Protection took the position that he will not grant or renew operating permits to radio access devices, where the local planning and building committee’s enginee r objected to our reliance upon the said exemption for radio access devices. For reasons not related to radiation hazards, we have not received environmental permits for a few cell sites, primarily due to building and planning issues, such as objections by local planning and building committee's engineers to our reliance on the exemption from obtaining building permits for radio access devices. Operating a cell site or a facility without an operating permit could subject us and our officers and directors to criminal, administrative and civil liability. The Non-Ionizing Radiation Law further grants the Commissioner authority to issue eviction orders if a cell site or other facility operates in conflict with its permit, and it imposes criminal sanctions on a company and its directors and officers for violations of the law. Failure to comply with the Non-Ionizing Radiation Law or the terms of a permit can lead to revocation or suspension of the permit, as well as to withholding the grant of permits to additional cell sites of that operator. Should any of our officers or directors be found guilty of an offence, although this has not occurred to date, they may face monetary penalties and a term of imprisonment. Our cell sites may be the subject of demolition orders, we may be required to relocate cell sites to less favorable locations or stop operation of cell sites which could negatively affect the extent, quality and capacity of our network coverage, all of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A draft amendment to the Non-Ionizing Radiation Regulations published in December 2008, was submitted in October 2010 for approval by the Internal Affairs Committee of the Israeli Parliament. In addition, a bill amending the Non-Ionizing Radiation Law so as to prohibit the grant of permits under such law for the construction and operation of cell sites situated within 75 meters from senior citizens' institutions, education institutions, shelters and hospitals, passed a preliminary stage of enactment in the Israeli Parliament in October 2010. According to the bill, such permits granted prior to the enactment of the bill shall expire within 6 months from its effective date. If restrictions similar to those included in a previous draft of the Non-Ionizing Radiation Regulations (which included additional restrictions in relation to the op eration of cell sites and other facilities) or the proposed change to the Non-Ionizing Radiation Law are subsequently adopted, they will, among other things, limit our ability to construct new cell sites (and if applied to existing cell sites, it will also limit our ability to renew operating permits for many of our existing cell sites), will adversely affect our existing networks and networks build out, specifically in urban areas, and could adversely affect our results of operations. See “Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview - Government Regulations— Permits for Cell Site Construction" for additional details regarding a proposed amendment to the Non-Ionizing Radiation Law, seeking to cancel the requirement to obtain the Minister of Communications' approval to the Non-Ionizing Radiation Regulations, where such regulations may have a substantial and direct effect on the monetary burden imposed on the communication market. 14 Table of Contents The Israeli National Zoning Plan 36, or the Plan, which regulates cell site construction and operation is in the process of being changed. Current proposed changes impose additional restrictions and requirements on the construction and operation of cell sites. In June 2010, the proposed changes were approved by the Israeli National Council for Planning and Building and submitted for the approval of the Government of Israel. If the proposed changes are approved by the Israeli Government they will harm our ability to construct new cell sites, make the process of obtaining building permits for the construction and operation of cell sites more cumbersome and costly, could adversely affect our existing network and may delay the future deployment of our network and could negatively affect the extent, quality and capacity of our network cove rage and our ability to continue to market our products and services effectively, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Several local planning and building authorities are claiming that Israeli cellular operators may not receive building permits, in reliance on the current National Zoning Plan 36, for cell sites operating in frequencies not specifically detailed in the frequencies charts attached to the Plan. In a number of cases, these authorities have refused to provide a building permit for such new cell sites, arguing that the Plan does not apply to such cell sites and that building permits for such cell sites should be sought through other processes (which are longer and cumbersome), such as an application for extraordinary usage or under existing local specific zoning plans. Since June 2002, following the approval of the Plan, building permits for our cell sites (where required) have been issued in reliance on the Plan. The current proposed draft amendment to the Plan covers all new cell sites requiring a building permit, independently of the frequencies in which they operate. Most of our cell sites and many cell sites operated by other operators operate in frequencies not specifically detailed in the Plan. If we are unable to obtain or rely on exemptions from obtaining or renew building or other consents and permits for our existing cell sites or other facilities, we will be required to demolish or relocate these cell sites and facilities. Our inability to relocate sites or other facilities in a timely manner or to construct and operate new sites or other facilities (if we are unable to obtain the necessary consents and permits or rely on the exemption from the requirement to obtain a building permit), could adversely affect our existing network, resulting in the loss of subscribers, prevent us from meeting the network coverage and quality requirements contained in our license (which may lead to its revocation) and adversely impact our network build-out, all of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operat ions and financial condition. We may be required to indemnify certain local planning and building committees in respect of claims against them. Under the Israeli Planning and Building Law, 1965, by approving a building plan, local planning and building committees may be held liable to compensate for depreciation of properties included in or neighboring the approved plan. In January 2006, the law was amended to require an applicant, as a precondition to obtaining a cell site construction permit from a planning and building committee, to provide a letter to the committee indemnifying it for possible depreciation claims. As of December 31, 2010, we have provided approximately 323 indemnification letters to local planning and building committees. Calls upon our indemnification letters may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may also decide to demolish or 15 Table of Contents relocate existing cell sites to less favorable alternatives and to construct new cell sites in alternative, less suitable locations or not at all, due to the obligation to provide indemnification. As a result, our existing service may be impaired or the expansion of our network coverage could be limited. In addition, local planning and building committees have sought to join cellular operators, including us, as defendants in depreciation claims made against them even though indemnification letters were not provided. We were joined as defendants in a small number of cases. In February 2007, the Israeli Minister of Interior Affairs extended the limitation period within which depreciation claims may be brought under the Israeli Planning and Building Law from three years from approval of a building plan, to the later of one year from receiving a building permit for a cell site under National Zoning Plan 36 and six months from the construction of a cell site. The Minister retains the general authority to extend such period further. This extension of the limitation period increases our potential exposure to depreciation claims. In addition, should the Planning and Building Law be construed or amended to allow a longer period of limitation for depreciation claims than the current limitation period set in that law, our potential exposure to depreciation claims would increase. Alleged health risks relating to non-ionizing radiation generated from cell sites and cellular telecommunications devices may harm our prospects. Handsets, accessories and various types of cell sites are known to be sources of non-ionizing radiation emissions and are the subject of a public debate in Israel. While, to the best of our knowledge, the handsets that we market comply with the applicable legislation that relate to acceptable “specific absorption rate,” or SAR, levels, we rely on the SAR levels published by the manufacturers of these handsets and do not perform independent inspections of the SAR levels of these handsets. As the manufacturers’ approvals refer to a prototype handset, we have no information as to the actual level of SAR of the handsets throughout the lifecycle of the handsets, including in the case of handset repair. See also “Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview - Government Regulations - Handsets” ;. Recommendations by the Israeli Ministry of Health published in July 2008, to take precautionary measures when using cellular handsets, have increased the concerns of the Israeli public. The Ministry of Health indicated that although the findings of the international study on whether cellular phone usage increases the risk of developing certain tumors were not yet finalized, partial results of several of the studies were published, and while these studies did not demonstrate a connection between cellular phone exposure and tumor growth, a relationship between prolonged cellular phone usage and tumor development was observed in some of these studies. Several bills, aimed at increasing awareness of the possible risks of cellular phones usage, reducing usage thereof and introducing precautionary measures are awaiting deliberation by the Israeli Parliament. Health concerns regarding cell sites have already caused us difficulties in obtaining permits for cell site construction and obtaining or renewing leases for cell sites and even resulted in unlawful sabotage of a small number of cell sites and have further prompted a bill prohibiting the grant of permits under the Non-Ionizing Law for the construction and operation of cell sites, situated within 75 meters from senior citizens' institutions, education institutions, shelters and hospitals. See "We may not be able to obtain permits to construct and operate cell sites" above for additional details. In July 2009, the Ministries of Interior Affairs and Environmental Protection adopted a position (as part of the recommendations 16 Table of Contents made by an inter-ministry committee established to examine the appropriateness of future application of the exemption from obtaining building permits for radio access devices) that, with respect to radiation safety, cell sites constructed pursuant to a building permit are preferable to radio access devices and that utilizing a cellular network to provide advanced services which can be provided through a landline network, is unjustified in light of the preventive care principle set forth in the Israeli Non-Ionizing Radiation Law. Further, in February 2011, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Environmental Protection notified the Ministry of Communications they will object to the construction of 4G networks in Israel, unless the need and justification for 4G services are first discussed among the Ministries, in light of the preventive care principle. If health concerns regarding non-ionizing radiation increase further, or if adverse findings in studies of non-ionizing radiation are published or if non-ionizing radiation levels are found to be higher than the standards set for handsets and cell sites, consumers may be discouraged from using cellular handsets and regulators may impose additional restrictions on the construction and operation of cell sites or handset usage. As a result, we may experience increased difficulty in constructing and operating cell sites and obtaining leases for new cell site locations or renewing leases for existing locations (although so far, in total we have experienced renewal problems with approximately 7% of our cell site leases each year); we may be exposed to property depreciation claims ; we may lose revenues due to decreasing usage of our services; we may be subject to increased regulatory costs; and we may be subject to health-related claims for substantial sums. We have not obtained insurance for these potential claims. See “Item 8. Financial Information - A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information – Legal Proceedings—Purported class actions” for additional details on two purported class actions filed against us in that respect and an additional purported class action filed against us for not obtaining such insurance. An adverse outcome or settlement of any health - related litigation against us or any other provider of cellular services could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or prospects. We face intense competition in all aspects of our business. The Israeli cellular telephone market is highly competitive. We compete for subscribers with three other cellular operators. While we enjoy the largest market share, estimated to be 34.5% as of December 31, 2010, two of our competitors, Partner and Pelephone, enjoy estimated market shares of 32% and 29% respectively, with MIRS Motorola Communications Ltd., or MIRS, estimated to have a market share of 4.3%. The current competitive pressure in the Israeli market results primarily from the highly penetrated state of the market. See also “Item 4. Information on the Company - B. Business Overview - The Telecommunications Industry in Israel”. This means that market growth is limited and cellular operators compete intensely to retain their own subscribers and attract those of their competitors. The competition in our m arket has been increasing following the launch of Pelephone's UMTS/HSPA network in 2009 and various regulatory and other changes to the market and has further increased following the compulsory reduction of early termination fees in calling plans which include a commitment to a predefined period, or Early Termination Fees, to a negligible amount as of February 1, 2011, as it eliminates the transfer barrier between operators. This has resulted in materially increased churn rate and increased subscriber acquisition and retention costs due to materially increased recruitment of subscribers since February 1, 2011. Further, competition changes as cellular operators enter into additional communication markets, such as broadband and landline telephony and in light of the acquisitions in the Israeli communication market (as detailed below). Any of the following 17 Table of Contents developments in our market is expected to increase competition further and the increasing competition may result in a material increase in churn rate, loss of market share, increased subscriber acquisition and retention costs and ultimately reduced profitability for us: · a shift of outgoing calls to landline and callback alternatives, following the reduction of interconnect tariff, as it decreases the size of the market in which we compete; · the entry into the Israeli cellular market by additional operators or MVNOs (or dealers with leading brand names marketing the services of another operator) or the launch of a UMTS network by Mirs (as it would strengthen Mirs's ability to compete in the provision of inbound and outbound roaming services as well as improve its competitive position in the market) could increase competition and thus may have a material adverse effect on our revenues. To date eight entities were granted MVNO licenses (of which two have entered into a hosting agreement with Pelephone and are expected to commence operations in the second half of 2011), and the Ministry of Communications is expected to grant additional MVNO licenses. For additional details see "Item 4. Information on the Company - B. Business Overview – The Communications Market in Israel - Cellular Se rvices". The Ministry of Communications is further expected to grant additional UMTS licenses, following the completion, if completed, of a UMTS spectrum tender for two additional UMTS operators, allowing participation only to new operators and Mirs, published by the Ministry of Communications in September 2010 and expected to be completed during the first half of 2011. The winners will be awarded some leniencies in the construction of their network and will be able to use national roaming through existing cellular operators to provide service. See "Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview" under "Competition" and under "Government Regulations – Mobile Virtual Network Operator" and "Additional UMTS Operators" for additional details; · Pelephone’s offering of certain services jointly with its parent company, Bezeq, the incumbent landline operator; although Bezeq and Pelephone may not currently offer integrated or combined packages of cellular and landline telephone and other telecommunication services, . in February 2011 the Ministry of Communications has published a hearing in relation to Bezeq's future offering of certain services jointly with its subsidiaries, provided that a similar bundle is made available by a competitor of Bezeq (such as a landline and cellular bundle) and subject to each of the services in Bezeq's bundle being available for sale separately. Further, in March 2011, a public committee appointed by the Ministry of Communications in March 2010 to examine Bezeq's tariffs structure and tariffs for landline wholesale services, published the recommendations it is considering , for public comments, including recommendations to require landline operators who hold a general license (such as Bezeq) to allow usage of their infrastructure by other operators and annul the structural limitations in the Bezeq group provided a wholesale market of landline services is available for other operators, (including through the Israeli Electric Company initiative). If such recommendations are ultimately adopted, they will allow Pelephone to offer integrated packages with Bezeq and other subsidiaries of Bezeq (other than multichannel television 18 Table of Contents services) without limitations. See "Item 4. Information on The Company – B. Business Overview - Competition"; · increased usage of competing technologies, applications and services, allowing usage of our network with or without an operator, such as VoC or other technologies, such as WiFi, more so following the increased usage of smart phones. To date, VoC services are available under three trial licenses granted by the Ministry of Communications and using VoC based software on smart phones. The Ministry of Communications has recently published a hearing in relation to VoC license, under which cellular operators will be required to provide data only services, including at lower speed rates and price them by speed rate. Under a recent amendment to the Communication Law, any limitation or blocking of internet based services or applications is forbidden, including by differentiating pricing; · the expansion of the "Open Garden" content provision offerings, as it may transform the cellular operator, previously the provider of content to its subscribers, into one of many content providers competing to provide content to the operator's own subscribers; The Open Garden international trend is facilitated by technological changes allowing high speed internet surfing and supporting handsets and the entry of international media providers and handsets manufacturers into the cellular content provision market. Further, expansion of arrangements such as that introduced by Apple, in which subscribers can purchase content only through their handset manufacturer's store, could adversely effect our content revenues. See "Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview" under " Competition"; · new initiatives and combinations of services following the acquisitions in the Israeli communication market, as it will allow some of the players to offer quadruple and even quintuple service bundles to existing customers in each of their previously separated platforms as well to new customers, such as the MIRS – Hot combination and the Partner – Smile acquisition. This may also lead to a change in the regulation applied to Bezeq and to the offering of bundles by Bezeq and its subsidiaries. For details see "Item 4. Information on The Company – B. Business Overview - The Telecommunications Industry in Israel - Cellular Services" and B. Business Overview – Competition"; and · a proposed amendment to the Israeli Restrictive Trade Practices Law, 1988, which passed the preliminary phase of enactment in the Israeli parliament in November 2010 includes: (1) giving the Director General of the Israeli Antitrust Authority the power to determine that certain entities in a specific market act as oligopoly, based on the existence of conditions for effective competition (or lack thereof) in the relevant market rather than on the actual lack (or low level) of competition; (2) giving the Director General of the Antitrust Authority the power to distinguish between an oligopoly and a monopoly allowing the Director General to give instructions to all or some of the participants of an oligopolic market, in order, among others, to maintain or increase the competition level among the participants, including the authority to issue orders to re move or to ease entry or transfer barriers, to cease a participant's activity, or otherwise regulate the activities of such oligopoly. If the Director General decides that the Israeli cellular market is oligopolistic, the 19 Table of Contents Director General may take measures which could limit our freedom to manage our business, increase the competitive pressures that we face and adversely affect our results of operations. We could be subject to legal claims due to the inability of our information systems to fully support our calling plans. In order to attract and retain the maximum number of subscribers in our highly competitive market, we design specific calling plans to suit the preferences of various subscriber groups. We require sophisticated information systems to record accurately subscriber usage pursuant to the particular terms of each subscriber’s plan as well as accurate database management and operation of a very large number of calling plans. From time to time, we have detected some discrepancies between certain calling plans and the information processed by our internal information systems, such as applying an incorrect rebate or applying an incorrect tariff to a service resulting in a higher charge. We have invested substantial resources to refine and improve our information and control systems and ensure that our new calling plans are app ropriately processed by our information systems; we have also taken steps to remedy the identified discrepancies and have established reserves where the discrepancies are quantifiable. Despite our substantial investments, we may experience discrepancies in the future due to the multiplicity of our plans and the scope of the processing tasks. Further, while we invest substantial efforts in monitoring our employees and third-party distributors and dealers that market our services, it is possible that some of our employees, distributors or dealers may offer terms and make (or fail to make) representations to existing and prospective subscribers that do not fully conform to applicable law, our license or the terms of our calling plans. As a result of these discrepancies, we may be subject to subscribers’ claims, including class action claims, and substantial sanctions for breach of our license or the applicable laws and regulations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations. Further, changes to our general license and relevant legislation require ongoing changes to our operations, calling plans and supporting information systems. Such changes increase the risk that our employees, distributors and dealers and our information systems will not fully support such changes. We are exposed to, and currently are engaged in, a variety of legal proceedings, including class action lawsuits. We provide services to millions of subscribers on a daily basis. As a result of the scope and magnitude of our operations we are subject to the risk of a large number of lawsuits, including class action suits by consumers and consumer organizations, with respect to billing and other practices. These actions are costly to defend and could result in significant judgments against us. The Israeli Class Actions Law, 2006 and the 2005 amendment to the Israeli Consumer Protection Law, 1981 include provisions that expand the causes of action for which a class of litigants may bring suit, including with regard to any damages allegedly incurred prior to the effective date of these laws, reducing the minimal requirements for certification of a class action lawsuit and reducing the qualifications required to be a lead plaintiff in a class action lawsuit. Following these changes, an increased number of requests to certify lawsuits as class actions were approved by Israeli courts. These laws have increased and may continue to increase the number of requests for certification of class actions against us, our legal exposure and our legal costs in defending against such suits, which as a result may materially and adversely affect our financial results. Other legislative amendments, such as the amendment to the Communications Law, regulating "spam" and other amendments to the Consumer Protection Law, stricter policy by regulators, 20 Table of Contents as well as the growing tendency of adopting comprehensive and burdensome regulation for the cellular market, also encourage the filing of lawsuits, including purported class actions, against us. During 2010, the number of purported class actions filed against us has tripled in comparison with 2009 with more lawsuits seeking compensation for non-monetary damages. Currently, we are engaged in dozens of purported class action suits as a defendant, many of which are for substantial amounts. In 2009, two requests to certify lawsuits as class actions against us were approved and shall be tried as class actions. We have settled one and the other one continues to be tried in the District Court as a class action. Should this class action succeed or other requests to certify lawsuits against us as class actions are approved and s ucceed, this may have a material adverse affect on our financial results. For a summary of certain material legal proceedings against us, see “Item 8 – Financial Information - A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information –Legal Proceedings”. We are subject to the risk of intellectual property rights claims against us, including in relation to music, music-related or other content services we purchase from third party content providers. These claims may require us to initiate or defend protracted and costly litigation, regardless of the merits of these claims. If any of these claims succeed, we may be forced to pay damages or may be required to obtain licenses for the infringing product or service. If we cannot obtain all necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, we may be forced to stop using or selling the products and services. We may face claims of having been in violation of the law and our license requiring the implementation of number portability and the terms of our license governing the method of charging for SMS messages. As a result of an amendment to the Communications Law in March 2005, cellular and landline telephone operators were required to implement number portability by September 1, 2006. Number portability permits subscribers to change to another network operator without having to change their telephone numbers. Despite efforts to introduce the requisite technology and coordinate the transition to number portability by September 1, 2006, no cellular or landline operator had implemented number portability by that date and Number portability was implemented on December 2, 2007. See "Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview – Competition” for additional details. In 2005, our license was amended to regulate charging for SMS messages sent outside our network, which, under one interpretation of the amendment, may lead to claims of our not being in compliance with our license. We have fulfilled the license requirements, even under this potential interpretation, with respect to substantially all SMS messages sent to subscribers outside our network. However, if such interpretation of the amendment prevails, we may face claims of having been late in implementing this amendment with respect to all such SMS messages. We had notified the Ministry of Communications of our technological inability to fully implement the amendment, if it is so interpreted. The Ministry of Communications had proposed an amendment to our license to resolve this problem, which we believe is unsatisfactory because it does not change the charging criteria but mainly proposes certain customer notification requirements. 21 Table of Contents We rely on interconnecting telecommunications providers and could be adversely affected if these providers fail to provide these services without disruption and on a consistent basis. Our ability to provide commercially viable cellular telephone services depends upon our ability to interconnect with the telecommunications networks of landline, cellular telephone and international operators in Israel in order to complete calls between our subscribers and parties on a landline or other cellular telephone network, as well as third parties abroad. All landline, cellular telephone and international operators in Israel are required to provide interconnection to, and not to discriminate against, any other licensed telecommunications operator in Israel. We have no control over the quality and timing of the investment and maintenance activities that are necessary for these entities to provide us with interconnection to their respective telecommunications networks. The implementation of number portability requires us to rely further on other providers, since our ability to implement number portability, provide our services and our basic ability to port numbers between operators are dependent on the manner of number portability implementation by interconnecting local operators. The failure of these or other telecommunications providers to provide reliable interconnections to us on a consistent basis could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our operations are dependant on complex technology Our operations are dependant on a number of complex technological systems. The occurrence of malfunctions in such complex and ever changing and expanding systems is inevitable. A malfunction in any of our systems which severely impacts our ability to provide products and services to our customers, may result in loss of revenues to us, may adversely impact our brand perception and expose us to legal claims, all of which may adversely affect our results of operations. See “Item 8 – Financial Information - A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information –Legal Proceedings” for details of nine purported class actions filed against us in regards to a major network malfunction we suffered in December 2010 and "Item 5.A. Operating Results, for a refund we decided to grant our subscribers following that malf unction. There are certain restrictions in our license relating to the ownership of our shares. Our license restricts ownership of our ordinary shares and who can serve as our directors as follows: · our founding shareholder, Discount Investment Corporation Ltd., or DIC (or its transferee or transferees, if approved in advance by the Ministry of Communications as “founding shareholders”), must own at least 26% of each of our means of control; · Israeli citizens and residents among our founding shareholders (or their approved transferees) must own at least 20% of our outstanding share capital and each of our other means of control (DIC has agreed to comply with this requirement); · a majority of our directors must be Israeli citizens and residents; · at least 20% of our directors must be appointed by Israeli citizens and residents among our founding shareholders; and 22 Table of Contents · we are required to have a committee of our Board of Directors that deals with matters relating to state security, which must be comprised of at least four directors (including an external director) having the requisite security clearance by Israel’s General Security Service. If these requirements are not complied with, we could be found to be in breach of our license and our license could be changed, suspended or revoked. In addition, our license provides that, without the approval of the Ministry of Communications, no person may acquire or dispose of shares representing 10% or more of our outstanding share capital. Further, our directors and officers and any holder of ordinary shares representing 5% or more of our outstanding share capital may not own 5% or more of Bezeq or any of our competitors or serve as a director or officer of such a company, subject to certain exceptions which require the prior approval of the Ministry of Communications. To ensure that an unauthorized acquisition of our shares would not jeopardize our license, our articles of association provide that any shares acquired without approval required under our license will not be entitled to voting rights. If our service is to be determined by the Israeli Government to be an “essential service”, the Prime Minister and the Ministry of Communications could impose additional limitations including a heightened requirement of Israeli ownership of our ordinary shares. Although our articles of association contain certain provisions that are aimed at reducing the risk that holdings or transfers of our ordinary shares will contravene our license, we cannot entirely control these and other matters required by our license, the violation of which could be a basis for suspending or revoking our license. See also “Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview – Government Regulations ― Our Principal License”. We may be adversely affected by the significant technological and other changes in the cellular communications industry. The cellular market is known for rapid and significant technological changes and requires ongoing investments in advanced technologies in order to remain competitive. Experience in other developed countries has indicated that the growing demand for Internet, content and data through advanced third generation cellular phones, modems and other devices using cellular data results in a rapid growth of data traffic on cellular networks. In 2010 we have also experienced such growth. Experts estimate that data traffic will grow even faster in the future and some operators have taken steps aimed at reducing data usage by their subscribers, including by transferring traffic to free alternative networks. MVNO hosting services and national roaming on our network, if materialized, would further increase such demand. Our strategy to grow and develop our Internet, content and data services has proven to be successful and contributed positively to our results of operations. To answer the growing demand for cellular data traffic, we would be required, among others, to invest in advanced technologies such as 4G cellular technologies (Long Term Evolution, or LTE), which will allow larger capacity and higher data speed rates. Although we have been building our LTE readiness, should we decide to build an LTE network, it would require substantial investments and the allocation of frequencies. Such allocation to us is not guaranteed, when required or at all (including in light of prior preference given by the Ministry of Communications to new and small competitors in the allocation of additional UMTS 23 Table of Contents frequencies at the September 2010 tender and the limited amount of available frequencies), and there is no certainty as to the cost of frequencies, if and when allocated to us. Inability to receive additional frequencies in a timely manner to meet our needs or at all and specifically if LTE frequencies are allocated to our competitors and not to us could impair our ability to compete and may require us to cease offering certain products and/or services we currently offer and/or change their terms and conditions and/or make substantial unplanned investments, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. If we cannot obtain or maintain favorable roaming arrangements, our services may be less attractive or less profitable. We rely on agreements to provide roaming capability to our subscribers in many areas outside Israel. As of December 31, 2010, we had roaming arrangements with 577 cellular providers in 179 countries around the world. However, we cannot control the quality of the service that they provide and it may be inferior to the quality of service that we provide. Equally, our subscribers may not be able to use some of the advanced features that they enjoy when making calls on our network. Some of our competitors may be able to obtain lower roaming rates than we do because they may have larger call volumes. Competition has intensified since the launch of a UMTS/HSPA network in 2009 by Pelephone and is expected to intensify further, if new operators, including MVNOs or Mirs, begin providing roaming servi ces as well. If our competitors’ providers can deliver a higher quality or a more cost effective roaming service, then subscribers may migrate to those competitors and our results of operation could be adversely affected. Further, we may not be able to compel providers to participate in our technology migration and enhancement strategies. As a result, our ability to implement technological innovations could be adversely affected if these overseas providers are unable or unwilling to cooperate with the further development of our network or if they cease to provide services comparable to those we offer on our network. Following European Union regulation of roaming tariffs, which reduced tariffs for calls made by members of the European Union among themselves, several European Union member operators have raised roaming tariffs for calls to and from non-European Union member operators, resulting in higher roaming tariffs for our subscribers. In addition, in August 2008, the Israeli Government adopted a resolution to negotiate a reduction of inbound and outbound roaming tariffs with the European Union and/or members of the European Union or countries frequently visited by Israelis. In November 2008 the Ministry of Communications requested us to provide information in relation to our roaming services. If roaming tariffs are reduced as a result of the proposed negotiation or otherwise and/or if additional European Union member operators raise their tari ffs and/or if we are not able to raise our tariffs or otherwise compensate for the higher roaming expenses, this could adversely affect our profitability and results of operations. Our substantial debt increases our exposure to market risks, may limit our ability to incur additional debt that may be necessary to fund our operations and could adversely affect our financial stability; Regulatory change may affect our possibilities to raise debt from institutional investors. As of December 31, 2010, our total indebtedness was approximately NIS 4,261 million ($1,201 million). The indentures governing our debentures currently permit us to incur additional indebtedness. Our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial condition by, among other things: 24 Table of Contents · increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or business conditions, including increases in the Israeli Consumer Prices Index, or CPI; · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our industry and the economy in general; · requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, thus reducing the funds available for operations and future business development; and · limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to operate, develop and expand our business. In October 2010, the Commissioner of Capital Markets, Insurance and Savings in the Ministry of Finance published a circular which in most parts become effective in January 2011, instructing institutional investors to follow certain procedures and requirements before investing in non-governmental debentures, including a requirement to verify that certain contractual provisions are included in the indentures of the invested debentures, and to establish a policy for investment in such debentures which will relate among other matters to repayment acceleration rights. These procedures and requirements may adversely affect our possibilities of raising debt from Israeli institutional investors as well as the terms and price of such debt raising. See Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects. – B. Liquidity and Capital resources for additional details. Our business results may be affected by continued recession Most of our revenues are not guaranteed or prepaid and are usage dependant. In 2009 we experienced a substantial decline in our roaming services revenues due to a reduction in incoming and outgoing tourism due to the global economic recession and also an increase in allowance for doubtful accounts which have been influenced by the global economic slowdown. For further details see "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – A. Operating Results – Results of Operations Comparison of 2008, 2009 and 2010 - Selling and marketing expenses and general and administrative expenses"). If this recession reoccurs, usage of our services decreases and we cannot otherwise compensate for lost revenues, it may have a material adverse effect on our results of operati ons, financial condition or prospects. If the number of customers that are unable to pay their bills increases or one or more of our larger business customers fails to pay the amount owed to us, it may materially increase our bad debts and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, the recession may adversely affect third parties we rely upon in the provision of our services, including interconnecting telecommunication providers, roaming partners and services and equipment providers. If those providers fail to provide reliable and consistent services and/or equipment to us on the requisite standards of quality and on a timely basis, our ability to provide services to our subscribers may be reduced in scope and/or in quality, until and inasmuch as an alternative provider can be found, and consequently our license may be at risk of re vocation for failure to satisfy the required service standards. An alternative provider and/or solution, may involve additional expenses and/or investments on our part and/or may involve terms that are less favorable to us, including reduced revenues. In addition, if any damage is caused to us and/or we are found liable for damages caused to third parties by such service or equipment providers and such providers are unable to indemnify us for such damages, we may have to bear the cost of such damages, which may be substantial, and such outcome may adversely affect our financial condition. 25 Table of Contents Our business results may be affected by currency fluctuations, by our currency hedging positions and by changes in the Israeli Consumer Price Index. A portion of our cash payments are incurred in, or linked to, foreign currencies, mainly U.S. dollars. In particular, in 2008, 2009 and 2010, payments in U.S. dollars or linked to the U.S. dollar represented approximately 33%, 36% and 33%, respectively, of total cash outflow (including payments of principal and interest on our debentures). These payments included capital expenditures, some of our operating lease payments and payments to equipment suppliers including handset suppliers. As almost all of our cash receipts are in NIS, any devaluation of the NIS against those foreign currencies in which we make payments, particularly the U.S. dollar, will increase the NIS cost of our foreign currency denominated or linked expenses and capital expenditures. Furthermore, since the principal amount of and interest that we pay on our Series A, B, C and D debentures, are linked to the Israeli CPI, any increase in the Israeli CPI will increase our financing expenses and could adversely affect our results of operations. See "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – B. Liquidity and Capital Resources – Debt Service – Public Debentures" for details. We purchase derivative financial instruments in order to hedge the foreign currency risks, CPI risks and interest risks deriving from our operations and indebtedness. Derivatives are initially recognized at fair value. Changes in the fair value are accounted for as follows: Changes in the fair value of derivative hedging instruments designated as a cash flow hedge are recognized directly as a component of our shareholders’ equity to the extent that the hedge is effective. To the extent that the hedge is ineffective, changes in fair value are recognized in our income statement as the hedged item affects earnings. The amount recognized in shareholders’ equity is transferred to our income statement in the same period that the hedged item affects our earnings. Notwithstanding the above, hedge accounting is not applied to deriv ative instruments that economically hedge monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. Changes in the fair value of such derivatives are recognized through our income statement upon occurrence. These differences in the derivative instruments' designation could result in fluctuations in our reported net income on a quarterly basis. We may not be able to fulfill our dividend policy in the future; implementation of our dividend policy will significantly reduce our future cash reserves. In February 2006, we adopted a dividend policy targeting a payout ratio of at least 75% of our net income in each calendar year, subject to any applicable law, our license and contractual obligations and provided that such distribution would not be detrimental to our cash needs or to any plans approved by our Board of Directors. In 2008, 2009 and 2010, our Board of Directors declared dividends constituting as much as 95% of our net income and part of our retained earnings from earlier periods and may declare dividends in similar rates in the future. See “Item 8. Financial Information - A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information - Dividend Policy”. Our license requires that we and our 10% or more shareholders maintain at least $200 mill ion of combined shareholders’ equity. Dividend payments are not guaranteed and our Board of Directors may decide, in its absolute discretion, at any time and for any reason, not to pay dividends or to pay dividends at a ratio to net income that is less than that paid in the past. 26 Table of Contents Our dividend policy, to the extent implemented, will significantly reduce our future cash reserves and may adversely affect our ability to fund unexpected capital expenditures as well as our ability to make interest and principal repayments on our debentures. As a result, we may be required to borrow additional money or raise capital by issuing equity securities, which may not be possible on attractive terms or at all. If we are unable to fulfill our dividend policy, or pay dividends at levels anticipated by investors in our shares, the market price of our shares may be negatively affected and the value of our investors’ investment may be reduced. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for key equipment and services. We depend upon a small number of suppliers to provide us with key equipment and services. For example, Nokia Siemens Israel provides our network system based on GSM/GPRS/EDGE technology, our UMTS/HSPA core system and related products and services, and our landline New Generation Network system, or NGN system; LM Ericsson Israel supplies our radio access network and related products and services based on UMTS/HSPA technology; Amdocs Israel provides us with services with respect to the operating of, and the implementation of developments to, our billing system; Alcatel Lucent provides our newly purchased Carrier Ethernet network and SDH equipment for our transmission network; and Be’eri Printers provides our printing supplies and invoices as well as the distribution, packaging and delivery of invoices and other mail to the postal service distribution centers. In addition, we lease a portion of our transmission capacity from Bezeq, the incumbent landline operator. Bezeq has experienced labor disputes, including stoppages, during the privatization process and liberalization of the landline market, and additional disruptions, stoppages and slowdowns may be experienced in the future. If these suppliers fail to provide equipment or services to us on the requisite standards of quality and on a timely basis, we may be unable to provide services to our subscribers in an optimal manner until an alternative source can be found and our license may be at risk of revocation for failure to satisfy the required service standards. We are a member of the IDB group of companies, one of Israel’s largest business groups. This may limit our ability to expand our business, to acquire other businesses or to borrow money from Israeli banks. We are an indirect subsidiary of IDB, one of Israel’s largest business groups. Other indirect subsidiaries of IDB also operate in the Israeli communication market providing high speed Internet, international telephone services and wireline and landline communication services. As a result, conflicts of interest may arise between us and other IDB group companies. Due to the limited size of the Israeli market and due to the high level of regulation of the Israeli market, in particular in the communications market, our being a member of the IDB group of companies may limit our ability to expand our business in the future, to form joint ventures and strategic alliances and conduct other strategic transactions with other participants in the Israeli communications market. In addition, pursuant to the “Guidelines for Sound Bank Administration” issued by the Israeli Supervisor of Banks, the amount that an Israeli bank may lend to one group of borrowers and to each of the six largest borrowers of such banking corporation is limited. Since we are a member of IDB’s group of borrowers, these guidelines may limit the ability of Israeli banks to lend money to us. 27 Table of Contents We are controlled by a single shareholder who can significantly influence matters requiring shareholders’ approval. As of December 31, 2010, DIC held, directly and indirectly, approximately 48.3% of our outstanding share capital. Pursuant to shareholders agreements among DIC and certain of our minority shareholders, who in the aggregate own approximately 3.43% of our ordinary shares, DIC has been granted the voting rights in respect of those shares. In addition to DIC’s shareholdings and such additional voting rights, it has the right to appoint the 20% of our directors that we are required by our license and articles of association to have appointed by Israeli citizens and residents among our founding shareholders. Accordingly, subject to legal limitations, DIC has control over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election and removal of our directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions. 0; This concentration of ownership could delay or prevent proxy contests, mergers, tender offers, open-market purchase programs or other purchases of our ordinary shares that might otherwise give our shareholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for our ordinary shares. Further, as a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from the application of the NYSE rules requiring the majority of the members of our Board of Directors to be independent and requiring our Board of Directors to establish independent nomination and compensation committees. Accordingly, our minority shareholders and debenture holders are denied the protection intended to be afforded by these corporate governance standards. Risks Relating to Operating in Israel We conduct our operations in Israel and therefore our results may be adversely affected by political, economic and military instability in Israel. Our operations, our network and some of our suppliers are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel may directly affect our business. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade within Israel or between Israel and its trading partners could adversely affect our operations and could make it more difficult for us to raise capital. Since September 2000, there has been a high level of violence between Israel and the Palestinians. Hamas, an Islamist movement responsible for many attacks, including missile strikes, against Israelis, won the majority of the seats in the Parliament of the Palestin ian Authority in January 2006 and took control of the entire Gaza Strip, by force, in June 2007. Hamas has launched hundreds of missiles from the Gaza Strip against Israeli population centers, disrupting day-to-day civilian life in southern Israel. This led to an armed conflict between Israel and the Hamas during December 2008 and January 2009. A substantial part of our network and information systems is located within range of missile strikes from the Gaza Strip and Lebanon. Any damage to our network and/or information systems would damage our ability to provide service, in whole or in part, in the southern or northern part of Israel or otherwise damage our operation and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. More generally, any armed conflicts, terrorist activities or political instability in the region would likely negatively affect business conditions and could harm our results of operations, including following termination of such conflicts, due to a decrease in the number of tourists visiting Israel. At the end of 2010 and at the beginning of 2011 several countries 28 Table of Contents in the region including Egypt, experienced increased political instability, which led to change in government in some of these countries (including Egypt), the effects of which are currently difficult to assess. In addition, in the event that the State of Israel relinquishes control over certain territories currently held by it to the Palestinian Authority, we will not be able to provide service from our cell sites located in Israeli populated areas and on connecting roads in these territories. This may result in the loss of subscribers and revenues and in a decrease in our market share. Our freedom and ability to conduct our operations may be limited during periods of national emergency. The Communications Law grants the Prime Minister of Israel the authority, for reasons of state security or public welfare, to order a telecommunications license holder to provide services to security forces, to perform telecommunication activities or to establish a telecommunications facility as may be required for the security forces to carry out their duties. Further, the Israeli Equipment Registration and IDF Mobilization Law, 1987, also permits the registration of engineering equipment and facilities and the taking thereof for the use of the Israel Defense Forces. This law further sets the payment for use and compensation for damages caused to the operator as a result of such taking. Our general license also permits the Israeli Government, during national emergencies or for reasons of national security, to take all necessary actio ns in order to ensure state security, including taking control of our network, and requires us to cooperate with such actions. If national emergency situations arise in the future and if we are to be subject during such time to any of the foregoing actions, this could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and provide services during such national emergencies and adversely affect our business operations. Provisions of Israeli law and our license may delay, prevent or impede an acquisition of us, which could prevent a change of control. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. For example, a merger may not be completed unless at least 50 days have passed from the date that a merger proposal was filed by each merging company with the Israel Registrar of Companies and at least 30 days from the date that the shareholders of both merging companies approved the merger. In addition, a majority of each class of securities of the target company is required to approve a merger. Further, the provisions of our license require the prior approval of the Ministry of Communications for changes of control in our Company. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to us or to our shareholders whose country of residence does not have a tax treaty with Israel exempting such shareholders from Israeli tax. For example, Israeli tax law does not recognize tax-free share exchanges to the same extent as U.S. tax law. With respect to mergers, Israeli tax law allows for tax deferral in certain circumstances but makes the deferral contingent on the fulfillment of numerous conditions, including a holding period of two years from the date of the transaction during which sales and dispositions of shares of the participating companies are restricted. Moreover, with respect to certain share swap transactions, the tax 29 Table of Contents deferral is limited in time, and when the time expires, tax then becomes payable even if no actual disposition of the shares has occurred. These provisions could delay, prevent or impede an acquisition of us, even if such an acquisition would be considered beneficial by some of our shareholders. Risks Relating to Our Ordinary Shares A substantial number of our ordinary shares could be sold into the public market, which could depress our share price.Our largest shareholder, DIC, holds approximately 48.3% of our outstanding ordinary shares, as of December 31, 2010. The market price of our ordinary shares could decline as a result of future sales into the market by DIC or other existing shareholders or the perception that these sales could occur. DIC sold 11,425,000 ordinary shares, or approximately 11.62% of our outstanding shares in a number of transactions outside the United States in 2007 and 2008. Sales may be made pursuant to a registration statement, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC pursuant to the terms of a registration rights agreement or otherwise, or in reliance on an exem ption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, including the exemptions provided by Rule 144 or Regulation S. Any decline in our share price could also make it difficult for us to raise additional capital by selling shares. In addition, under our option plan, options are subject to vesting schedules but vesting will be accelerated upon certain events including any sale by DIC that leads to DIC ceasing to control (as such term is defined in the Israeli Securities Law, 1968, namely the ability to direct our activities) us. As of December 31, 2010 we have 116,132 shares reserved for issuance upon the exercise of options. See "Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employment – E. Share Ownership – 2006 Share Incentive Plan". 