ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Factors that could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations are outlined below. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business financial position or results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Business Our results of operations will fluctuate from period to period and may not be indicative of our long-term prospects. The performance of our reinsurance operations and our investment portfolio will fluctuate from period to period. Fluctuations will result from a variety of factors, including: • reinsurance contract pricing; • our assessment of the quality of available reinsurance opportunities; • the volume and mix of reinsurance products we underwrite; • loss experience on our reinsurance liabilities; • our ability to assess and integrate our risk management strategy properly; and • the performance of our investment portfolio. In particular, we seek to underwrite products and make investments to achieve favorable return on equity over the long term. Our investment strategy to invest primarily in long and short positions in publicly-traded equity and corporate debt securities, is subject to market volatility and is likely to be more volatile than traditional fixed-income portfolios that are comprised primarily of investment grade bonds. In addition, our opportunistic nature and focus on long-term growth in book value will result in fluctuations in total premiums written from period to period as we concentrate on underwriting contracts that we believe will generate better long-term, rather than short-term, results. Accordingly, our short-term results of operations may not be indicative of our long-term prospects. We are a start-up operation and there is limited historical information available for investors to evaluate our performance. We have limited operating history. We were formed in July 2004 but we did not begin underwriting reinsurance transactions until April 2006. As a result, there is limited historical information available to help investors evaluate our performance. In addition, in light of our limited operating history, our historical financial statements are not necessarily meaningful for evaluating the potential of our future operations. Because our underwriting and investment strategies differ from those of other participants in the property and casualty reinsurance market, you may not be able to compare our business or prospects to other property and casualty reinsurers. Established competitors with greater resources may make it difficult for us to effectively market our products or offer our products at a profit. The reinsurance industry is highly competitive. We compete with major reinsurers, many of which have substantially greater financial, marketing and management resources than we do. Competition in the types of business that we underwrite is based on many factors, including: • premium charges; • the general reputation and perceived financial strength of the reinsurer; • relationships with reinsurance brokers; • terms and conditions of products offered; • ratings assigned by independent rating agencies; • speed of claims payment and reputation; and • the experience and reputation of the members of our underwriting team in the particular lines of reinsurance we seek to underwrite. 19 Table of Contents Additionally, although the members of our underwriting team have general experience across many property and casualty lines, they may not have the requisite experience or expertise to compete for all transactions that fall within our strategy of offering customized frequency and severity contracts at times and in markets where capacity and alternatives may be limited. Our competitors include ACE Limited, General Re Corporation, Hannover Re Group, Munich Reinsurance Company, PartnerRe Ltd., Swiss Reinsurance Company, Transatlantic Reinsurance Company and XL Capital Ltd., which are dominant companies in our industry. Although we seek to provide coverage where capacity and alternatives are limited, we directly compete with these larger companies due to the breadth of their coverage across the property and casualty market in substantially all lines of business. We also compete with smaller companies and other niche reinsurers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully in the reinsurance market. Our failure to compete effectively would significantly and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations and may increase the likelihood that we may be deemed to be a passive foreign investment company or an investment company. See ‘‘— We are subject to the risk of possibly becoming an investment company under U.S. federal securities law.’’ Our losses may exceed our loss reserves, which could significantly and negatively affect our business. Our results of operations and financial condition depend upon our ability to assess accurately the potential losses associated with the risks we reinsure. Reserves are estimates at a given time of claims an insurer ultimately expects to pay, based upon facts and circumstances then known, predictions of future events, estimates of future trends in claim severity and other variable factors. The inherent uncertainties of estimating loss reserves generally are greater for reinsurance companies as compared to primary insurers, primarily due to: • the lapse of time from the occurrence of an event to the reporting of the claim and the ultimate resolution or settlement of the claim; • the diversity of development patterns among different types of reinsurance treaties; and • the necessary reliance on the client for information regarding claims. As a relatively new reinsurer with a focus on being the lead underwriter on sizeable transactions and on a majority of premiums we underwrite, our estimation of reserves may be less reliable than the reserve estimations of a reinsurer with a greater volume of business of smaller transactions and an established loss history. Actual losses and loss adjustment expenses paid may deviate substantially from the estimates of our loss reserves contained in our financial statements, to our detriment. If we determine our loss reserves to be inadequate, we will increase our loss reserves with a corresponding reduction in our net income in the period in which we identify the deficiency, and such a reduction would negatively affect our results of operations. If our losses greatly exceed our loss reserves, our financial condition may be significantly and negatively affected. The property and casualty reinsurance market may be affected by cyclical trends. We write reinsurance in the property and casualty markets. The property and casualty reinsurance industry is cyclical. Primary insurers’ underwriting results, prevailing general economic and market conditions, liability retention decisions of companies and primary insurers and reinsurance premium rates influence the demand for property and casualty reinsurance. Prevailing prices and available surplus to support assumed business influence reinsurance supply. Supply may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return on investments realized in the reinsurance industry, the frequency and severity of losses and prevailing general economic and market conditions. Continued increases in the supply of reinsurance may have consequences for the reinsurance industry generally and for us, including lower premium rates, increased expenses for customer acquisition and retention and less favorable policy terms and conditions. Unpredictable developments, including courts granting increasingly larger awards for certain damages, natural disasters (such as catastrophic hurricanes, windstorms, tornados, earthquakes and floods), fluctuations in interest rates, changes in the investment environment that affect market prices 20 Table of Contents of investments and inflationary pressures, affect the industry’s profitability. The effects of cyclicality could significantly and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. A downgrade or withdrawal of our A.M. Best rating would significantly and negatively affect our ability to implement our business strategy successfully. Companies, insurers and reinsurance brokers use ratings from independent ratings agencies as an important means of assessing the financial strength and quality of reinsurers. A.M. Best has assigned us a financial strength rating of ‘‘A− (Excellent),’’ which is the fourth highest of 15 ratings that A.M. Best issues. This rating reflects the rating agency’s opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet obligations. It is not an evaluation directed toward the protection of investors or a recommendation to buy, sell or hold our Class A ordinary shares. A.M. Best periodically reviews our rating and may revise it downward or revoke it at its sole discretion based primarily on its analysis of our balance sheet strength, operating performance and business profile. Factors which may affect such an analysis include: • if we change our business practices from our organizational business plan in a manner that no longer supports A.M. Best’s initial rating; • if unfavorable financial or market trends impact us; • if our losses significantly exceed our loss reserves; • if we are unable to retain our senior management and other key personnel; or • if our investment portfolio incurs significant losses. If A.M. Best downgrades or withdraws our rating, we could be severely limited or prevented from writing any new reinsurance contracts, which would significantly and negatively affect our ability to implement our business strategy. Certain of our reinsurance contracts provide the client with the right to terminate the agreement if our ‘‘A− (Excellent)’’ A.M. Best rating is downgraded below certain rating thresholds. We expect that similar provisions will be included in certain future contracts as well. If we lose or are unable to retain our senior management and other key personnel and are unable to attract qualified personnel, our ability to implement our business strategy could be delayed or hindered, which, in turn, could significantly and negatively affect our business. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the efforts of our senior management and other key personnel to implement our business strategy. We believe there are only a limited number of available, qualified executives with substantial experience in our industry. In addition, we will need to add personnel, including underwriters, to implement our business strategy. We could face challenges attracting personnel to the Cayman Islands. Accordingly, the loss of the services of one or more of the members of our senior management or other key personnel, or our inability to hire and retain other key personnel, could delay or prevent us from fully implementing our business strategy and, consequently, significantly and negatively affect our business. We do not currently maintain key man life insurance with respect to any of our senior management, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer or Chief Underwriting Officer. If any member of senior management dies or becomes incapacitated, or leaves the company to pursue employment opportunities elsewhere, we would be solely responsible for locating an adequate replacement for such senior management and for bearing any related cost. To the extent that we are unable to locate an adequate replacement or are unable to do so within a reasonable period of time, our business may be significantly and negatively affected. Our ability to implement our business strategy could be delayed or adversely affected by Cayman Islands employment restrictions. Under Cayman Islands law, persons who are not Caymanian, do not possess Caymanian status, or are not otherwise entitled to reside and work in the Cayman Islands pursuant to provisions of the Immigration Law (2006 Revision) of the Cayman Islands, which we refer to as the Immigration Law, 21 Table of Contents may not engage in any gainful occupation in the Cayman Islands without an appropriate governmental work permit. Such a work permit may be granted or extended on a continuous basis for a maximum period of seven years (unless the employee is deemed to be exempted from such requirement in accordance with the provisions of the Immigration Law, in which case such period may be extended to nine years and the employee given the opportunity to apply for permanent residence) upon showing that, after proper public advertisement, no Caymanian or person of Caymanian status, or other person legally and ordinarily resident in the Cayman Islands who meets the minimum standards for the advertised position is available. The failure of these work permits to be granted or extended could delay us from fully implementing our business strategy. Operational risks, including human or systems failures, are inherent in our business. Operational risks and losses can result from, among other things, fraud, errors, failure to document transactions properly or to obtain proper internal authorization, failure to comply with regulatory requirements, information technology failures or external events. We believe that our modeling, underwriting and information technology and application systems are critical to our business. Moreover, our information technology and application systems have been an important part of our underwriting process and our ability to compete successfully. We have also licensed certain systems and data from third parties. We cannot be certain that we will have access to these, or comparable, service providers, or that our information technology or application systems will continue to operate as intended. A major defect or failure in our internal controls or information technology and application systems could result in management distraction, harm our reputation or increase expenses. We believe appropriate controls and mitigation procedures are in place to prevent significant risk of defect in our internal controls, information technology and application systems, but internal controls provide only a reasonable, not absolute, assurance as to the absence of errors or irregularities and any ineffectiveness of such controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our failure to maintain sufficient letter of credit facilities or to increase our letter of credit capacity on commercially acceptable terms as we grow could significantly and negatively affect our ability to implement our business strategy. We are not licensed or admitted as a reinsurer in any jurisdiction other than the Cayman Islands. Certain jurisdictions, including the United States, do not permit insurance companies to take credit for reinsurance obtained from unlicensed or non-admitted insurers on their statutory financial statements unless appropriate security measures are implemented. Consequently, certain clients will require us to obtain a letter of credit or provide other collateral through funds withheld or trust arrangements. When we obtain a letter of credit facility, we are customarily required to provide collateral to the letter of credit provider in order to secure our obligations under the facility. Our ability to provide collateral, and the costs at which we provide collateral, are primarily dependent on the composition of our investment portfolio. Typically, letters of credit are collateralized with fixed-income securities. Banks may be willing to accept our investment portfolio as collateral, but on terms that may be less favorable to us than reinsurance companies that invest solely or predominantly in fixed-income securities. The inability to renew, maintain or obtain letters of credit collateralized by our investment portfolio may significantly limit the amount of reinsurance we can write or require us to modify our investment strategy. As of December 31, 2007, we had letter of credit facilities in a maximum amount of $425.0 million of which $76.5 million had been issued. Our banks have accepted, with certain restrictions, our investment portfolio as collateral. In the event of a decline in the market value of our investment portfolio that results in a collateral shortfall, as defined in the letter of credit facility, we have the right, at our option, to reduce the outstanding obligations under the letter of credit facility, to deposit additional collateral or to change the collateral composition in order to cure the shortfall. If the shortfall is not cured within the prescribed time period, an event of default will immediately occur. We will be prohibited from issuing additional letters of credit until any shortfall is cured. We may need additional letter of credit capacity as we grow, and if we are unable to renew, maintain or increase our letter of credit facility or are unable to do so on commercially acceptable 22 Table of Contents terms we may need to liquidate all or a portion of our investment portfolio and invest in a fixed-income portfolio or other forms of investment acceptable to our clients and banks as collateral, which could significantly and negatively affect our ability to implement our business strategy. The inability to obtain business provided from brokers could adversely affect our business strategy and results of operations. A substantial portion of our business is primarily placed through brokered transactions, which involve a limited number of reinsurance brokers. Since we began underwriting operations in April 2006, we have placed all of our premiums written through brokers. To lose or fail to expand all or a substantial portion of the brokered business provided through one or more of these brokers, many of whom may not be familiar with our Cayman Islands jurisdiction, could significantly and negatively affect our business and results of operations. We may need additional capital in the future in order to operate our business, and such capital may not be available to us or may not be available to us on favorable terms. We may need to raise additional capital in the future through public or private equity or debt offerings or otherwise in order to: • fund liquidity needs caused by underwriting or investment losses; • replace capital lost in the event of significant reinsurance losses or adverse reserve developments; • satisfy letters of credit or guarantee bond requirements that may be imposed by our clients or by regulators; • meet applicable statutory jurisdiction requirements; • meet rating agency capital requirements; or • respond to competitive pressures. Additional capital may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. Further, any additional capital raised through the sale of equity could dilute your ownership interest in our company and may cause the market price of our Class A ordinary shares to decline. Additional capital raised through the issuance of debt may result in creditors having rights, preferences and privileges senior or otherwise superior to those of our Class A ordinary shares. Our property and property catastrophe reinsurance operations may make us vulnerable to losses from catastrophes and may cause our results of operations to vary significantly from period to period. Our reinsurance operations expose us to claims arising out of unpredictable catastrophic events, such as hurricanes, hailstorms, tornados, windstorms, severe winter weather, earthquakes, floods, fires, explosions, volcanic eruptions and other natural or man-made disasters. The incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable but the loss experience of property catastrophe reinsurers has been generally characterized as low frequency and high severity. Claims from catastrophic events could reduce our earnings and cause substantial volatility in our results of operations for any fiscal quarter or year and adversely affect our financial condition. Corresponding reductions in our surplus levels could impact our ability to write new reinsurance policies. Catastrophic losses are a function of the insured exposure in the affected area and the severity of the event. Because accounting regulations do not permit reinsurers to reserve for catastrophic events until they occur, claims from catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could significantly and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. We depend on our clients’ evaluations of the risks associated with their insurance underwriting, which may subject us to reinsurance losses. In some of our proportional reinsurance business, in which we assume an agreed percentage of each underlying insurance contract being reinsured, or quota share contracts, we do not expect to 23 Table of Contents separately evaluate each of the original individual risks assumed under these reinsurance contracts. Therefore, we will be largely dependent on the original underwriting decisions made by ceding companies. We will be subject to the risk that the clients may not have adequately evaluated the insured risks and that the premiums ceded may not adequately compensate us for the risks we assume. We also do not expect to separately evaluate each of the individual claims made on the underlying insurance contracts under quota-share contracts. Therefore, we will be dependent on the original claims decisions made by our clients. We could face unanticipated losses from war, terrorism and political instability, and these or other unanticipated losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have exposure to large, unexpected losses resulting from man-made catastrophic events, such as acts of war, acts of terrorism and political instability. These risks are inherently unpredictable and recent events may indicate an increased frequency and severity of losses. It is difficult to predict the timing of these events or to estimate the amount of loss that any given occurrence will generate. To the extent that losses from these risks occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be significantly and negatively affected. The involvement of reinsurance brokers subjects us to their credit risk. In accordance with industry practice, we frequently pay amounts owed on claims under our policies to reinsurance brokers, and these brokers, in turn, remit these amounts to the ceding companies that have reinsured a portion of their liabilities with us. In some jurisdictions, if a broker fails to make such a payment, we might remain liable to the client for the deficiency notwithstanding the broker’s obligation to make such payment. Conversely, in certain jurisdictions, when the client pays premiums for policies to reinsurance brokers for payment to us, these premiums are considered to have been paid and the client will no longer be liable to us for these premiums, whether or not we have actually received them. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with brokers around the world. We may be unable to purchase reinsurance for the liabilities we reinsure, and if we successfully purchase such reinsurance, we may be unable to collect, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we had purchased $26.2 million in reinsurance for the liabilities we reinsure, which we refer to as retrocessional coverage. From time to time, we may purchase retrocessional coverage for our own account in order to mitigate the effect of a potential concentration of losses upon our financial condition. The insolvency or inability or refusal of a retrocessionaire to make payments under the terms of its agreement with us could have an adverse effect on us because we remain liable to our client. From time to time, market conditions have limited, and in some cases have prevented, reinsurers from obtaining the types and amounts of retrocessional coverage that they consider adequate for their business needs. Accordingly, we may not be able to obtain our desired amounts of retrocessional coverage or negotiate terms that we deem appropriate or acceptable or obtain retrocessional coverage from entities with satisfacto ry creditworthiness. Our failure to establish adequate retrocessional arrangements or the failure of our retrocessional arrangements to protect us from overly concentrated risk exposure could significantly and negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Currency fluctuations could result in exchange rate losses and negatively impact our business. Our functional currency is the U.S. dollar. However, we expect that we will write a portion of our business and receive premiums in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In addition, DME Advisors may invest a portion of our portfolio in assets denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Consequently, we may experience exchange rate losses to the extent our foreign currency exposure is not hedged or is not sufficiently hedged, which could significantly and negatively affect our business. If we do seek to hedge our foreign currency exposure through the use of forward foreign currency exchange contracts or currency swaps, we will be subject to the risk that our counterparties to the arrangements fail to perform. 24 Table of Contents There are differences under Cayman Islands corporate law and Delaware corporate law with respect to interested party transactions which may benefit certain of our shareholders at the expense of other shareholders. Under Cayman Islands corporate law, a director may vote on a contract or transaction where the director has an interest as a shareholder, director, officer or employee provided such interest is disclosed. None of our contracts will be deemed to be void because any director is an interested party in such transaction and interested parties will not be held liable for monies owed to the company. Under Delaware law, interested party transactions are voidable. Risks Relating to Insurance and Other Regulations Any suspension or revocation of our reinsurance license would materially impact our ability to do business and implement our business strategy. We are licensed as a reinsurer only in the Cayman Islands. The suspension or revocation of our license to do business as a reinsurance company in the Cayman Islands for any reason would mean that we would not be able to enter into any new reinsurance contracts until the suspension ended or we became licensed in another jurisdiction. Any such suspension or revocation of our license would negatively impact our reputation in the reinsurance marketplace and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The Cayman Island Monetary Authority, or CIMA, which is the regulating authority of the Cayman Islands, may take a number of actions, including suspending or revoking a reinsurance license whenever CIMA believes that a licensee is or may become unable to meet its obligations, is carrying on business in a manner likely to be detrimental to the public interest or to the interest of its creditors or policyholders, has contravened the terms of the Law, or has otherwise behaved in such a manner so as to cause CIMA to call into question the licensee’s fitness. Further CIMA may revoke our license if: • we cease to carry on reinsurance business; • the direction and management of our reinsurance business has not been conducted in a fit and proper manner; • a person holding a position as a director, manager or officer is not a fit and proper person to hold the respective position; or • we become bankrupt or go into liquidation or we are wound up or otherwise dissolved. In addition, CIMA could revoke or suspend our license if we are deemed to be a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, or an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or the Investment Company Act. Similarly, if CIMA suspended or revoked our license, we could lose our exemption under the Investment Company Act. We are subject to the risk of possibly becoming an investment company under U.S. federal securities law. The Investment Company Act regulates certain companies that invest in or trade securities. We rely on an exemption under the Investment Company Act for an entity organized and regulated as a foreign insurance company which is engaged primarily and predominantly in the reinsurance of risks on insurance agreements. The law in this area is subjective and there is a lack of guidance as to the meaning of ‘‘primarily and predominantly’’ under the relevant exemption to the Investment Company Act. For example, there is no standard for the amount of premiums that need to be written relative to the level of an entity’s capital in order to qualify for the exemption. If this exemption were deemed inapplicable, we would have to register under the Investment Company Act as an investment company. Registered investment companies are subject to extensive, restrictive and potentially adverse regulation relating to, among other things, operating metho ds, management, capital structure, leverage, dividends and transactions with affiliates. Registered investment companies are not permitted to operate their business in the manner in which we operate our business, nor are registered 25 Table of Contents investment companies permitted to have many of the relationships that we have with our affiliated companies. Accordingly, we likely would not be permitted to engage DME Advisors as our investment advisor, unless we obtained board and shareholder approvals under the Investment Company Act. If DME Advisors were not our investment advisor, DME Advisors would liquidate our investment portfolio and we would seek to identify and retain another investment advisor with a value-oriented investment philosophy. If we could not identify or retain such an advisor, we would be required to make substantial modifications to our investment strategy. Any such changes to our investment strategy could significantly and negatively impact our investment results, financial condition and our ability to implement our business strategy. If at anytime it were established that we had been operating as an investment company in violation of the registration requirements of the Investment Company Act, there would be a risk, among other material adverse consequences, that we could become subject to monetary penalties or injunctive relief, or both, that we would be unable to enforce contracts with third parties or that third parties could seek to obtain recission of transactions with us undertaken during the period in which it was established that we were an unregistered investment company. To the extent that the laws and regulations change in the future so that contracts we write are deemed not to be reinsurance contracts, we will be at greater risk of not qualifying for the Investment Company Act exception. Additionally, it is possible that our classification as an investment company would result in the suspension or revocation of our reinsurance license. Insurance regulators in the United States or elsewhere may review our activities and claim that we are subject to that jurisdiction’s licensing requirements. We do not presently expect that we will be admitted to do business in any jurisdiction other than the Cayman Islands. In general, the Cayman Islands insurance statutes, regulations and the policies of CIMA are less restrictive than United States state insurance statutes and regulations. We cannot assure you, however, that insurance regulators in the United States, the United Kingdom or elsewhere will not review our activities and claim that we are subject to such jurisdiction’s licensing requirements. In addition, we are subject to indirect regulatory requirements imposed by jurisdictions that may limit our ability to provide reinsurance. For example, our ability to write reinsurance may be subject, in certain cases, to arrangements satisfactory to applicable regulatory bodies and proposed legislation and regulations may have the effect of imposing additional requirements upon, or restricting the market for, non-U.S. reinsurers such as us with whom domesti c companies may place business. We do not know of any such proposed legislation pending at this time. If in the future we were to become subject to the laws or regulations of any state in the United States or to the laws of the United States, the United Kingdom or of any other country, we may consider various alternatives to our operations. If we choose to attempt to become licensed in another jurisdiction, for instance, we may not be able to do so and the modification of the conduct of our business or the non-compliance with insurance statutes and regulations could significantly and negatively affect our business. Current legal and regulatory activities relating to certain insurance products could affect our business, results of operations and financial condition The sale and purchase of products that may be structured in such a way so as to not contain sufficient risk transfer to meet the requirement of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 113, ‘‘Accounting and Reporting for Reinsurance of Short-Duration and Long-Duration Contracts’’ to be accounted for as reinsurance, or loss mitigation insurance products, have become the focus of investigations by the SEC and numerous state Attorneys General. Although we seek to use structured contractual features in our product offerings, we conduct both internal and external accounting analyses with respect to risk transfer and believe that to date all of our contracts contain sufficient risk transfer under SFAS 113 to be accounted for as reinsurance. However, because some of our contracts contain or will contain features designed to manage the overall risks we assume, such as a cap on potential losses or a refund of some portion of the premium if we incur smaller losses than anticipated at the time the contract is entered into, it is possible that we may become subject to the 26 Table of Contents ongoing inquiries into loss mitigation products conducted by the SEC or certain Attorney Generals. In addition, we cannot predict at this time what effect the current investigations, litigation and regulatory activity will have on the reinsurance industry or our business or what, if any, changes may be made to laws and regulations regarding the industry and financial reporting. It is possible that these investigations or related regulatory developments will mandate changes in industry practices that will negatively impact our ability to use certain loss mitigation features in our products and, accordingly, our ability to operate our business pursuant to our existing strategy. Moreover, any reclassification of our reinsurance contracts as deposit liabilities rather than reinsurance contacts could call into question our exception under the Investment Company Act. The outcome of recent industry investigations and regulatory proposals could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and cause the price of our shares to be volatile. The insurance industry has attracted increased scrutiny by regulatory and law enforcement authorities relating to allegations of improper special payments, price-fixing, bid-rigging, improper accounting practices and other alleged misconduct. Formal and informal inquiries have been made of a large segment of the industry, and a number of companies in the insurance industry have received subpoenas, requests for information from regulatory agencies or other inquiries relating to these and similar matters. These efforts have resulted in both enforcement actions and proposals for new regulation. Although some of these enforcement actions have been settled and we are not subject to the United States regulatory regime, we cannot predict the outcome of this increased regulatory scrutiny or whether it will expand into other areas, whether activities and practices currently thought to be lawful will be characterized as unlawful, what form new regulations will have when f inally adopted or the impact, if any, of increased regulatory and law enforcement action on our business and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Investment Strategy and Our Investment Advisor We have limited control as to how our investment portfolio is allocated and its performance depends on the ability of DME Advisors to select and manage appropriate investments. DME Advisors acts as our exclusive investment advisor for our investment portfolio and recommends appropriate investment opportunities. Although DME Advisors is contractually obligated to follow our investment guidelines, we cannot assure shareholders as to how assets will be allocated to different investment opportunities, including long and short positions and derivatives trading, which could increase the level of risk to which our investment portfolio will be exposed. In addition, DME Advisors can outsource to subadvisors without our consent or approval. The performance of our investment portfolio depends to a great extent on the ability of DME Advisors to select and manage appropriate investments. Our investment agreement with DME Advisors terminates on December 31, 2010, unless extended, and we have limited ability to terminate the investment agreement earlier. We cannot assure you that DME Advisors will be successful in meeting our investment objectives or that the investment agreement with DME Advisors will be renewed. The failure of DME Advisors to perform adequately could significantly and negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend upon DME Advisors to implement our investment strategy. We depend upon DME Advisors to implement our investment strategy. Accordingly, the diminution or loss of the services of DME Advisors could significantly affect our business. The loss of DME Advisors’ principals or other key personnel, or DME Advisors’ inability to hire and retain other key personnel, over which we have no control, could delay or prevent DME Advisors from fully implementing our investment strategy on our behalf, and consequently, could significantly and negatively affect our business. The investment agreement requires that we utilize the advisory services of DME Advisors exclusively until December 31, 2010 subject to limited termination provisions, even if the performance of our investment portfolio is below our expectations. 27 Table of Contents Our investment performance may suffer as a result of adverse capital market developments or other factors and impact our liquidity, which could in turn adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We derive a significant portion of our income from our investment portfolio. As a result, our operating results depend in part on the performance of our investment portfolio. We strive to structure our investments in a manner that recognizes our liquidity needs for future liabilities. We cannot assure you that DME Advisors will successfully structure our investments in relation to our anticipated liabilities. Failure to do so could force us to liquidate investments at a significant loss or at prices that are not optimal, which could significantly and adversely affect our financial results. The returns on our investment portfolio for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 were $27.6 million, $58.5 million, and $27.9 million, respectively, compared to total revenue of $125.7 million, $86.1 million and $29.3 million, respectively. The risks associated with DME Advisors’ value-oriented investment strategy may be substantially greater than the risks associated with traditional fixed-income investment strategies. In addition, making long equity investments in an up or rising market may increase the risk of not generating profits on these investments and we may incur losses if the market declines. Similarly, making short equity investments in a down or falling market may increase the risk of not generating profits on these investments and we may incur losses if the market rises. The market price of the Class A ordinary shares may be volatile and the risk of loss may be greater when compared with other reinsurance companies. The success of our investment strategy may also be affected by general economic conditions. Unexpected market volatility and illiquidity associated with our investments could significantly and negatively affect our investment portfolio results. Potential conflicts of interest with DME Advisors may exist that could adversely affect us. None of DME Advisors and its principals, including David Einhorn, Chairman of our Board of Directors, and the president of Greenlight Capital, Inc., are obligated to devote any specific amount of time to the affairs of our company. Affiliates of DME Advisors, including Greenlight Capital, Inc., manage and expect to continue to manage other client accounts, some of which have objectives similar to ours, including collective investment vehicles managed by DME Advisors’ affiliates and in which DME Advisors or its affiliates may have an equity interest. Pursuant to our investment agreement with DME Advisors, DME Advisors has the exclusive right to manage our investment portfolio and is required to follow our investment guidelines and act in a manner that is fair and equitable in allocating investment opportunities to us, but the agreement does not otherwise impose any specific obligations or requirements concerning allocation of time, effort or investment oppo rtunities to us or any restriction on the nature or timing of investments for our account and for DME Advisors’ own account or other accounts that DME Advisors or its affiliates may manage. If we compete for any investment opportunity with another entity that DME Advisors or its affiliates manage, DME Advisors is not required to afford us any exclusivity or priority. DME Advisors’ interest and the interests of its affiliates, including Greenlight Capital, Inc., may at times conflict, possibly to DME Advisors’ detriment, which may potentially adversely affect our investment opportunities and returns. Although Mr. Einhorn, Chairman of our Board of Directors, recused himself from the vote approving and adopting our investment guidelines, he is not, under Cayman Islands law, legally restricted from participating in making decisions with respect to our investment guidelines. Accordingly, his involvement as a member of our Board of Directors may lead to a conflict of interest. DME Advisors and its affiliates may also manage accounts whose advisory fee schedules, investment objectives and policies differ from ours, which may cause DME Advisors and its affiliates to effect trading in one account that may have an adverse effect on another account, including ours. We are not entitled to inspect the trading records of DME Advisors, or its principals, that are not related to our company. Our investment portfolio may be concentrated in a few large positions which could result in large losses. Our investment guidelines provide that DME Advisors may commit up to 20% of our assets under management to any one investment. Accordingly, from time to time we may hold a few, 28 Table of Contents relatively large securities positions in relation to our capital. As of December 31, 2007, we were invested in fewer than 100 equity securities and the top five long and short positions in equity securities comprised an aggregate of 40.3% and 16.1%, respectively, of our investment portfolio. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 11.1% and 10.1% of our invested capital was invested in long positions in Criteria CaixaCorp S.A. and Arkema, respectively. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 10.3% of our invested capital was invested in one long position in Lanxess AG. Since our investment portfolio may not be widely diversified, it may be subject to more rapid changes in value than would be the case if the investment portfolio were required to maintain a wide diversification among companies, securities and types of securities. We are exposed to credit risk primarily from the possibility that counterparties may default on their obligations to us. We are exposed to credit risk primarily from the possibility that counterparties may default on their obligations to us. The amount of the maximum exposure to credit risk is indicated by the carrying value of our financial assets. In addition, we hold the securities of our investment portfolio with several prime brokers and have credit risk from the possibility that one or more of them may default on their obligations to us. Other than our investment in derivative contracts and corporate debt, if any, and the fact that our investments are held by prime brokers on our behalf, we have no significant concentrations of credit risk. DME Advisors may trade on margin and use other forms of financial leverage, which could potentially adversely affect our revenues. Our investment guidelines provide DME Advisors with the ability to trade on margin and use other forms of financial leverage. Fluctuations in the market value of our investment portfolio could have a disproportionately large effect in relation to our capital. Any event which may adversely affect the value of positions we hold could significantly negatively affect the net asset value of our investment portfolio and thus our results of operations. DME Advisors may effectuate short sales that subject us to unlimited loss potential. DME Advisors may enter into transactions in which it sells a security it does not own, which we refer to as a short sale, in anticipation of a decline in the market value of the security. Short sales for our account theoretically will involve unlimited loss potential since the market price of securities sold short may continuously increase. Under adverse market conditions, DME Advisors might have difficulty purchasing securities to meet short sale delivery obligations and may have to cover shorts sales at suboptimal prices. The loss by DME Advisors of key employees could materially adversely affect our investment results. DME Advisors, and consequently our investment portfolio, is dependent on the talents, efforts and leadership of DME Advisors’ principals. The diminution or loss of the services of DME Advisors’ principals, or diminution or loss of their reputation and integrity or any negative market or industry perception arising from that diminution or loss, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our investment agreement with DME Advisors does not allow us to terminate the agreement in the event that DME Advisors loses any or all of its principals. DME Advisors may transact in derivative instruments, which may increase the risk of our investment portfolio. Derivative instruments, or derivatives, include futures, options, swaps, structured securities and other instruments and contracts that derive their value from one or more underlying securities, financial benchmarks, currencies, commodities or indices. There are a number of risks associated with derivatives trading. Because many derivatives are leveraged, and thus provide significantly more market exposure than the money paid or deposited when the transaction is entered into, a relatively small adverse market movement may result in the loss of a substantial portion of or the entire investment, and may potentially expose us to a loss exceeding the original amount invested. Derivatives may also expose us to liquidity and counterparty risk. There may not be a liquid market within which to close or dispose of outstanding derivatives contracts. In the event of the counterparty’s 29 Table of Contents default, we will generally only rank as an unsecured creditor and risk the loss of all or a portion of the amounts we are contractually entitled to receive. The compensation arrangements of DME Advisors may create an incentive to effect transactions that are risky or speculative. DME Advisors is entitled to two forms of compensation under the investment agreement: • a management fee of 1.5% annually, charged monthly, based on net assets under management, excluding assets, if any, held in Regulation 114 Trusts; and • performance compensation based on the appreciation, including unrealized appreciation, in the value of our investment portfolio equal to 20% of net profits, subject to a loss carryforward provision. While the performance compensation arrangement provides that losses will be carried forward as an offset against net profits in subsequent periods, DME Advisors generally will not otherwise be penalized for realized losses or decreases in the value of our portfolio. These performance compensation arrangements may create an incentive for DME Advisors to engage in transactions that focus on the potential for short-term gains rather than long-term growth or that are particularly risky or speculative. DME Advisors’ representatives’ service on boards and committees may place trading restrictions on our investments and may subject us to indemnification liability. DME Advisors may from time to time place its or its affiliates’ representatives on creditors committees and/or boards of certain companies in which we have invested. While such representation may enable DME Advisors to enhance the sale value of our investments, it may also place trading restrictions on our investments and may subject us to indemnification liability. The investment agreement provides for the indemnification of DME Advisors or any other person designated by DME Advisors for claims arising from such board representation. From March 31, 2006 until March 7, 2007, David Einhorn, the Chairman of our Board of Directors, was a director of New Century Financial Corp., or New Century, a subprime mortgage lender that filed for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code on April 2, 2007. Each of New Century’s directors, including Mr. Einhorn, has been named as a defendant in several shareholder lawsuits. If Mr. Einhorn were held liable with respect to any claims relating to or arising out of New Century’s bankruptcy filing or the shareholder lawsuits, and if such claims were not fully covered by New Century’s director and officer insurance coverage or indemnification by New Century, then under the advisory agreement we may have to indemnify him for certain losses arising from such claims. We do not believe that our indemnification obligations, if any, relating to Mr. Einhorn’s former membership on the board of directors of New Century would have a material adverse effect on our business. As of December 31, 2007, representatives of DME Advisors sat on the board of directors of each of BioFuel Energy Corp. and Einstein Noah Restaurant Group, both of whose securities are publicly traded. Additionally, representatives of DME Advisors sat on the board of directors of Ark Real Estate Partners LP, a privately-held company as of December 31, 2007. As of December 31, 2007, our portfolio included investments in each of BioFuel Energy Corp., Einstein Noah Restaurant Group and Ark Real Estate Partners LP. The ability to use ‘‘soft dollars’’ may provide DME Advisors with an incentive to select certain brokers that may take into account benefits to be received by DME Advisors. DME Advisors is entitled to use so-called ‘‘soft dollars’’ generated by commissions paid in connection with transactions for our investment portfolio to pay for certain of DME Advisors’ operating and overhead costs, including the payment of all or a portion of its costs and expenses of operation. ‘‘Soft dollars’’ are a means of paying brokerage firms for their services through commission revenue, rather than through direct payments. DME Advisors’ right to use soft dollars may give 30 Table of Contents DME Advisors an incentive to select brokers or dealers for our transactions, or to negotiate commission rates or other execution terms, in a manner that takes into account the soft dollar benefits received by DME Advisors rather than giving exclusive consideration to the interests of our investment portfolio and, accordingly, may create a conflict. The investment agreement has limited termination provisions. The investment agreement has limited termination provisions which restrict our ability to manage our investment portfolio outside of DME Advisors. Because the investment agreement contains exclusivity and limited termination provisions, we are unable to use investment managers other than DME Advisors for so long as the agreement is in effect. The investment agreement term is January 1, 2008 through December 31, 2010 and will automatically renew for successive three-year terms unless we or DME Advisors notify the other party at least 90 days prior to the end of the current term of its desire to terminate. We may terminate the investment agreement prior to the expiration of its term only ‘‘for cause,’’ which is defined as: • a material violation of applicable law relating to DME Advisors’ advisory business; • DME Advisors’ gross negligence, willful misconduct or reckless disregard of its obligations under the investment agreement; • a material breach by DME Advisors of our investment guidelines that is not cured within a 15-day period; or • a material breach by DME Advisors’ of its obligations to return and deliver assets as we may request. If we become dissatisfied with the results of the investment performance of DME Advisors, we will be unable to hire new investment managers until the investment agreement expires by its terms or is terminated for cause. Certain of our investments may have limited liquidity and lack valuation data, which could create a conflict of interest. Our investment guidelines provide DME Advisors with the flexibility to invest in certain securities with limited liquidity or no public market. This lack of liquidity may adversely affect the ability of DME Advisors to execute trade orders at desired prices and may impact our ability to fulfill our payment obligations. To the extent that DME Advisors invests in securities or instruments for which market quotations are not readily available, under the terms of the investment agreement the valuation of such securities and instruments for purposes of compensation to DME Advisors will be determined by DME Advisors, whose determination, subject to audit verification, will be conclusive and binding in the absence of bad faith or manifest error. Because the investment agreement gives DME Advisors the power to determine the value of securities with no readily discernable market value, and because the calculation of DME Advisors’ fee is based on the value of the in vestment account, a conflict may exist or arise. Increased regulation or scrutiny of alternative investment advisors may affect DME Advisors’ ability to manage our investment portfolio or affect our business reputation. Non-traditional investment advisors that pursue investment strategies like ours, which involve the shorting of securities and the use of derivatives and leverage to enhance returns and which we refer to as alternative investment strategies, have recently come under increased scrutiny by regulatory officials and have been the subject of proposals for new regulation and oversight. In 2005, the SEC considered stricter oversight of the alternative investment industry. Effective February 10, 2005, the SEC adopted a new rule under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 to require certain unregistered investment advisors to register with the SEC. In June 2006, a federal court of appeals vacated the SEC’s rule, but we cannot assure you that other legislation or regulations will not be proposed and enacted. It is possible that increased regulation of alternative investment advisors would adversely impact DME Advisors’ ability to manage our investment portfolio or its ability to 31 Table of Contents manage our portfolio pursuant to our existing investment strategy, which could cause us to alter our existing investment strategy and could significantly and negatively affect our business and results of operations. In addition, adverse publicity regarding alternative investment strategies generally, or DME Advisors or its affiliates specifically, could negatively affect our business reputation and attractiveness as a counterparty to brokers and clients. We may invest in securities based outside the United States which may be riskier than securities of United States issuers. Under our investment guidelines, DME Advisors may invest in securities of issuers organized or based outside the United States. These investments may be subject to a variety of risks and other special considerations not affecting securities of U.S. issuers. Many foreign securities markets are not as developed or efficient as those in the United States. Securities of some foreign issuers are less liquid and more volatile than securities of comparable U.S. issuers. Similarly, volume and liquidity in many foreign securities markets are less than in the United States and, at times, price volatility can be greater than in the United States. Non-U.S. issuers may be subject to less stringent financial reporting and informational disclosure standards, practices and requirements than those applicable to U.S. issuers. DME Advisors is entitled to receive management fees regardless of the performance of our investment portfolio. Pursuant to the investment agreement with DME Advisors, we are obligated to pay DME Advisors: • a 1.5% annual fee, regardless of the performance of our investment account, payable monthly based on the net asset value of our investment account, with certain exceptions, or management fee; and • performance compensation based on the appreciation in the value of our investment account equal to 20% of net profits calculated per annum, or incentive fee, subject to a loss carryforward provision. The loss carryforward provision allows DME Advisors to earn reduced incentive compensation of 10% of profits in any year subsequent to the year in which our investment account managed by DME Advisors incurs a loss, until all losses are recouped and an additional amount equal to 150% of the loss is earned. Risks Relating to our Class A Ordinary Shares A shareholder may be required to sell its Class A ordinary shares. Our Third Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association, or Articles, provide that we have the option, but not the obligation, to require a shareholder to sell its Class A ordinary shares for their fair market value to us, to other shareholders or to third parties if our Board of Directors determines that ownership of our Class A ordinary shares by such shareholder may result in adverse tax, regulatory or legal consequences to us, any of our subsidiaries or any of our shareholders and that such sale is necessary to avoid or cure such adverse consequences. Provisions of our Articles, the Companies Law of the Cayman Islands and our corporate structure may each impede a takeover, which could adversely affect the value of our Class A ordinary shares. Our Articles contain certain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. Our Articles provide that a director may only be removed for ‘‘Cause’’ as defined in the Articles, upon the affirmative vote of not less than 50% of our issued and outstanding ordinary shares. Our Articles permit our Board of Directors to issue preferred shares from time to time, with such rights and preferences as they consider appropriate. Our Board of Directors may authorize the issuance of preferred shares with terms and conditions and under circumstances that could have an effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction, deny shareholders the receipt of a premium on 32 Table of Contents their Class A ordinary shares in the event of a tender or other offer for Class A ordinary shares and have a depressive effect on the market price of the Class A ordinary shares. Unlike many jurisdictions in the United States, Cayman Islands law does not provide for mergers as that term is understood under corporate law in the United States. Cayman Islands law does have statutory provisions that provide for the reconstruction and amalgamation of companies, which are commonly referred to in the Cayman Islands as ‘‘schemes of arrangement.’’ The procedural and legal requirements necessary to consummate these transactions are more rigorous and take longer to complete than the procedures typically required to consummate a merger in the United States. Under Cayman Islands law and practice, a scheme of arrangement in relation to a Cayman Islands company must be approved at a shareholders’ meeting by each class of shareholders, in each case, by a majority of the number of holders of each class of an entity’s shares that are present and voting, either in person or by proxy, at such a meeting, which holders must also represent 75% in value of such class issued that are present and voting, either in person or by proxy, at such meeting, excluding the shares owned by the parties to the scheme of arrangement. The convening of these meetings and the terms of the amalgamation must also be sanctioned by the Grand Court of the Cayman Islands. Although there is no requirement to seek the consent of the creditors of the parties involved in the scheme of arrangement, the Grand Court typically seeks to ensure that the creditors have consented to the transfer of their liabilities to the surviving entity or that the scheme of arrangement does not otherwise materially adversely affect the creditors’ interests. Furthermore, the Grand Court will only approve a scheme of arrangement if it is satisfied that: • the statutory provisions as to majority vote have been complied with; • the shareholders have been fairly represented at the meeting in question; • the scheme of arrangement is such as a businessman would reasonably approve; and • the scheme of arrangement is not one that would more properly be sanctioned under some other provision of the Companies Law. In addition, David Einhorn, Chairman of our Board of Directors, owns all of the outstanding Class B ordinary shares. As a result, we will not be able to enter into a scheme of arrangement without the approval of Mr. Einhorn as the holder of our Class B ordinary shares. Holders of Class A ordinary shares may have difficulty obtaining or enforcing a judgment against us, and they may face difficulties in protecting their interests because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law. Because we are a Cayman Islands company, there is uncertainty as to whether the Grand Court of the Cayman Islands would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof, or be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands against us predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof. We are incorporated as an exempted company limited by shares under the Companies Law. A significant amount of our assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for persons purchasing the Class A ordinary shares to effect service of process within the United States upon us or to enforce judgments against us or judgments obtained in U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States or any state of the United States. Turner & Roulstone, our Cayman Islands counsel, has advised us that although there is no statutory enforcement in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, the courts of the Cayman Islands will, based on the principle that a judgment by a competent foreign court will impose upon the judgment debtor an obligation to pay the sum for which judgment has been given, recognize and enforce a foreign judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction if such judgment is final, for a liquidated sum, not in respect of taxes or a fine or penalty if not inconsistent with a Cayman Islands judgment in respect of the same matters, and was not obtained in a manner, and is 33 Table of Contents not of a kind, the enforcement of which is contrary to the public policy of the Cayman Islands. There is doubt, however, as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands will, in an original action in the Cayman Islands, recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state of the United States on the grounds that such provisions are penal in nature. A Cayman Islands court may stay proceedings if concurrent proceedings are being brought elsewhere. Unlike many jurisdictions in the United States, Cayman Islands law does not specifically provide for shareholder appraisal rights on a merger or consolidation of an entity. This may make it more difficult for shareholders to assess the value of any consideration they may receive in a merger or consolidation or to require that the offeror give a shareholder additional consideration if he believes the consideration offered is insufficient. Shareholders of Cayman Islands exempted companies such as ours have no general rights under Cayman Islands law to inspect corporate records and accounts. Our directors have discretion under our Articles to determine whether or not, and under what conditions, the corporate records may be inspected by shareholders, but are not obligated to make them available to shareholders. This fact may make it more difficult for shareholders to obtain the information needed to establish any facts necessary for a shareholder motion or to solicit proxies from other shareholders in connection with a proxy contest. Subject to limited exceptions, under Cayman Islands law, a minority shareholder may not bring a derivative action against our Board of Directors. Provisions of our Articles may reallocate the voting power of our Class A ordinary shares and subject holders of Class A ordinary shares to SEC compliance. In certain circumstances, the total voting power of our ordinary shares held by any one person will be reduced to less than 9.9% and the total voting power of the Class B ordinary shares will be reduced to 9.5% of the total voting power of the total issued and outstanding ordinary shares. In the event a holder of our ordinary shares acquires shares representing 9.9% or more of the total voting power of our ordinary shares or the Class B ordinary shares represent more than 9.5% of the total voting power of our outstanding shares, there will be an effective reallocation of the voting power of the Class A ordinary shares or Class B ordinary shares which may cause a shareholder to acquire 5% or more of the voting power of the ordinary shares. Such a shareholder may become subject to the reporting and disclosure requirements of Sections 13(d) and (g) of the Exchange Act. Such a reallocation also may result in an obligation to amend previous filings made under Section 13(d) or (g) of the Exchange Act. Under our Articles, we have no obligation to notify shareholders of any adjustments to their voting power. Shareholders should consult their own legal counsel regarding the possible reporting requirements under Section 13 of the Exchange Act. As at December 31, 2007, David Einhorn owned 17.3% of the issued and outstanding ordinary shares, causing him to exceed the 9.5% limitation imposed on the total voting power of the Class B ordinary shares. Thus, the remaining 7.8% of the voting power held by the Class B ordinary shares that is in excess of the 9.5% limitation will be reallocated pro rata to holders of Class A ordinary shares according to their percentage interest in the company. However, no shareholder will be allocated voting rights that would cause it to have 9.9% or more of the total voting power of our ordinary shares. The allocation of the voting power of the Class B ordinary shares to you will depend upon the total voting power of the Class B ordinary shares outstanding, as well as the percentage of Class A ordinary shares held by you and the other holders of Class A ordinary shares. Accordingly, we cannot tell you with precision what multiple of a vote per share you will be allo cated as a result of the anticipated reallocation of voting power of the Class B ordinary shares. 34 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Taxation We may become subject to taxation in the Cayman Islands, which would negatively affect our results. Under current Cayman Islands law, we are not obligated to pay any taxes in the Cayman Islands on either income or capital gains. The Governor-in-Cabinet of Cayman Islands has granted us an exemption from the imposition of any such tax on us until February 1, 2025. We cannot be assured that after such date we would not be subject to any such tax. If we were to become subject to taxation in the Cayman Islands, our financial condition and results of operations could be significantly and negatively affected. See ‘‘Certain Cayman Islands Tax Considerations.’’ We may be subject to United States federal income taxation. We are incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands and intend to operate in a manner that will not cause us to be treated as engaging in a United States trade or business and will not cause us to be subject to current United States federal income taxation on our net income. However, because there are no definitive standards provided by the Internal Revenue Code, regulations or court decisions as to the specific activities that constitute being engaged in the conduct of a trade or business within the United States, and as any such determination is essentially factual in nature, we cannot assure you that the United States Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, will not successfully assert that we are engaged in a trade or business in the United States and thus are subject to current United States federal income taxation. United States persons who own Class A ordinary shares may be subject to United States federal income taxation on our undistributed earnings and may recognize ordinary income upon disposition of Class A ordinary shares. Passive Foreign Investment Company. Significant potential adverse United States federal income tax consequences generally apply to any United States person who owns shares in a PFIC. We believe that each of Greenlight Capital Re and Greenlight Re was a PFIC in 2006, 2005 and 2004. We do not believe, although we cannot assure you, that Greenlight Capital Re or Greenlight Re was a PFIC for 2007. We can not provide assurance that neither Greenlight Capital Re nor Greenlight Re will be a PFIC in 2008 or any future taxable year. In general, either of Greenlight Capital Re or Greenlight Re would be a PFIC for a taxable year if 75% or more of its income constitutes ‘‘passive income’’ or 50% or more of its assets produce ‘‘passive income.’’ Passive income generally includes interest, dividends and other investment income but does not include income derived in the active conduct of an insurance business by a corporation predominantly engaged in an insurance business. This exception for insurance companies is intended to ensure that a bona fide insurance entity’s income is not treated as passive income, except to the extent such income is attributable to financial reserves in excess of the reasonable needs of the insurance business. We believe that we are currently operating and intend to continue operating our business with financial reserves at a level that should not cause us to be deemed PFICs, although we cannot assure you the IRS wi ll not successfully challenge this conclusion. If we are unable to underwrite sufficient amount of risks, we may be a PFIC. In addition, sufficient risk must be transferred under an insurance entity’s contracts with its insureds in order to qualify for the insurance exception. Whether our insurance contracts possess adequate risk transfer for purposes of determining whether income under our contracts is insurance income, and whether we are predominantly engaged in the insurance business, are subjective in nature and there is very little authority on these issues. However, because we are and may continue to be engaged in certain structured risk and other non-traditional reinsurance markets, we cannot assure you that the IRS will not successfully challenge the level of risk transfer under our reinsurance contracts for purposes of the insurance company exception. The IRS has notified taxpayers in IRS Notice 2003-34 that it intends to scrutinize the activities of certain insurance companies located outside of the United States, including reinsurance companies that invest a sig nificant portion of their assets in alternative investment strategies, to determine whether such companies qualify for the active insurance company exception in the PFIC rules. We cannot assure you that the IRS will not successfully challenge our interpretation of the scope of the active insurance company exception and 35 Table of Contents our qualification for the exception. Further, the IRS may issue regulatory or other guidance that causes us to fail to qualify for the active insurance company exception on a prospective or retroactive basis. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will satisfy the exception for insurance companies and will not be treated as PFICs currently or in the future. Controlled Foreign Corporation. United States persons who, directly or indirectly or through attribution rules, own 10% or more of our Class A ordinary shares, which we refer to as United States 10% shareholders, may be subject to the controlled foreign corporation, or CFC, rules. Under the CFC rules, each United States 10% shareholder must annually include his pro rata share of the CFC’s ‘‘subpart F income,’’ even if no distributions are made. In general, a foreign insurance company will be treated as a CFC only if United States 10% shareholders collectively own more than 25% of the total combined voting power or total value of the entity’s shares for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during any year. We believe that the dispersion of our Class A ordinary shares among holders and the restrictions placed on transfer, issuance or repurchase of our Class A ordinary shares (including the ownership limitations described below), will generally prevent shareholders who acquire Class A ordinary shares from being United States 10% shareholders. In addition, because our Articles prevent any person from holding 9.9% or more of the total combined voting power of our shares (whether held directly, indirectly, or constructively), unless such provision is waived by the unanimous consent of our Board of Directors, we believe no persons holding Class A ordinary shares should be viewed as United States 10% shareholders of a CFC for purposes of the CFC rules. We cannot assure you, however, that these rules will not apply to you. If you are a United States person we strongly urge you to consult your own tax advisor concerning the CFC rules. Related Person Insurance Income. If: • our gross income attributable to insurance or reinsurance policies where the direct or indirect insureds are our direct or indirect United States shareholders or persons related to such United States shareholders equals or exceeds 20% of our gross insurance income in any taxable year; and • direct or indirect insureds and persons related to such insureds owned directly or indirectly 20% or more of the voting power or value of our stock, a United States person who owns Class A ordinary shares directly or indirectly on the last day of the taxable year would most likely be required to include their pro rata share of our related person insurance income for the taxable year in their income. This amount would be determined as if such related person insurance income were distributed proportionally to United States persons at that date. We do not expect that we will knowingly enter into reinsurance agreements in which, in the aggregate, the direct or indirect insureds are, or are related to, owners of 20% or more of the Class A ordinary shares. We do not believe that the 20% gross insurance income threshold will be met. However, we cannot assure you that this is or will continue to be the case. Consequently, we cannot assure you that a person who is a direct or indirect United States shareholder will not be required to include amounts in its income in respect of related person insurance income in any t axable year. If a United States shareholder is treated as disposing of shares in a foreign insurance corporation that has related person insurance income and in which United States persons own 25% or more of the voting power or value of the entity’s capital stock, any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as a dividend to the extent of the United States shareholder’s portion of the corporation’s undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period that the United States shareholder owned the shares. In addition, the shareholder will be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned by the direct or indirect United States shareholder. Although not free from doubt, we believe these rules should not apply to dispositions of Class A ordinary shares because Greenlight Re is not directly engaged in the insurance business and because proposed United States Treasury regulations ap plicable to this situation appear to apply only in the case of shares of corporations that are directly engaged in the insurance business. We cannot assure you, however, that the IRS will interpret the proposed regulations in this manner or that the proposed regulations will not be promulgated in final form in a manner that would cause these rules to apply to dispositions of Class A ordinary shares. 36 Table of Contents United States tax-exempt organizations who own Class A ordinary Shares may recognize unrelated business taxable income. If you are a United States tax-exempt organization you may recognize unrelated business taxable income if a portion of our subpart F insurance income is allocated to you. In general, subpart F insurance income will be allocated to you if we are a CFC as discussed above and you are a United States 10% shareholder or there is related person insurance income and certain exceptions do not apply. Although we do not believe that any United States persons will be allocated subpart F insurance income, we cannot assure you that this will be the case. If you are a United States tax-exempt organization, we advise you to consult your own tax advisor regarding the risk of recognizing unrelated business taxable income. Change in United States tax laws may be retroactive and could subject us, and/or United States persons who own Class A ordinary Shares to United States income taxation on our undistributed earnings. The tax laws and interpretations regarding whether an entity is engaged in a United States trade or business, is a CFC, has related party insurance income or is a PFIC are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the passive foreign investment company rules to an insurance company and the regulations regarding related party insurance income are still in proposed form. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying such rules may be forthcoming from the IRS. We are not able to predict if, when or in what form such guidance will be provided and whether such guidance will have a retroactive effect. The impact of the Cayman Islands’ letter of commitment or other concessions to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to eliminate harmful tax practices is uncertain and could adversely affect our tax status in the Cayman Islands. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, has published reports and launched a global dialogue among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of tax havens and preferential tax regimes in countries around the world. In the OECD’s 2000 report, the Cayman Islands was not listed as a tax haven jurisdiction because it had previously committed itself to eliminate harmful tax practices and to embrace international tax standards for transparency, exchange of information and the elimination of any aspects of the regimes for financial and other services that attract business with no substantial domestic activity. We are not able to predict what changes will arise from the commitment or whether such changes will subject us to additional taxes. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved staff comments regarding our current or periodic reports. 