D. Risk Factors Investment in our securities including our ADSs and ordinary shares involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the following information about these risks and uncertainties, together with other information contained in this report, before you decide whether to buy or hold our securities. Risks Relating to Our Company and Our Industry Our operating history is short and may not provide you with an adequate basis upon which to evaluate our business and prospects. We were incorporated on May 1, 2006 to acquire our operating subsidiary, Jiangxi LDK Solar, which was incorporated on July 5, 2005. We commenced construction of our first manufacturing plant in Xinyu Hi-Tech Industrial Park of Jiangxi province in China in 2005. We completed the installation of our first set of production equipment for trial runs in February 2006 and made our first commercial shipment of solar wafers in April 2006. Our operating history may be too short to give you a sufficient basis for evaluating our business, financial performance and prospects. We may not be able to achieve similar results or growth in future periods. Accordingly, you should not rely on our results of operations for any prior periods as an indication of our future performance. If we are not able to manage our rapid growth effectively, our results of operations may be adversely affected. In anticipation of the growth in demand for our multicrystalline wafers, we plan to expand our business operations significantly. The success of such business expansion and operational growth will depend upon the improvement of our operational and financial systems, enhancement of our internal procedures and controls, increase in our manufacturing capacity and output, and effective recruitment, training and retention of technicians and skilled employees. In addition, we will need to maintain and expand our relationships with customers, suppliers and other third parties. We cannot assure you that our current and planned operations, personnel, systems, internal procedures and controls will be adequate to support our future growth. If we are unable to manage our rapid growth effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, successfully execute our business strategies or respond to competitive pressures, and our results of operations may be adversely affected. Failure to secure sufficient quantities of polysilicon feedstock on commercially reasonable terms could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Solar-grade polysilicon feedstock is an essential raw material in manufacturing our multicrystalline solar wafers. Our operations depend on our ability to procure sufficient quantities of solar-grade polysilicon on a timely basis and on commercially reasonable terms. Polysilicon is also an essential raw material for the semiconductor industry, which requires polysilicon of higher purity than that for the solar industry. The significant growth of the solar wafer industry and the competing demand and buying power of the semiconductor industry have resulted in an industry-wide shortage in solar-grade polysilicon and a significant increase in solar-grade polysilicon prices over the past few years. According to Solarbuzz, the average price of virgin polysilicon under long-term supply contracts is expected to increase from approximately $35 to $40 per kilogram delivered in 2005 to $65 to $75 in 2008. In addition, according to Solarbuzz, spot polysilicon prices ranged from $250 per kilogram to $400 per kilogram in 2007. Currently, we have polysilicon inventories and supply commitments that we believe will satisfy over 80% of our estimated polysilicon requirements for 2008. However, some of our polysilicon supply agreements are subject to fluctuating market prices or price negotiations with our suppliers. In addition, suppliers may delay or default in their delivery obligations under the supply agreements, as we have disclosed in the risk factor “— There are a 11 Table of Contents limited number of suppliers of virgin polysilicon feedstock and failure or delay by any of our polysilicon suppliers in delivering supplies to us could adversely impact our production and delivery schedule and harm our reputation” below. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to acquire polysilicon in sufficient quantities and on commercially reasonable terms or that we will be able to pass any increased costs of polysilicon to our customers. If we fail to do so, our business and profitability will be adversely affected. There are a limited number of suppliers of virgin polysilicon feedstock and failure or delay by any of our polysilicon suppliers in delivering supplies to us could adversely impact our production and delivery schedule and harm our reputation. Polysilicon manufacturing is a highly concentrated industry and there are only a limited number of virgin polysilicon producers in the world. According to Solarbuzz, the largest seven virgin polysilicon producers had a combined production capacity of approximately 82% of the global production capacity of polysilicon in 2007. These virgin polysilicon producers not only provide silicon feedstock to the solar industry but are also the sources of polysilicon feedstock for the semiconductor industry. Although a small portion of our polysilicon feedstock consists of virgin polysilicon, the suppliers of our remaining requirements in the form of recyclable polysilicon also rely on the virgin polysilicon producers for their polysilicon raw materials. There have been reports and announcements that these virgin polysilicon producers have implemented production expansion programs in one form or another, but there can be no assurance that such expansion plans will succeed or increase their production enough to relieve the industry-wide shortage in solar-grade polysilicon supply. In addition, there is no assurance that the various reported greenfield projects by new entrants in the virgin polysilicon industry will be successful and increase supply of virgin polysilicon feedstock to our industry. From time to time we have experienced delays or defaults by some of our polysilicon suppliers in delivering supplies to us. For example, we entered into a supply contract in late 2006 to purchase polysilicon from Technischer Warenhandel Heller and NCA Fortin Inc., as co-sellers, from 2006 to 2011. Pursuant to the terms of the contract, we paid an aggregate of $3.0 million as our deposits and prepayments with respect to the shipments of polysilicon feedstock scheduled for delivery. Technischer Warenhandel Heller and NCA Fortin Inc. eventually failed to consummate the transaction. Although Technischer Warenhandel Heller and NCA Fortin Inc. have refunded all of our deposits and prepayments, we had to replace their committed quantities of polysilicon from other sources. Material or prolonged delays or defaults such as these could adversely impact our production and delivery schedule and harm our reputation. If we fail to develop or maintain our relationships with these and other polysilicon suppliers, or should any of our major suppliers encounter difficulties in its production or shipment of polysilicon feedstock to us, whether due to natural disasters, labor unrest or any other reason, it will be difficult for us to find alternative sources on a timely basis and on commercially reasonable terms. In that event, we may be unable to manufacture and sell our products in the required quantities and on a timely basis. As a result, our production and delivery schedules may be adversely affected and our reputation may be harmed. Our suppliers, particularly virgin polysilicon suppliers, require us to make prepayments from time to time. We make these prepayments, without receiving any collateral, in order to secure stable supply of polysilicon. As of December 31, 2007, our prepayments to polysilicon suppliers amounted to $157.2 million. Some of our suppliers have failed to meet their delivery schedule in the past. In addition, because we have embarked on our own polysilicon manufacturing program, the perceived competition from us may inhibit virgin polysilicon suppliers from supplying us with polysilicon. If our suppliers fail or become unwilling to deliver the polysilicon we have ordered on time or at all and do not return our prepayments, our results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, we may not be able to find alternative sources of polysilicon, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In order to secure supplies of polysilicon, we have entered into substantial long-term contractual commitments to purchase polysilicon from various suppliers. As of December 31, 2007, these purchase commitments amounted to approximately $170.7 million. Our polysilicon purchase commitments are generally on a “take or pay” basis, so that we are required to purchase the contracted supplies of polysilicon even if we are unable to use them. Therefore if our wafer production and sales and polysilicon requirements do not grow as expected, these purchase commitments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See “Item 5 — Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Tabular Disclosure of Contractual Obligations” in this report. 12 Table of Contents Failure to complete our polysilicon production plant and bring it up to full operation within budget and on schedule could adversely affect our results of operations and our business expansion strategies. We commenced the construction of our polysilicon production plant in August 2007. This plant is located near our current solar wafer manufacturing facilities in Xinyu Hi-Tech Industrial Park. Our polysilicon production plant consists of two factories under construction, one with an expected annual installed polysilicon production capacity of 15,000 metric tons and the other with an expected annual installed polysilicon production capacity of 1,000 metric tons. Our plan is to complete the construction of the 1,000-metric-ton factory by the end of the second quarter of 2008 and at the 15,000-metric-ton factory by the end of 2008, and to achieve an aggregate installed annual production capacity of approximately 7,000 metric tons of polysilicon by the end of 2008 and approximately 16,000 metric tons by the end of 2009. Our estimated total cost to construct the polysilicon plant is approximately $1.2 billion. We do not expect to produce any significant quantities of polysilicon prior to 2009. We do not have any experience in polysilicon production. As a result, we have to rely on contractors, consultants, managers and technicians that we have recently hired or will hire from the industry to develop, construct and operate this plant. We also rely on manufacturing equipment that we have contracted to import for our polysilicon production operations. In addition, polysilicon production is a capital intensive business. We have expended and will continue to expend significant financial and other resources in order to construct, start-up, test-run and ramp up our new line of business. In addition to the risks described above, our ability to successfully construct and ramp up our polysilicon production plant is subject to various other risks and uncertainties, including: • the need to procure additional equipment at reasonable costs and on a timely basis; • the need to raise additional funds to finance the construction and ramp-up of the polysilicon plant, which we may be unable to obtain on reasonable terms or at all; • construction delays, delays in equipment deliveries and cost overruns; • our ability to install and implement the TCS plants and closed loop systems for each of our polysilicon manufacturing factories; • difficulties in recruiting and training of additional skilled employees, including technicians and managers at different levels; • diversion of significant management attention and other resources; and • delays or denials of required approvals, including environmental approvals, for our land acquisition and plant construction by relevant government authorities. If we fail to complete the construction of our polysilicon production plant in time or at all, or fail to make it operational up to its designed capacity or at all, or if the construction and ramp-up costs significantly exceed our original budget, our results of operations will be materially adversely affected and our business expansion and low-cost production strategies will be materially hampered. We may not be successful in producing polysilicon cost-effectively. We do not have operating experience in polysilicon production and, therefore, we may face significant operational challenges in our polysilicon production. The technology used to manufacture polysilicon is complex, requires costly equipment and is continuously being modified in an effort to improve yields and product performance. Microscopic impurities such as dust and other contaminants, difficulties in the manufacturing process, disruptions in the supply of utilities or defects in the key materials and tools used to manufacture polysilicon could interrupt manufacturing, reduce yields or cause a portion of the polysilicon unusable for our wafer production. If we are unable to build our polysilicon production capability on a timely basis, or if we face technological difficulties in our production of polysilicon, we may be unable to achieve cost-effective production of polysilicon to satisfy our wafer production needs. Our effective capacity and ability to produce high volumes of polysilicon depend on the cycle times for each batch of polysilicon. We may encounter problems in our manufacturing process or facilities as a result of, among other things, production failures, construction delays, human error, equipment malfunction or process 13 Table of Contents contamination, all of which could seriously harm our operations. We may experience production delays if any modifications we make in the manufacturing process to shorten cycles are unsuccessful. Moreover, the failure to achieve acceptable production levels and costs may cause our wafers not to be competitively priced, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The manufacture of polysilicon presents operational difficulties and dangers which could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Production of polysilicon requires the use of volatile materials and chemical reactions sensitive to temperature, pressure and external controls to maintain safety and provide commercial production yields. For example, in the production of polysilicon we plan to use trichlorosilane, or TCS, which is a type of chlorosilane gas that, when purified, can be highly combustible upon contact with air and is therefore potentially destructive and extremely dangerous if mishandled or used in uncontrolled circumstances. The occurrence of a catastrophic event involving chlorosilane gas as a result of a natural disaster or human error or otherwise at one of our polysilicon production facilities could threaten, disrupt or destroy a significant portion or all of our polysilicon production capacity at such facility for a significant period of time. Additionally, our polysilicon production facilities, in particular, are highly reliant on our ability to maintain temperatures and pressure at appropriate levels, the availability of adequate electricity and our ability to control the application of such electricity. Accordingly, mistakes in operating our equipment or an interruption in the supply of electricity at our production facilities could result in substantial shortfalls in production and could reduce our production capacity for a significant period of time. Damage from any such events or disruptions may not be adequately covered by insurance, and could also damage our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may not be able to significantly increase our wafer production capacity or output in order to increase our sales and gain additional market share. We need to significantly increase our wafer production capacity and output to be able to meet the growing demand of our customers. As of December 31, 2007, we had an annual wafer production capacity of approximately 420 MW. All of our wafer production facilities are operating at full or close to full capacity. Our strategy includes a rapid expansion of our wafer production capacity. To accommodate such expansion plan, we have acquired additional land adjacent to our current production site at Xinyu Hi-Tech Industrial Park and are constructing additional manufacturing facilities on the acquired land. Our expansion plan requires a substantial increase in our wafer production and ancillary equipment. We have entered into contracts to purchase additional equipment that is expected to be sufficient for our planned wafer production capacity expansion to approximately 800 MW by the end of 2008 and approximately 1,600 MW by the end of 2009. If any of our equipment manufacturers fails to deliver, or delays its delivery of, our equipment for any reason, the implementation of our expansion plan may be adversely affected. In addition, there is a limited supply of the principal wafer manufacturing equipment we use and we may not be able to replace our providers for the required equipment at reasonable costs and on a timely basis to implement our expansion plan. We cannot assure you that we will be able to implement the business expansion plan for our wafer production on a timely basis or at all. Our ability to successfully implement the business expansion plan for our wafer production to establish additional manufacturing capacity and to increase our output and sales is subject to various risks and uncertainties, including: • the need to procure additional wafer production equipment at reasonable costs and on a timely basis; • the need to procure sufficient supplies of polysilicon feedstock, consumables and other materials at reasonable costs and on a timely basis; • the need to raise additional funds to finance our purchase of additional polysilicon feedstock and equipment and the construction of additional manufacturing facilities, which we may be unable to obtain on reasonable terms or at all; • construction delays and cost overruns; 14 Table of Contents • difficulties in recruitment and training of additional skilled employees, including technicians and managers at different levels; • diversion of significant management attention and other resources; and • delays or denials of required approvals for our land acquisition and plant construction, including environmental approvals, by relevant government authorities. Our wafer production expansion plan contemplates a substantial increase in production capacity and we cannot assure you that we can successfully implement our expansion plan or manage such an expanded capacity. If we fail, or encounter significant delays in our efforts, to establish or successfully utilize additional manufacturing capacity or to increase our manufacturing output, we will be unable to increase our sales and capture additional market share, and our results of operations will be adversely affected. Reduction or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives for the solar power industry could cause demand for our products to decline, thus adversely affecting our business prospects and results of operations. Growth of the solar power market, particularly for on-grid applications, depends largely on the availability and size of government subsidies and economic incentives. At present, the cost of solar power substantially exceeds the cost of conventional power provided by electric utility grids in many locations around the world. Various governments have used different policy initiatives to encourage or accelerate the development and adoption of solar power and other renewable energy sources. Renewable energy policies are in place in the European Union, most notably Germany and Spain, certain countries in Asia, including China, Japan and South Korea, and many of the states in Australia and the United States. Examples of government-sponsored financial incentives include capital cost rebates, feed-in tariffs, tax credits, net metering and other incentives to end-users, distributors, system integrators and manufacturers of solar power products to promote the use of solar power in both on-grid and off-grid applications and to reduce dependency on other forms of energy. Governments may decide to reduce or eliminate these economic incentives for political, financial or other reasons. Reductions in, or eliminations of, government subsidies and economic incentives before the solar power industry reaches a sufficient scale to be cost-effective in a non-subsidized marketplace could reduce demand for our products and adversely affect our business prospects and results of operations. We operate in a competitive market against players with greater resources and more advanced technologies and we may not be able to compete successfully. The solar wafer manufacturing market is highly competitive. Our competitors include international players such as affiliates of BP plc, or BP Solar, Deutsche Solar AG, a unit of SolarWorld AG, or Deutsche Solar, Ersol Solar Energy AG, or Ersol, Evergreen Solar Inc., or Evergreen Solar, Green Energy Technology, Inc., or Green Energy, JFE Steel Corporation, or JFE, Kyocera Corporation, or Kyocera, M.SETEK Co. Ltd., or M.SETEK, PV Crystalox Solar AG, or PV Crystalox, Renewable Energy Corporation ASA, or REC, Sino-American Silicon Products Inc., or Sino-American Silicon, Sumitomo Mitsubishi Silicon Corporation, or SUMCO, as well as companies located in China such as Glory Silicon Energy Co., Ltd, or Glory Silicon, Jiangsu Shunda PV-Tech Co., Ltd., or Shunda, Jinggong P-D Shaoxing Solar Energy Technology Co., Ltd., or Jinggong P-D, Jinglong Industry and Commerce Group., Ltd., or Jinglong, ReneSola Ltd., or Renesola, Solargiga Energy Holdings Limited, or Solargiga, and Tianwei Yingli New Energy Resources Co., Ltd., or Tianwei Yingli, and Trina Solar Limited. Recently, upstream polysilicon manufacturers as well as downstream photovoltaic cell makers have also started to expand into wafer production business, such as MEMC Electronic Materials, Inc., or MEMC, Motech, NorSun AS, or NorSun, Q-Cells AG, or Q-Cells, Wacker Chemie AG, or Wacker, and Wacker Schott Solar GmbH, or Wacker Schott Solar. Many of our current and potential competitors have a longer operating history, better name recognition, greater resources, larger customer base, better access to polysilicon feedstock and greater economies of scale than we do. In addition, most of our competitors are integrated players in the solar industry that also engage in the production of virgin polysilicon, photovoltaic cells and/or modules. Their business models may give them competitive advantages as these integrated players place less reliance on the upstream suppliers and/or downstream customers in the value chain. A number of customers and suppliers are also our competitors. We currently have no plans to expand into the 15 Table of Contents production of photovoltaic cells or modules, and we have entered into non-competition agreements with some of our customers, pursuant to which we have agreed not to engage in the production of solar cells or modules based on current wafer technology for approximately 10 years. Furthermore, due to the perceived growth in demand for multicrystalline wafers, we expect an increase in the number of competitors over the next few years. The key barriers to entry into our industry at present consist of access to supplies of solar-grade polysilicon, availability of financing and availability of various production equipment, such as ingot-producing DSS furnaces and wafering equipment. If these barriers disappear or become more easily surmountable, new competitors may successfully enter our industry, resulting in loss of our market share and increased price competition. We also compete with alternative solar technologies. Some companies have spent significant resources in the research and development of proprietary solar technologies that may eventually produce photovoltaic products at costs similar to, or lower than, those of multicrystalline wafers without compromising product quality. For example, they are developing or currently producing photovoltaic products based on thin film photovoltaic materials, which require significantly less polysilicon to produce than multicrystalline solar products. These alternative photovoltaic products may cost less than those based on multicrystalline technologies while achieving the same level of conversion efficiency. Our founder, chairman, chief executive officer and controlling shareholder, Mr. Xiaofeng Peng, in his personal capacity, and his family members are considering and may invest or otherwise participate in his personal capacity in several alternative energy projects, including projects involving thin-film solar technology, solar thermal, wind energy and biofuels. We have decided not to enter into solar cell and module or thin film module production. The solar power market in general also competes with other sources of renewable energy and conventional power generation. If prices for conventional and other renewable energy sources decline, or if these sources enjoy greater policy support than solar power, the solar power market could suffer and our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for our production equipment and consumables, and failure or delay by any of them in delivering equipment or consumables to us could adversely impact our production. We rely on a limited number of equipment suppliers for all of our principal manufacturing equipment and spare parts, including our DSS furnaces, squarers that we use to cut multicrystalline ingots into smaller blocks, wafering wire saws that we use to slice these blocks into wafers and polysilicon reactors that produce polysilicon with solar-grade purity. We also rely on a limited number of suppliers for the consumables, such as crucibles and slurry, that we use in our wafer production. Our equipment suppliers include Chemical Design Inc., or CDI, GT Solar Incorporated, or GT Solar, HCT Shaping Systems SA, an affiliate of Applied Materials, Inc., or HCT Shaping, Meyer Burger AG, or Meyer Burger, and Sinocon Machinery Company. These suppliers have supplied most of our current equipment and spare parts, and we will also rely on them to provide a substantial portion of the principal manufacturing equipment and spare parts contemplated in our expansion program. There is currently a shortage globally in much of the equipment and consumables required for our manufacturing process and capacity expansion. Our strategy includes a substantial expansion of our annual production capacity. We have entered into contracts with these equipment manufacturers to purchase additional equipment from them that is expected to be sufficient for our planned wafer-production expansion to approximately 800 MW by the end of 2008 and approximately 1,600 MW by the end of 2009. We have also entered into equipment procurement agreements for the establishment of our polysilicon production facilities that are expected to be sufficient for our planned annual production capacity of approximately 7,000 metric tons by the end of 2008 and approximately 16,000 metric tons by the end of 2009. In addition, we have entered into a strategic cooperation agreement with Jiangxi Sinoma New Material Co., Ltd., or Jiangxi Sinoma, a Xinyu-based crucible manufacturer, in which we own a minority equity interest. This agreement provides that not less than 80% of Jiangxi Sinoma’s production capacity will be used to satisfy our requirements and that we will purchase not less than 80% of our annual requirements of crucibles from Jiangxi Sinoma. This agreement has a term of five years starting from November 2007. If we fail to develop or maintain our relationships with these and other equipment or consumables suppliers, or should any of our major equipment or consumables suppliers encounter difficulties in the manufacturing or shipment of its equipment or consumables to us, including due to natural disasters or otherwise fail to supply 16 Table of Contents equipment or consumables according to our requirements, it will be difficult for us to find alternative providers for such equipment or consumables on a timely basis and on commercially reasonable terms. For example, in the first quarter of 2008, we experienced delays in shipments of certain of our equipment for production of our wafers. As a result, the implementation of our expansion plan may be interrupted and our production may be adversely impacted. We may develop excess production capacity and, as a result, our profitability may be adversely affected. Our expansion plan is based on the projected market demand for solar wafers relative to the current insufficient production capacity in the wafer manufacturing segment of the solar industry. There has been an industry-wide expansion effort to increase the overall wafer production capacity. In connection with our expansion plan, we have entered into substantial commitments to purchase polysilicon feedstock over the next few years. As of December 31, 2007, these commitments amounted to approximately $170.7 million in the aggregate, with the purchase price subject to periodical renegotiations. In addition, we intend to invest approximately $1.2 billion to build our own polysilicon production facilities. Any aggressive expansion of manufacturing capacity by us and our competitors may result in significant excess capacity in the wafer segment or in the overall solar industry and, as a result, prices may decline, our utilization ratio may decrease and our results of operations may be adversely affected. Global supply for photovoltaic products may exceed demand, which could cause our wafer prices to decline and adversely affect our margins. Our wafer prices are based on a variety of factors, including global market wafer prices, supply and demand conditions, and the terms of our customer contracts, including sales volumes and the terms on which certain customers supply us with polysilicon feedstock. Also, many photovoltaic companies are signifcanlty increasing capacity to meet customer demand. According to Solarbuzz, wafer prices on a per-watt basis are expected to decline in the next few years due to increased production efficiencies, expected increases in global polysilicon supplies, declines in polysilicon prices, and increased wafer production capacity in our industry. If global supply for solar products signficantly exceed the global demand, solar products such as solar wafers may decline significantly in price. If wafer prices decline and we are unable to lower our costs in line with the price decline, whether through manufacturing larger ingots or thinner wafers, or through technological advances, our gross margins would be adversely affected or we may not be able to sell all our production. In addition, we intend to continue to enhance and broaden our revenue and customer base to target other leading global solar cell and module manufacturers. The current prevailing international market price for solar wafers is lower than the prevailing PRC market price. As a result, our increase in overseas sales may reduce our gross margin in the near term. We depend on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our net sales and changes in their purchase terms or patterns may cause significant fluctuations or declines in our revenues. We currently sell our multicrystalline wafers to over 30 customers. They are mostly solar cell and module manufacturers, including Gintech, Q-Cells, Solarfun, Solland Solar and Suntech. For the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2007, our five largest customers collectively accounted for approximately 70.2% and 42.7%, respectively, of our net sales. Suntech and Solarfun contributed 39.7% and 13.9%, respectively, of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2006. During the years ended December 31, 2007, Solarfun and Q-Cells contributed 12.3% and 10.0%, respectively, of our net sales. We have entered into long-term sales arrangements with original contractual terms of five years or longer with fixed quantities, and in some cases subject to price agreements, with some of our major customers, including Hyundai Heavy Industries Co., Ltd., or Hyundai, Solartech Energy, Neo Solar Power Corporation, or Neo Solar, and Q-Cells. We have also entered into agreements with Chinalight Solar Co., Ltd., or Chinalight, E-Ton, CSI, Gintech, General Electric International Inc., or GE Energy, Mosel Vitelic Inc., or Mosel Vitelic, Motech, and Solartech Energy pursuant to which we have committed to supply each of them with specific annual quantities of wafers over the next few years, with some subject to periodic negotiations on prices. In addition, we have entered into a cooperation agreement with Suntech, pursuant to which we have committed to supply to Suntech 100 MW of wafers in 2007 and, in each year from 2008 to 2015, wafers equal to 40% to 60% of our annual production. Pursuant to this cooperation agreement, we and Suntech have periodically negotiated the specific quantities and prices of wafers to be supplied and, as a result, we have delivered less quantities than provided in the cooperation agreement. We have also entered into framework agreements with other customers that 17 Table of Contents are subject to future quarterly or annual agreements or monthly purchase orders by the parties as to specific terms, including quantity and price. Any significant deviation from the contract terms on our customers’ part or our inability to negotiate or renegotiate acceptable quantities, prices and delivery terms from time to time with our customers may disrupt our operations and materially adversely affect our financial results. We will continue to rely on a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our net sales for the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that any of these customers will continue to purchase significant quantities of wafers from us. If any of these customers fails to purchase our committed production, we will be required to find alternative customers for these wafers. In addition, our customers could decide to expand upstream into the solar wafer business, which could adversely affect our sales to such customers. Because of our reliance on a limited number of customers, any of the following events may cause material fluctuations or declines in our net sales and profits: • reductions, delays or cancellations of purchase orders from one or more of our significant customers; • loss of one or more of our significant customers and our failure to identify additional or replacement customers; and • failure of any of our significant customers to make timely payments for our products. If we fail to develop or maintain our customer relationships with these and other customers, or if any of our major customers should encounter difficulties in its operations or reduce its purchases of our products, it may be difficult for us to find alternative customers on a timely basis and on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which may have an adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. If we are unable to fulfill our commitments to customers or customer orders on a timely basis, we may lose customers, our reputation may be damaged, and we may face penalties for breach of contracts. We have experienced delays in fulfilling purchase orders from some of our customers due to shortages in supplies of polysilicon feedstock and constraints in our production capacity. For example, during the first quarter of 2007, our production was interrupted because we temporarily shut down our DSS furnaces to install safety kits provided by GT Solar, manufacturer of our DSS furnaces. These safety kits are thermal blankets which are placed at the bottom of our DSS furnaces to prevent molten silicon from breaching the furnaces. In early 2008, we also experienced delays in the delivery of our products due to logistics disruptions as a result of the snow storms in China. In addition, our ability to meet existing contractual commitments to our customers depends on the successful and timely implementation of our expansion plan. If we are unable to fulfill our commitments to customers or customer orders on a timely basis, we may lose our customers and our reputation may be damaged. Moreover, our contracts with our customers sometimes provide for specified monetary damages or penalties for non-delivery or failure to meet delivery schedules or product specifications. If any of our customers invokes these clauses against us, we may need to defend against the relevant claims, which could be time consuming and expensive. We may be found liable under these clauses and be required to pay damages. We require a significant amount of cash to fund our future capital expenditure requirements and working capital needs; if we cannot obtain additional sources of liquidity when we need it, our growth prospects and future profitability may be materially adversely affected. We require a significant amount of cash to fund our operations. In particular, we will need substantial additional funding to finance the construction of our polysilicon production plant and the expansion of our wafer-production capacity, and our working capital requirements, including payments to suppliers to secure our polysilicon feedstock requirements. We will also need cash resources to fund our research and development activities in order to remain competitive on cost and technology. Historically, we have in part relied on substantial short-term bank borrowings and advance payments from customers to finance our working capital requirements. We will need additional debt or equity financing to finance our planned wafer production capacity expansion, construction of our polysilicon facilities and working capital requirements. In addition, future acquisitions, 18 Table of Contents expansions, market changes or other developments may cause us to require additional financing. Our ability to obtain external financing in the future is subject to a number of uncertainties, including: • our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; • general market conditions for financing activities by companies in our industry; and • economic, political and other conditions in China and elsewhere. If we are unable to obtain funding in a timely manner or on commercially acceptable terms, or at all, our growth prospects and future profitability may be materially adversely affected. We have substantial existing indebtedness and may incur substantial indebtedness in the future, which could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to generate sufficient cash to satisfy our outstanding and future debt obligations. As of December 31, 2007, our outstanding short-term and long-term bank borrowings amounted to approximately $289.2 million. We may from time to time incur substantial additional indebtedness. If we or our subsidiaries incur additional debt, the risks that we face as a result of such indebtedness and leverage could intensify. Our substantial existing indebtedness and any increase in the amount of our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to generate sufficient cash. For example, it could: • increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to servicing and repaying indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, dividend payments and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in the businesses and the industries in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors which have less debt; • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants of such indebtedness, our ability to borrow additional funds; and • increase the cost of additional financing. Our ability to generate sufficient cash to satisfy our outstanding and future debt obligations will depend upon our future operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We may not generate sufficient cash flow to meet our anticipated operating expenses or to service our debt obligations as they become due. For the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2007, our net cash outflow from operating activities was $57.1 million and $80.7 million, respectively. If we are unable to service our indebtedness, we will be forced to adopt an alternative strategy that may include actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing existing indebtedness or seeking equity capital. These strategies, if implemented, may not be instituted on satisfactory terms. Any of these constraints upon us could materially adversely affect our ability to satisfy our obligations. Our customers may not prepay for their orders. We currently require most of our customers to prepay a portion of the purchase price of their orders. Advance payments from customers increased to $208.8 million in the year ended December 31, 2007 from $40.0 million in the year ended December 31, 2006. This allows us to prepay our suppliers with less reliance on borrowings to cover our cash needs for working capital. However, this practice may not be sustainable if market conditions were to change. Should this occur, our cash flows and business operations may be materially adversely affected as we would then be forced to raise more cash, have longer accounts receivable turnover days. 19 Table of Contents We are subject to several securities class action lawsuits resulting from allegations of accounting problems made by our former financial controller and, we are unable to quantify their eventual impact, if any, on us. These lawsuits or any similar or other allegations, lawsuits or proceedings in the future could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and reputation and may cause loss of business. Several securities class action lawsuits were filed against us and several of our current officers and directors during October 2007 in the U.S. District Court in the Northern District of California and the Southern District of New York. Those actions have been consolidated into a single action, pending in the Northern District of California, entitled In re LDK Solar Sec. Litig., Case No. C 07-05182 WHA. The lawsuit alleges securities law violations and seeks unspecified damages relating to the allegations made by our former financial controller, Charley Situ (“Mr. Situ’s allegations”). The complaints allege that we had knowingly and intentionally deceived the plaintiffs through misleading financial reporting by, among other things, overstating our inventories of polysilicon. In addition, several of our officers and directors are defendants in another lawsuit, pending in California Superior Court, Santa Clara County, entitled Sean Coonerty v. Xiaofeng Peng, et al., Case No. 108CV103758. This derivative lawsuit alleges claims of breach of fiduciary duty and unjust enrichment based on the same allegations contained in the securities lawsuit, including the allegations that the feedstock inventory was overstated. In response to Mr. Situ’s allegations, in October 2007, we formed an internal committee to investigate the allegations and conduct an immediate physical inventory count of our polysilicon materials. We found no material discrepancies as compared to our financial records. We believe that Mr. Situ’s allegations have no merit. Additionally, our audit committee conducted an independent investigation into the allegations made by Mr. Situ. The independent investigation was primarily conducted by our audit committee’s independent counsel, a major U.S. law firm, and forensic accountants from a “big four” independent accounting and consulting firm that was separate from our external auditors, as well as independent experts in the evaluation of silicon feedstock and the production of multicrystalline solar wafers. The independent investigation found no material errors in our stated silicon inventory quantities as of August 31, 2007, and concluded that Mr. Situ’s allegations of an inventory discrepancy were incorrect because he had not taken into account all locations where we stored our silicon feedstock. The independent investigation further concluded that we were using each of our various types of silicon feedstock in the production of our multicrystalline solar wafers, and that a provision for obsolete or excess silicon feedstock was not required. It is not possible for us to reasonably estimate the amount of loss, if any, we would incur in the event of an unfavorable outcome from the resolution of this litigation. We may be involved in similar or other allegations, litigations or legal or administrative proceedings in the future. Any such future allegations, lawsuits or proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business operations and adversely affect the market prices of our ADSs. Our business depends on the continued services of our executive officers and key personnel and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our success depends on the continued services of our executive officers and key personnel, in particular Mr. Xiaofeng Peng, our founder, chairman and chief executive officer. We do not maintain key-man life insurance on any of our executive officers and key personnel. If one or more of our executive officers and key personnel are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them readily, if at all. As a result, our business may be severely disrupted and we may have to incur additional expenses in order to recruit and retain new personnel. In addition, if any of our executives joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose some of our customers. Each of our executive officers and key personnel has entered into an employment agreement with us that contains confidentiality and non-competition provisions. However, if any dispute arises between our executive officers or key personnel and us, we cannot assure you, in light of uncertainties associated with the PRC legal system, that these agreements could be enforced in China where most of our executive officers and key personnel reside and hold most of their assets. See “— Risks Relating to Business Operations in China — The uncertain legal environment in China could limit the legal protections available to you” in this report. In addition, our founder, chairman, chief executive officer and controlling shareholder, Mr. Xiaofeng Peng, in his personal capacity, and his family members are considering and may invest or otherwise participate in several alternative energy projects, including projects involving thin-film solar technology, solar thermal, wind energy and biofuels. To the extent that Mr. Peng devotes significant time to any such projects, it may reduce his time and 20 Table of Contents services devoted to our company as chairman and chief executive officer, which could materially adversely affect our business. See “Item 6 — Directors, Senior Management and Employees — Directors and Senior Management.” Our principal shareholder, Mr. Xiaofeng Peng, has substantial control over our company and his interests may not be aligned with the interests of our shareholders. Mr. Peng, our founder, chairman and chief executive officer, currently beneficially owns 70.9% of our outstanding share capital. As such, Mr. Peng will have substantial control over our business, including decisions regarding mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors, dividend policy and other significant corporate actions. Mr. Peng may take actions that are not in the best interest of our company or our securities holders. For example, this concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our ADSs. On the other hand, if Mr. Peng is in favor of any of these actions, these actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders, including you and those who invest in ADSs. Mr. Peng, in his personal capacity, and his family members are considering and may invest or otherwise participate in several alternative energy projects, including projects involving thin-film solar technology, solar thermal, wind energy and biofuels. To the extent that Mr. Peng devotes significant time to any such projects, it may reduce his time and services devoted to our company as chairman and chief executive officer, which could materially adversely affect our business. If solar power is not adopted for wide commercial application, our revenues may decline and we may be unable to sustain our profitability. The solar power market is at an early stage of development and the extent of acceptance of solar power technology and products is uncertain. Many factors may affect the viability of wide commercial adoption and application of solar power technology, including: • cost-effectiveness, performance and reliability of solar power technology and products compared to conventional and other renewable energy sources and products; • availability of government subsidies and economic incentives to support the development of the solar power industry; • success of, or increased government support for, other alternative energy generation technologies, such as fuel cells, wind power, hydroelectric power and biomass energy; • fluctuations in economic and market conditions that affect the viability of renewable energy sources, such as increases or decreases in the prices of oil and other fossil fuels; • deregulation of the electric power industry and the broader energy industry; and • levels of capital expenditures by end-users of solar energy products, which tend to decrease when economic growth slows. Market data on the solar power industry is not as readily available as that on other more established industries where trends can be assessed more reliably from data gathered over a longer period of time. If solar power technology proves unsuitable for wide commercial adoption and application or if demand for solar power products fails to develop sufficiently, we may not be able to grow our business or generate sufficient revenues to sustain our profitability. Technological changes in the solar power industry could render our products uncompetitive or obsolete, which could reduce our market share and cause our net sales and profits to decline. The solar power industry is characterized by evolving technologies and standards. These technological evolutions and developments place increasing demands on the improvement of our products, such as higher photovoltaic efficiency and larger and thinner wafers. Other companies may devise production technologies that enable them to produce multicrystalline wafers that could yield higher photovoltaic conversion efficiencies at a lower cost than our products. Some of our competitors are developing alternative and competing solar technologies 21 Table of Contents that may require significantly less silicon than multicrystalline solar cells and modules, or no silicon at all. Technologies developed or adopted by others may prove more advantageous than ours for commercialization of solar products and may render our products obsolete. As a result, we may need to invest significant resources in research and development to maintain our market position, keep pace with technological advances in the solar power industry and effectively compete in the future. Our failure to further refine and enhance our multicrystalline wafers or to keep pace with evolving technologies and industry standards could cause our products to become uncompetitive or obsolete, which could in turn reduce our market share and cause our net sales and profits to decline. Unexpected equipment failures or accidents, including the release of hazardous materials, may lead to production curtailments or shutdowns, personal injuries or damage to properties. Our wafer manufacturing processes use hazardous equipment, such as DSS furnaces, squarers and wire saws. Such equipment requires skills and experience for safe operation. We could experience events such as equipment failures, explosions or fires due to employee errors, equipment malfunctions, accidents, interruptions in electricity or water cooling supplies, natural disasters or other causes. In addition, such events could cause damage to properties, personal injuries or even deaths. As a result, we may in the future experience production curtailments or shutdowns or periods of reduced production, which would negatively affect our results of operations. In addition, our polysilicon operations will involve the use, handling, generation, processing, storage, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials, which may result in fires, explosions, spills and other unexpected or dangerous accidents causing personal injuries or death, property damage, environmental damage and business interruption. Any such event could result in civil lawsuits or regulatory enforcement proceedings, which in turn could lead to significant liabilities. Our strategy includes possible alliances and acquisitions and our failure to successfully implement this strategy could have a material adverse effect on our business. As part of our strategy, we intend to consider entering into strategic acquisitions and investments and establishing strategic alliances with third parties in the solar industry. For example, in January 2008, we acquired 33.5% of Jiangxi Sinoma New Material Co., Ltd., or Jiangxi Sinoma, a Xinyu-based crucible manufacturer, from Xinyu Chengdong Investment and Construction Co., Ltd. for a consideration of approximately Rmb 16.8 million. We may engage in similar or other acquisitions that will complement our expansion strategies. Strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances with third parties could subject us to a number of risks, including risks associated with sharing proprietary information and loss of control of operations that are material to our business. Moreover, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances may be expensive to implement and subject us to the risk of non-performance by a counterparty, which may in turn lead to monetary losses that may materially adversely affect our business. Product defects could result in increased costs, damage to our reputation and loss of revenues and market share. Our products may contain defects that are not detected until after they are shipped or installed. For example, in July 2006, we had sales returns of over 7,000 pieces of improperly cleaned wafers due to the malfunction of our automated cleaning system and the limited operating experience of our employees. In 2007, we recorded an inventory write-down of $4.2 million due to defects identified in certain of our finished goods products. In the ordinary course of our business, we also encounter periodic sales returns due to non-conformity with customers’ specifications or product defects. In each case, we are required to replace our products promptly. Product defects and the possibility of product defects could cause significant damage to our market reputation and reduce our product sales and market share. If we cannot successfully maintain the consistency and quality throughout our production process, this will result in substandard quality or performance of our wafers, including their reduced photovoltaic efficiency and higher wafer breakage. If we deliver solar wafers with defects, or if there is a perception that our products are of substandard quality, we may incur substantially increased costs associated with replacements of wafers, our credibility and market reputation will be harmed and sales of our wafers may be adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents We will become subject to the management report and auditor attestation report requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act as of the end of our fiscal year ending December 31, 2008; if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and investor confidence and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely affected. Upon completion of our IPO in June 2007, we became a public company in the United States that is subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the related SEC rules require, beginning with our fiscal year ending December 31, 2008, that we evaluate the effectiveness, as of the end of each fiscal year, of our internal control over financial reporting and include in our annual reports on Form 20-F for each fiscal year (i) a report of our management on our internal control over financial reporting that contains, among other things, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of the most recent fiscal year, including a statement whether or not internal control over financial reporting is effective and (ii) the opinion of our registered public accounting firm, either unqualified or adverse, as to whether we maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of the end of such fiscal year. Our management and auditors will not be permitted to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective if there are one or more “material weaknesses” in our internal control over financial reporting, as defined in rules of the SEC and the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or the PCAOB. Our management or our auditors may conclude that our efforts to remediate the problems identified below were not successful or that otherwise our internal control over financial reporting is not effective. This could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our reporting processes, which could adversely impact the market price of our ADSs. We will need to incur significant costs and use significant management and other resources in order to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In the past, we had certain deficiencies in our internal controls. For example, in the course of auditing our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2006, our independent registered public accounting firm noted and communicated to us a significant deficiency and other weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. The significant deficiency identified by our independent registered public accounting firm was that our chief financial officer joined us in August 2006 and that we did not previously have any personnel who were familiar with U.S. GAAP. We did not have sufficient personnel with adequate expertise to ensure that we can produce financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP on a timely basis. As more fully described in “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — A. Operating Results — Internal Control over Financial Reporting,” following the identification of this significant deficiency and other weaknesses, we adopted certain steps, and we plan to implement additional steps, to address them and to improve our internal control over financial reporting generally. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and investor confidence and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely affected. If we are unable to attract, train and retain technicians and a skilled labor force, our business may be materially adversely affected. Our continued success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, train and retain technicians and a skilled labor force for our business. Recruiting and retaining capable technicians, particularly those with expertise in the solar power industry, are vital to our success. Our principal operations are located at Xinyu city of Jiangxi province, a relatively less developed region compared to coastal cities in China. Our location adds difficulties to our recruiting efforts. In addition, there exists substantial competition for qualified technicians in the solar power industry, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain technicians. Neither can we assure you that we will be able to recruit, train and retain skilled workers. If we fail to attract and retain qualified employees, our business and prospects may be materially adversely affected. Fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our business. A significant portion of our sales is denominated in Renminbi. Our costs and capital expenditures are largely denominated in U.S. dollars and euros. Therefore, fluctuations in currency exchange rates could have a material 23 Table of Contents adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in exchange rates, particularly among the U.S. dollar, Renminbi and euro, affect our gross and net profit margins and could result in foreign exchange and operating losses. Our financial statements are expressed in U.S. dollars but the functional currency of our principal operating subsidiaries, Jiangxi LDK Solar, Jiangxi LDK PV Silicon Technology Co., Ltd., or Jiangxi LDK PV Silicon and Jiangxi LDK Solar Polysilicon Co., Ltd., or Jiangxi LDK Polysilicon, is Renminbi. The value of your investment in our ADSs will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi. In addition, to the extent we hold assets denominated in U.S. dollars, including the net proceeds to us from this offering, any appreciation of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar could result in a charge to our income statement and a reduction in the value of our U.S. dollar denominated assets. On the other hand, if we decide to convert our Renminbi amounts into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs or for other business purposes, including foreign debt service, a decline in the value of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar could reduce the U.S. dollar equivalent amounts of the Renminbi we convert. In addition, a depreciation of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar could reduce the U.S. dollar equivalent amounts of our financial results, the value of your investment in our company and the dividends we may pay in the future, if any, all of which may have a material adverse effect on the price of our ADSs. We incurred a net foreign currency loss of $1.3 million and $1.7 million during the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2007, respectively. We cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations and may incur additional net foreign currency losses in the future. During the year ended December 31, 2007, we have entered into certain foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce the effect of our foreign exchange exposure, but we cannot assure you that such hedging activities will be effective in managing our foreign exchange risk exposure. Compliance with environmental regulations is expensive, and noncompliance may result in adverse publicity and potentially significant monetary damages and fines or suspension of our business operations. We are required to comply with all national and local regulations regarding protection of the environment. Compliance with environmental regulations is expensive. In addition, if more stringent regulations are adopted by the PRC government in the future, the costs of compliance with PRC environmental protection regulations could increase. Upon the completion of our polysilicon production facilities, we will use, generate, store and discharge toxic, volatile and otherwise hazardous chemicals and wastes in our research and development and production processes, and we are subject to regulations and periodic monitoring by local environmental protection authorities and are required to comply with all PRC national and local environmental protection laws and regulations. Under PRC environmental regulations, we are required to obtain a pollutant discharging permit and a safety appraisal, which includes a permit for the storage and use of hazardous chemicals and a permit for the use of atmospheric pressure containers, from relevant governmental authorities after we have completed the installation of our manufacturing lines but before the manufacturing lines commence commercial production. We are also required to undergo an environmental protection examination and obtain approval with relevant governmental authorities before the manufacturing lines commence full production. We have not yet obtained all of the necessary approvals and permits for our polysilicon production plant currently under construction, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these approvals and permits upon completion of the construction or at all. The relevant governmental authorities have the right to impose fines or a deadline to cure any non-compliance, or to order us to cease production if we fail to comply with these requirements. If we fail to comply with present or future environmental regulations, we may be subject to substantial fines or damages or suspension of our business operations, and our reputation may be harmed. We have limited insurance coverage and may incur losses resulting from product liability claims or business interruptions. We are exposed to risks associated with product liability claims in the event that the use of our solar wafers and ingots results in injury. Since our solar wafers and ingots are made into electricity producing devices, it is possible that users could be injured or killed by devices that use our solar wafers and ingots, whether by product malfunctions, defects, improper installations or other causes. Due to our limited historical experience, we are 24 Table of Contents unable to predict whether product liability claims will be brought against us in the future or to predict the effect of any resulting adverse publicity on our business. The successful assertion of product liability claims against us could result in potentially significant monetary damages and require us to make significant payments. Moreover, we do not carry any product liability insurance and may not have adequate resources to satisfy a judgment in the event of a successful claim against us. We do not carry any business interruption insurance. As the insurance industry in China is still in its early stage of development, even if we decide to take out business interruption coverage, such insurance available in China offers limited coverage compared to that offered in many other countries. Any business disruption or natural disaster could result in substantial losses and diversion of our resources. Increases in electricity costs or shortage or interruption of electricity supply may adversely affect our operations. We consume a significant amount of electricity in our wafer manufacture. In August 2006, as support to our wafer production in Xinyu city, the Xinyu Industry Development District government agreed to subsidize us for our utility charges over and above Rmb 0.40 per kilowatt-hour. At the current market rate of Rmb 0.59 per kilowatt-hour, we are effectively subsidized by Rmb 0.19, or $0.03, per kilowatt-hour we use for our wafer production. In the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2007, we received an aggregate of $0.8 million and $3.1 million in such government subsidies. This utility arrangement is valid for three years from August 2006 and may be extended only with consent of both parties. In addition, as support to our polysilicon production in Xinyu city, the Xinyu Industry Development District government further agreed in September 2007 to subsidize us for our utility charges over and above Rmb 0.25 per kilowatt-hour consumed by our polysilicon production. At the current market rate of Rmb 0.59 per kilowatt-hour, we are effectively subsidized by Rmb 0.34, or $0.04, per kilowatt-hour we use. We did not receive any such government subsidies during the year ended December 31, 2007 as our polysilicon production had not commenced. This new utility arrangement is valid from the commencement of our polysilicon production operations. Although this agreement does not provide for an expiration date, there is no assurance that the government will not terminate it for reasons beyond our control. Polysilicon production is energy-intensive and is highly dependent on continuous electricity supply. Our results of operations will be materially adversely affected if our electricity supply is interrupted or electricity costs increase upon expiration or termination of our arrangements with the government. Moreover, with the rapid development of the PRC economy, demand for electricity has continued to increase. There have been shortages in electricity supply in various regions across China, especially during winter when weather is bad and during summer peak seasons. For instance, in early 2008, due to severe weather conditions over a period of two weeks, supply of electricity to our plant was curtailed as a result of destructions of some of the national grid lines in certain provinces in China, including Jiangxi. Consequently, we experienced delays in some of our shipments to customers and some of the shipments from our suppliers as a result of highway closures and power outages in various parts of China. In the summer of 2006, our production was also significantly disrupted due to power blackouts in Xinyu city. To prevent similar peak season blackouts, we have installed a backup power transformer substation at our Xinyu site with an installed capacity of 40 million volt-amperes to support our current operations. In addition, we have substantially completed the installation of another backup power transformer substation at our Xinyu site with the same capacity to support our expansion program through the end of 2008. However, we cannot assure you that there will be no interruption or shortages in our electricity supply or that there will be sufficient electricity available to us to meet our future requirements. Increases in electricity costs or shortages in electricity supply may disrupt our normal operations and adversely affect our profitability. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights, know-how and technology may undermine our competitive position. We have developed various production process related know-how and technologies in the production of solar wafers and ingots. Such know-how and technologies play a critical role in our quality assurance and cost reduction. In addition, we have implemented a number of research and development programs with a view to developing techniques and processes that will improve production efficiency and product quality. Our intellectual property and proprietary rights arising out of these research and development programs will be crucial in maintaining our competitive edge in the solar wafer industry. We currently do not have any patent or patent application pending in 25 Table of Contents China or elsewhere. We currently use contractual arrangements with employees and trade secret protections to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. Nevertheless, contractual arrangements afford only limited protection and the actions we may take to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights may not be adequate. In addition, others may obtain knowledge of our know-how and technologies through independent development. Our failure to protect our production process related know-how and technologies and/or our intellectual property and proprietary rights may undermine our competitive position. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our proprietary technologies or other intellectual property and proprietary rights. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology can be difficult and expensive. Also, litigation, which can be costly and divert management attention and other resources away from our business, may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights. We cannot assure you that the outcome of such potential litigation will be in our favor. An adverse determination in any such litigation will impair our intellectual property and proprietary rights and may harm our business, prospects and reputation. We may be exposed to infringement, misappropriation or other claims by third parties and an adverse determination could result in us paying significant damages. Our success depends on our ability to use and develop our technology and know-how and to manufacture and sell our solar wafers and ingots without infringing the intellectual property or other rights of third parties. We do not have, and have not applied for, any patents for our proprietary technologies in China or elsewhere. We may be subject to litigation involving claims of patent infringement or violation of intellectual property rights of third parties. The validity and scope of claims relating to solar power technology patents involve complex scientific, legal and factual questions and analyses and, therefore, may be highly uncertain. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, patent opposition proceedings, trademark disputes and related legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert our resources and the attention of our technical and management personnel. An adverse ruling in any such litigation or proceedings could subject us to significant liability to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties, to pay ongoing royalties, or to redesign our products or subject us to injunctions prohibiting the manufacture and sale of our products or the use of our technologies. Protracted litigation could also result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our products until resolution of such litigation. We have granted, and may continue to grant, stock options under our stock incentive plan and our net income could be adversely impacted. We adopted a stock incentive plan in 2006. As of the date of this report, we have outstanding stock options under our stock incentive plan with respect to 10,647,803 ordinary shares, of which 8,147,017 were granted to our directors, employees, consultants and service providers. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 123R, “Share-Based Payment.” This statement, which became effective in the first quarter of 2006, prescribes how we account for share-based compensation and may have an adverse impact on our results of operations or the price of our ADSs. SFAS No. 123R requires us to recognize share-based compensation as compensation expense in the statement of operations based on the fair value of equity awards on the date of the grant, with the compensation expense recognized over the period in which the recipient is required to provide service in exchange for the equity award. The additional expenses associated with share-based compensation may reduce the attractiveness of issuing stock options under our stock incentive plan. However, if we do not grant stock options or reduce the number of stock options that we grant, we may not be able to attract and retain key personnel. If we grant more stock options to attract and retain key personnel, the expenses associated with share-based compensation may adversely affect our net income. 26 Table of Contents Most of our production, storage, administrative and research and development facilities are located in close proximity to one another in Xinyu city of Jiangxi province. Any damage or disruption at these facilities would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our production, storage, administrative, research and development facilities are located in close proximity to one another in Xinyu city of Jiangxi province in China. A natural disaster such as fire, floods, typhoons or earthquakes, or other unanticipated catastrophic events, including power interruption, telecommunications failures, equipment failures, explosions, fires, break-ins, terrorist acts or war, could significantly disrupt our ability to manufacture our products and operate our business. If any of our production facilities or material equipment were to experience any significant damage or downtime, we would be unable to meet our production targets and our business would suffer. Any damage or disruption at these facilities would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Business Operations in China Changes in PRC political and economic policies and conditions could adversely affect our business and prospects. China has been, and will continue to be, our primary production base and currently almost all of our assets are located in China. While the PRC government has been pursuing economic reforms to transform its economy from a planned economy to a market-oriented economy since 1978, a substantial part of the PRC economy is still being operated under various controls of the PRC government. By imposing industrial policies and other economic measures, such as control of foreign exchange, taxation and foreign investment, the PRC government exerts considerable direct and indirect influence on the development of the PRC economy. Many of the economic reforms carried out by the PRC government are unprecedented or experimental and are expected to be refined and improved over time. Other political, economic and social factors may also lead to further adjustments of the PRC reform measures. This refining and adjustment process may not necessarily have a positive effect on our operations and our future business development. For example, the PRC government has in the past implemented a number of measures intended to slow down certain segments of the PRC economy that the government believed to be overheating, including raising benchmark interest rates of commercial banks, reducing money supply and placing additional limitations on the ability of commercial banks to make loans by raising bank reserves against deposits. Our business, prospects and results of operations may be materially adversely affected by changes in the PRC economic and social conditions and by changes in the policies of the PRC government, such as measures to control inflation, changes in the rates or method of taxation and the imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion. Changes in foreign exchange and foreign investment regulations in China may affect our ability to invest in China and the ability of our PRC subsidiary to pay dividends and service debts in foreign currencies. Renminbi is not a freely convertible currency at present. The PRC government regulates conversion between Renminbi and foreign currencies. Changes in PRC laws and regulations on foreign exchange may result in uncertainties in our financing and operating plans in China. Over the years, China has significantly reduced the government’s control over routine foreign exchange transactions under current accounts, including trade and service related foreign exchange transactions, payment of dividends and service of foreign debts. In accordance with the existing foreign exchange regulations in China, our PRC subsidiary, Jiangxi LDK Solar, is able to pay dividends and service debts in foreign currencies without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, there can be no assurance that the current PRC foreign exchange policies regarding debt service and payment of dividends in foreign currencies will continue in the future. Changes in PRC foreign exchange policies may have a negative impact on the ability of our PRC subsidiary to service its foreign currency-denominated indebtedness and to distribute dividends to us in foreign currencies. Foreign exchange transactions by our PRC subsidiary under the capital account continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls. Subsequent to this offering, we have the choice, as permitted by the PRC foreign investment regulations, to invest our net proceeds from this offering in the form of registered capital or a shareholder loan into our PRC subsidiary to finance our operations in China. Our choice of investment is affected by 27 Table of Contents the relevant PRC regulations with respect to capital-account and current-account foreign exchange transactions in China. In addition, our transfer of funds to our subsidiary in China is subject to approval by PRC governmental authorities in case of an increase in registered capital, or subject to registration with PRC governmental authorities in case of a shareholder loan. These limitations on the flow of funds between us and our PRC subsidiary could restrict our ability to act in response to changing market conditions. The uncertain legal environment in China could have a negative impact on our business and prospects and also limit the legal protections available to you. Our principal operating subsidiaries, Jiangxi LDK Solar, Jiangxi LDK PV Silicon and Jiangxi LDK Polysilicon, are wholly foreign-owned enterprises in China and are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China in general and laws and regulations applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises in particular. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike the common law system, the civil law system is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. When the PRC government started its economic reform in 1978, it began to formulate and promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations to provide general guidance on economic and business practices in China and to regulate foreign investments. China has made significant progress in the promulgation of laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. However, the promulgation of new laws, changes in existing laws and abrogation of local regulations by national laws may have a negative impact on our business and prospects. In addition, as these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent and because of the limited volume of published cases and their non-binding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws, regulations and legal requirements involve significant uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to foreign investors, including you. Expiration of, or changes to, current PRC tax incentives that our business enjoys could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Under former PRC laws and regulations, a company established in China was typically subject to a national enterprise income tax at the rate of 30% on its taxable income and a local enterprise income tax at the rate of 3% on its taxable income. The PRC government provided various incentives to foreign-invested enterprises to encourage foreign investments. Such incentives include reduced tax rates and other measures. Foreign-invested enterprises that were determined by PRC tax authorities to be manufacturing companies with authorized terms of operation for more than ten years were eligible for: • a two-year exemption from the national enterprise income tax beginning with their first profitable year; and • a 50% reduction of their applicable national enterprise income tax rate for the succeeding three years. The local preferential enterprise taxation treatment was within the jurisdiction of the local provincial authorities as permitted under the prior PRC tax laws relating to foreign-invested enterprises. The local tax authorities would decide whether to grant any tax preferential treatment to foreign-invested enterprises on basis of their local conditions. The Jiangxi provincial government announced that energy companies with authorized terms of operation for more than ten years were eligible for: • a five-year exemption from the 3% local enterprise income tax from their first profitable year; and • a 50% reduction of their local enterprise income tax rate for the succeeding five years. Under former PRC laws and regulations, Jiangxi LDK Solar, as a foreign invested manufacturing enterprise was entitled to a two-year exemption from the national enterprise income tax for 2006 and 2007 and would be subject to a reduced national enterprise income tax rate of 15% from 2008 through 2010. Likewise, Jiangxi LDK Solar was entitled to a five-year exemption from the local enterprise income tax beginning in 2006 and would be subject to a reduced local enterprise income tax rate of 1.5% from 2011 through 2015. When these tax benefits expire, the effective tax rate of Jiangxi LDK Solar will increase, which will result in an increase in our income tax expenses. Jiangxi LDK PV Silicon and Jiangxi LDK Polysilicon do not enjoy any preferential tax treatment in China. 28 Table of Contents In March 2007, the National People’s Congress of China enacted a new Enterprise Income Tax Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. The new tax law imposes a unified income tax rate of 25% on all domestic enterprises and foreign-invested enterprises unless they qualify under certain limited exceptions. The new tax law permits companies to continue to enjoy their preferential tax treatment under the prior tax regime until such treatment expires in accordance with its terms, on the condition that such preferential tax treatment is available under the grandfather clause of the new tax law. If our current tax benefits expire or otherwise become unavailable to us for any reason, our profitability may be materially adversely affected. We may be deemed a PRC resident enterprise under the new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and be subject to the PRC taxation on our worldwide income. We are Cayman Islands holding company with substantially all of our operations conducted through our operating subsidiaries in China. Under the Income Tax Law for Enterprises with Foreign Investment and Foreign Enterprises effective prior to January 1, 2008, any dividends payable by foreign-invested enterprises, such as our PRC subsidiaries, to their non-PRC investors, such as our Cayman Islands holding company, were exempt from any PRC withholding tax. In addition, any dividends payable, or distributions made, by us to holders or beneficial owners of our ADSs would not have been subject to any PRC tax, provided that such holders or beneficial owners, including individuals and enterprises, were not deemed to be PRC residents under the PRC tax law and had not become subject to PRC tax. Under the new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, if our Cayman Islands holding company continues to be treated as a foreign investor, or a “non-resident enterprise” as defined in the new tax law, dividends and distributions from our PRC subsidiaries to us will be subject to a 10% withholding tax. The Cayman Islands where we are incorporated has no tax treaty with China entitling us to any withholding tax lower than 10%. The new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, however, also provides that enterprises established outside China whose “de facto management bodies” are located in China are considered “resident enterprises” and will generally be subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate as to their global income. Under the implementation regulations issued by the State Council relating to the new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, “de facto management bodies” is defined as the bodies that have material and overall management control over the business, personnel, accounts and properties of an enterprise. Substantially all of our management is currently based in China, and may remain in China. Therefore, we may be treated as a PRC resident enterprise for PRC enterprise income tax purposes subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate as to our global income. See the risk factor entitled “— Dividends payable by us to our foreign investors and gain on the sale of our ADSs may become subject to withholding taxes under PRC tax laws” below. Dividends payable by us to our foreign investors may become subject to withholding taxes under PRC tax laws. Under the new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation regulations, PRC income tax at the rate of 10% is applicable to dividends payable to investors that are “non-resident enterprises” (and that do not have an establishment or place of business in China, or that have such establishment or place of business but the relevant income is not effectively connected with such establishment or place of business) to the extent such dividends are sourced within China and we are considered a “resident enterprise” in China. Similarly, any gain realized on the transfer of our shares or ADSs representing our shares by such investors is also subject to 10% PRC income tax if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within China and we are considered a “resident enterprise” in China. If we are required under the new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law to withhold PRC income tax on our dividends payable to our foreign shareholders, or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of the ADSs, the value of your investment in our shares or ADSs may be materially adversely affected. We rely principally on dividends paid by our subsidiaries to fund our cash and financing requirements, and any limitation on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We are a holding company and rely principally on dividends paid by our subsidiaries for cash requirements, including the funds necessary to service any debt we incur. If any of our subsidiaries incurs debt in its own name in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict dividends or other distributions on its equity interest to 29 Table of Contents us. Furthermore, applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations permit payment of dividends by our PRC entities on a combined basis only out of their retained earnings, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards. Our PRC entities are required to set aside a certain percentage of their after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year for their reserve fund in accordance with the requirements of relevant laws and provisions in their respective articles of associations. As a result, our PRC entities combined may be restricted in their ability to transfer any portion of their net income to us whether in the form of dividends, loans or advances. Any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us could materially adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends or otherwise fund and conduct our business. Under the new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and implementation regulations, PRC income tax at the rate of 10% is applicable to dividends paid by PRC enterprises to “non-resident enterprises” (enterprises that do not have an establishment or place of business in China, or that have such establishment or place of business but the relevant income is not effectively connected with such establishment or place of business) subject to the application of any relevant income tax treaty that China has entered into, which provides for a lower withholding tax rate. If we or our non-PRC subsidiaries are considered “non-resident enterprises,” any dividend that we or any such non-PRC subsidiary receive from our PRC subsidiaries may be subject to PRC taxation at the 10% rate (or lower treaty rate). Recent PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident shareholders to personal liability and limit our ability to acquire PRC companies or to inject capital into our PRC subsidiary, limit our PRC subsidiary’s ability to distribute profits to us, or otherwise materially adversely affect us. The SAFE issued a public notice in October 2005, together with its implementation procedures and May 2007 clarifications issued by SAFE, or the SAFE notice, requiring PRC residents, including both legal persons and natural persons, to register with the competent local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside China, referred to as an “offshore special purpose company,” for the purpose of acquiring any assets of or equity interest in PRC companies and raising funds from overseas. In addition, any PRC resident that is the shareholder of an offshore special purpose company is required to amend its SAFE registration with the local SAFE branch with respect to that offshore special purpose company in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, merger, division, equity investment or creation of any security interest over any assets located in China. If any PRC shareholder of an offshore special purpose company fails to make the required SAFE registration and amendment, the PRC subsidiaries of that offshore special purpose company may be prohibited from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to the offshore special purpose company. Moreover, failure to comply with the SAFE registration and amendment requirements described above could result in liability under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. Our current beneficial owners who are PRC residents have registered with the local SAFE branch as required under the SAFE notice. The failure of these beneficial owners to amend their SAFE registrations in a timely manner pursuant to the SAFE notice or the failure of future beneficial owners of our company who are PRC residents to comply with the registration procedures set forth in the SAFE notice may subject such beneficial owners to fines and legal sanctions and may also result in restrictions on our PRC subsidiary’s ability to distribute profits to us or otherwise materially adversely affect our business. We face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks of contagious diseases, including avian influenza, or avian flu, and SARS. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of avian flu, SARS or other epidemic outbreak. There have been reports of outbreaks of a highly pathogenic avian flu, caused by the H5N1 virus, in certain regions of Asia and Europe. In 2005 and 2006, there were reports on the occurrences of avian flu in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases. An outbreak of avian flu in the human population could result in a widespread health crisis that could adversely affect the economies and financial markets of many countries, particularly in Asia. Additionally, any recurrence of SARS, a highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia, similar to the occurrence in 2003 which affected China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore, Vietnam and certain other countries, would also have similar adverse effects. These outbreaks of contagious diseases and other adverse public health developments in China would have a material adverse effect on our business operations. These could include our ability to travel or 30 Table of Contents ship our products outside China as well as temporary closure of our manufacturing facilities. Such closures or travel or shipment restrictions would severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future outbreak of avian flu, SARS or any other epidemic. Risks Relating to Our ADSs and Shares Future issuances of ordinary shares, ADSs or equity-linked securities may dilute the ownership interest of our existing shareholders and depress the trading price of our ADSs. Any future issuance by us of ordinary shares, ADSs or equity-linked securities could dilute the interests of our existing shareholders and could depress the trading price of our ADSs. We may issue equity-linked securities, such as convertible notes, in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operation and business expansion plans, acquisitions, strategic collaborations or other transactions, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity and to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of outstanding warrants or options or for other reasons. Sales of a substantial number of ADSs or other equity-linked securities in the public market could depress the market price of our ADSs, and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity or equity-linked securities. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of our ADSs or other equity-linked securities would have on the market price of our ADSs. Holders of ADSs have fewer rights than shareholders and must act through the depositary to exercise those rights. Holders of ADSs do not have the same rights of our shareholders and may only exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under our amended and restated articles of association, the minimum notice period required to convene a general meeting is 10 days. When a general meeting is convened, ADS holders may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit such holders to withdraw their ordinary shares to allow them to cast their vote with respect to any specific matter. If requested in writing by us, the depositary will mail a notice of such a meeting to ADS holders. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to ADS holders or carry out ADS holders’ voting instructions in a timely manner. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if the ADSs are not voted as you requested. In addition, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to call a shareholder meeting. You may be subject to limitations on transfers of your ADSs. The ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. The right of ADS holders to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to their holdings and they may not receive cash dividends if it is impractical to make them available to such holders. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to ADS holders in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not make rights available to ADS holders unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act, or exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We 31 Table of Contents are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, in the event we conduct any rights offering in the future, the depositary may not make such rights available to holders of ADSs or may dispose of such rights and make the net proceeds available to such holders. As a result, ADS holders may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings. In addition, the depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to ADS holders the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. ADS holders will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares their ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. As a result, the depositary may decide not to make the distribution and ADS holders will not receive such distribution. Our articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could have a material adverse effect on the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Our articles of association limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix their designations, powers, preferences, privileges, and relative participating, optional or special rights and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares, in the form of ADS or otherwise. Preferred shares could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. If our board of directors decides to issue preferred shares, the price of our ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be materially adversely affected. We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than that under U.S. law, ADS holders may have less protection for their shareholder rights than such holders would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as that from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. Substantially all of our assets and a substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. The Cayman Islands courts are also unlikely: • to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; and 32 Table of Contents • to impose liabilities against us, in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will generally recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a U.S. public company. You may have difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us. We are a Cayman Islands company and substantially all of our assets are located outside the United States. Substantially all of our current operations are conducted in China. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands or the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. It is also uncertain whether such Cayman Islands or PRC courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands or China against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. 