Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business depends on film production and performance. Our business depends on both the availability of suitable films for exhibition in our theatres and the success of those films in our markets. Poor performance of films, the disruption in the production of films due to events such as a strike by directors, writers or actors, a reduction in financing options for the film distributors, or a reduction in the marketing efforts of the film distributors to promote their films could have an adverse effect on our business by resulting in fewer patrons and reduced revenues. 13 Table of Contents A deterioration in relationships with film distributors could adversely affect our ability to obtain commercially successful films. We rely on the film distributors to supply the films shown in our theatres. The film distribution business is highly concentrated, with six major film distributors accounting for approximately 83% of U.S. box office revenues and 46 of the top 50 grossing films during 2011. Numerous antitrust cases and consent decrees resulting from these antitrust cases impact the distribution of films. The consent decrees bind certain major film distributors to license films to exhibitors on a theatre-by-theatre and film-by-film basis. Consequently, we cannot guarantee a supply of films by entering into long-term arrangements with major distributors. We are therefore required to negotiate licenses for each film and for each theatre. A deterioration in our relationship with any of the six major film distributors could adversely affect our ability to obtain commercially successful films and to negotiate favorable licensing terms for such films, both of which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our results of operations vary from period to period based upon the quantity and quality of the motion pictures that we show in our theatres. Our results of operations vary from period to period based upon the quantity and quality of the motion pictures that we show in our theatres. The major film distributors generally release the films they anticipate will be most successful during the summer and holiday seasons. Consequently, we typically generate higher revenues during these periods. Due to the dependency on the success of films released from one period to the next, results of operations for one period may not be indicative of the results for the following period or the same period in the following year. We face intense competition for patrons and films which may adversely affect our business. The motion picture industry is highly competitive. We compete against local, regional, national and international exhibitors. We compete for both patrons and licensing of films. The competition for patrons is dependent upon such factors as location, theatre capacity, quality of projection and sound equipment, film showtime availability, customer service quality, and ticket prices. The principal competitive factors with respect to film licensing include the theatre’s location and its demographics, the condition, capacity and revenue potential of each theatre and licensing terms. If we are unable to attract patrons or to license successful films, our business may be adversely affected. An increase in the use of alternative or “downstream” film distribution channels and other competing forms of entertainment may reduce movie theatre attendance and limit revenue growth. We face competition for patrons from a number of alternative film distribution channels, such as DVDs, network and syndicated television, video on-demand, pay-per-view television and the Internet. We also compete with other forms of entertainment, such as concerts, theme parks and sporting events, for our patrons’ leisure time and disposable income. A significant increase in popularity of these alternative film distribution channels or competing forms of entertainment could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our results of operations may be impacted by shrinking video release windows. Over the last decade, the average video release window, which represents the time that elapses from the date of a film’s theatrical release to the date a film is available on DVD, an important downstream market, has decreased from approximately six months to approximately three to four months. If patrons choose to wait for a DVD release rather than attend a theatre for viewing the film, it may adversely impact our business and results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Film studios have started to offer consumers a premium video on demand option for certain films 60 days following the theatrical release, which caused the release window to shrink further for certain films. We cannot assure you that these release windows, which are determined by the film studios, will not shrink further or be eliminated altogether, which could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents We have substantial long-term lease and debt obligations, which may restrict our ability to fund current and future operations and that restrict our ability to enter into certain transactions. We have, and will continue to have, significant long-term debt service obligations and long-term lease obligations. As of December 31, 2011, we had $1,572.2 million in long-term debt obligations, $141.2 million in capital lease obligations and $1,904.0 million in long-term operating lease obligations. We incurred interest expense of $123.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. We incurred $276.3 million of facility lease expense under operating leases for the year ended December 31, 2011 (the terms under these operating leases, excluding optional renewal periods, range from one to 25 years). Our substantial lease and debt obligations pose risk to you by: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations; • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows to payments on our lease and debt obligations, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other corporate requirements and to pay dividends; • impeding our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate purposes; • subjecting us to the risk of increased sensitivity to interest rate increases on our variable rate debt, including our borrowings under our senior secured credit facility; and • making us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business and competitive pressures and limiting our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our industry or the economy. Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal and interest with respect to our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate positive cash flows and on our future financial results. Our ability to generate positive cash flows is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will continue to generate cash flows at current levels, or that future borrowings will be available under our senior secured credit facility, in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our lease and debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to take any of these actions, and these actions may not be successful or permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations and these actions may be restricted under the terms of our existing or future debt agreements, including our senior secured credit facility. The senior secured credit facility restricts our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from the disposition. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or the proceeds may not be adequate to meet our debt service obligations. If we fail to make any required payment under the agreements governing our leases and indebtedness or fail to comply with the financial and operating covenants contained in them, we would be in default, and as a result, our debt holders would have the ability to require that we immediately repay our outstanding indebtedness and the lenders under our senior secured credit facility could terminate their commitments to lend us money and foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings. We could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation, which could result in the loss of your investment. The acceleration of our indebtedness under one agreement may permit acceleration of indebtedness under other agreements that contain cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to repay our indebtedness or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if we are able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms or on terms that are acceptable to us. If our debt holders require immediate payment, we may not have sufficient assets to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness. General political, social and economic conditions can adversely affect our attendance. Our results of operations are dependent on general political, social and economic conditions, and the impact of such conditions on our theatre operating costs and on the willingness of consumers to spend money at movie 15 Table of Contents theatres. If consumers’ discretionary income declines as a result of an economic downturn, our operations could be adversely affected. If theatre operating costs, such as utility costs, increase due to political or economic changes, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Political events, such as terrorist attacks, and health-related epidemics, such as flu outbreaks, could cause people to avoid our theatres or other public places where large crowds are in attendance. In addition, a natural disaster, such as a hurricane or an earthquake, could impact our ability to operate certain of our theatres, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our foreign operations are subject to adverse regulations, economic instability and currency exchange risk. We have 159 theatres with 1,274 screens in thirteen countries in Latin America. Brazil represented approximately 15.7% of our consolidated 2011 revenues. Governmental regulation of the motion picture industry in foreign markets differs from that in the United States. Changes in regulations affecting prices, quota systems requiring the exhibition of locally-produced films and restrictions on ownership of property may adversely affect our international operations. Our international operations are subject to certain political, economic and other uncertainties not encountered by our domestic operations, including risks of severe economic downturns and high inflation. We also face risks of currency fluctuations, hard currency shortages and controls of foreign currency exchange and transfers abroad, all of which could have an adverse effect on the results of our international operations. We may not be able to generate additional revenues or continue to realize value from our investment in NCM. In 2005, we joined Regal and AMC as founding members of NCM, a provider of digital advertising content and digital non-film event content. As of December 31, 2011, we had an ownership interest in NCM of approximately 16%. We receive a monthly theatre access fee under our Exhibitor Services Agreement with NCM and we are entitled to receive mandatory quarterly distributions of excess cash from NCM. During the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2011, the Company received approximately $5.0 million and $5.9 million in other revenues from NCM, respectively, and $23.4 million and $24.2 million in cash distributions in excess of our investment in NCM, respectively. Cinema advertising is a small component of the U.S. advertising market and therefore, NCM competes with larger, established and well known media platforms such as broadcast radio and television, cable and satellite television, outdoor advertising and Internet portals. NCM also competes with other cinema advertising companies and with hotels, conference centers, arenas, restaurants and convention facilities for its non-film related events to be shown or held in our auditoriums. In-theatre advertising may not continue to attract advertisers or NCM’s in-theatre advertising format may not continue to be received favorably by theatre patrons. If NCM is unable to continue to generate consistent advertising revenues, its results of operations may be adversely affected and our investment in and distributions and revenues from NCM may be adversely impacted. We are subject to uncertainties related to digital cinema, including insufficient financing to obtain digital projectors and insufficient supply of digital projectors for our international locations. We began a roll-out of digital projection equipment in our international theatres during 2009 which has been funded by operating cash flows. There is no local financing available to finance the deployment of digital projectors for our international theatres. Accordingly, the cost of digital projection systems and manufacturer limitations may delay our international deployment. We are subject to uncertainties relating to future expansion plans, including our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates or site locations, and to obtain financing for such activities on favorable terms or at all. We have greatly expanded our operations over the last decade through targeted worldwide theatre development and acquisitions. We will continue to pursue a strategy of expansion that will involve the 16 Table of Contents development of new theatres and may involve acquisitions of existing theatres and theatre circuits both in the U.S. and internationally. There is significant competition for new site locations and for existing theatre and theatre circuit acquisition opportunities. As a result of such competition, we may not be able to acquire attractive site locations, existing theatres or theatre circuits on terms we consider acceptable. Acquisitions and expansion opportunities may divert a significant amount of management’s time away from the operation of our business. Growth by acquisition also involves risks relating to difficulties in integrating the operations and personnel of acquired companies and the potential loss of key employees of acquired companies. We cannot assure you that our expansion strategy will result in improvements to our business, financial condition, profitability, or cash flows. Further, our expansion programs may require financing above our existing borrowing capacity and operating cash flows. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such financing or that such financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we do not comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and the safe harbor framework included in the consent order we entered into with the Department of Justice, or the DOJ, we could be subject to further litigation. Our theatres must comply with Title III of the ADA and analogous state and local laws. Compliance with the ADA requires among other things that public facilities “reasonably accommodate” individuals with disabilities and that new construction or alterations made to “commercial facilities” conform to accessibility guidelines unless “structurally impracticable” for new construction or technically infeasible for alterations. On November 15, 2004, we and the Department of Justice, or DOJ, entered into a consent order, which was filed with the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio, Eastern Division. Under the consent order, the DOJ approved a safe harbor framework for us to construct all of our future stadium-style movie theatres. The DOJ has stipulated that all theatres built in compliance with the consent order will comply with the wheelchair seating requirements of the ADA. If we fail to comply with the ADA, remedies could include imposition of injunctive relief, fines, awards for damages to private litigants and additional capital expenditures to remedy non-compliance. Imposition of significant fines, damage awards or capital expenditures to cure non-compliance could adversely affect our business and operating results. We depend on key personnel for our current and future performance. Our current and future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and other key personnel. The loss or unavailability to us of any member of our senior management team or a key employee could significantly harm us. We cannot assure you that we would be able to locate or employ qualified replacements for senior management or key employees on acceptable terms. We are subject to impairment losses due to potential declines in the fair value of our assets. We review long-lived assets for impairment indicators on a quarterly basis or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the assets may not be fully recoverable. We assess many factors when determining whether to impair individual theatre assets, including actual theatre level cash flows, future years budgeted theatre level cash flows, theatre property and equipment carrying values, amortizing intangible asset carrying values, the age of a recently built theatre, competitive theatres in the marketplace, the impact of recent ticket price changes, available lease renewal options and other factors considered relevant in our assessment of impairment of individual theatre assets. Long-lived assets are evaluated for impairment on an individual theatre basis, which we believe is the lowest applicable level for which there are identifiable cash flows. When estimated fair value is determined to be lower than the carrying value of the theatre assets, the theatre assets are written down to their estimated fair value. Fair value is determined based on a multiple of cash flows, which was six and a half times for the evaluations performed during 2009, 2010 and 2011. Significant judgment is involved in estimating cash flows and fair value. Management’s estimates, which fall under Level 3 of the U.S. GAAP fair value hierarchy as defined by Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC, Topic 820-10-35, are based on historical and projected operating 17 Table of Contents performance, recent market transactions and current industry trading multiples. Since we evaluate long-lived assets for impairment at the theatre level, if a theatre is directly and individually impacted by increased competition, adverse changes in market demographics or adverse changes in the development or condition of the areas surrounding the theatre, we may record impairment charges to reflect the decline in estimated fair value of that theatre. We have a significant amount of goodwill. We evaluate goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level at least annually during the fourth quarter or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of goodwill may not be fully recoverable. Goodwill is evaluated for impairment using a two-step approach under which we compute the fair value of a reporting unit and compare it with its carrying value. If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, a second step would be performed to measure the potential goodwill impairment. Fair values are determined based on a multiple of cash flows, which was six and a half times for the evaluations performed during 2009 and 2010 and seven and a half times for the evaluation performed during 2011. Significant judgment is involved in estimating cash flows and fair value. Management’s estimates, which fall under Level 3 of the U.S. GAAP fair value hierarchy as defined by FASB ASC Topic 820-10-35, are based on historical and projected operating performance, recent market transactions and current industry trading multiples. Declines in our stock price or market capitalization, declines in our attendance due to increased competition in certain regions and/or countries or economic factors that lead to a decline in attendance in any given region or country could negatively affect our estimated fair values and could result in further impairments of goodwill. As of December 31, 2011, the fair value of goodwill for all of our reporting units exceeded their estimated carrying values by at least 10%. We also have a significant amount of tradename intangible assets. Tradename intangible assets are tested for impairment at least annually during the fourth quarter or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be fully recoverable. We estimate the fair value of our tradenames by applying an estimated market royalty rate that could be charged for the use of our tradename to forecasted future revenues, with an adjustment for the present value of such royalties. If the estimated fair value is less than the carrying value, the tradename intangible asset is written down to its estimated fair value. Significant judgment is involved in estimating market royalty rates and long-term revenue forecasts. Management’s estimates, which fall under Level 3 of the U.S. GAAP fair value hierarchy as defined by FASB ASC Topic 820-10-35, are based on historical and projected revenue performance and industry trends. As of December 31, 2011, the fair value of our tradename intangible assets exceeded their estimated carrying values by at least 10%. We recorded asset impairment charges, including goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges, of $11.8 million, $12.5 million and $7.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. We cannot assure you that additional impairment charges will not be required in the future, and such charges may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Notes 10 and 11 to the consolidated financial statements. A failure to adapt to future technological innovations could impact our ability to compete effectively and could adversely affect our results of operations. While we are continuing to transition our theatres to digital projection technology, new technological innovations continue to impact our industry. If we are unable to respond to or invest in changes in technology and the technological preferences of our customers, we may not be able to compete with other exhibitors or other entertainment venues, which could adversely affect our results of operations. The impairment or insolvency of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. We have exposure to different counterparties with regard to our interest rate swap agreements. These transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by one or more of our counterparties to such 18 Table of Contents agreements. We also have exposure to financial institutions used as depositories of our corporate cash balances. If our counterparties or financial institutions become impaired or insolvent, this could have an adverse impact on our results of operations or impair our ability to access our cash. A credit market crisis may adversely affect our ability to raise capital and may materially impact our operations. Severe dislocations and liquidity disruptions in the credit markets could materially impact our ability to obtain debt financing on reasonable terms or at all. The inability to access debt financing on reasonable terms could materially impact our ability to make acquisitions or significantly expand our business in the future. We may be subject to liability under environmental laws and regulations. We own and operate a large number of theatres and other properties within the United States and internationally, which may be subject to various foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment or human health. Such environmental laws and regulations include those that impose liability for the investigation and remediation of spills or releases of hazardous materials. We may incur such liability, including for any currently or formerly owned, leased or operated property, or for any site, to which we may have disposed, or arranged for the disposal of, hazardous materials or wastes. Certain of these laws and regulations may impose liability, including on a joint and several liability, which can result in a liable party being obliged to pay for greater than its share, regardless of fault or the legality of the original disposal. Environmental conditions relating to our properties or operations could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations and cash flows. Our ability to pay dividends may be limited or otherwise restricted. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by our status as a holding company and the terms of our senior notes indenture, our senior subordinated notes indenture, and our senior secured credit facility, which restrict our ability to pay dividends and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to pay dividends, directly or indirectly, to us. Under our debt instruments, we may pay a cash dividend up to a specified amount, provided we have satisfied certain financial covenants in, and are not in default under, our debt instruments. The declaration of future dividends on our common stock, par value $0.001 per share, or Common Stock, will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including our results of operations, financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, limitations in our debt agreements and legal requirements. Provisions in our corporate documents and certain agreements, as well as Delaware law, may hinder a change of control. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, could discourage unsolicited proposals to acquire us, even though such proposals may be beneficial to you. These provisions include: • authorization of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval; • a board of directors classified into three classes of directors with the directors of each class having staggered, three-year terms; • provisions regulating the ability of our stockholders to nominate directors for election or to bring matters for action at annual meetings of our stockholders; and • provisions of Delaware law that restrict many business combinations and provide that directors serving on classified boards of directors, such as ours, may be removed only for cause. Certain provisions of our 8.625% senior notes indenture, our 7.375% senior subordinated notes indenture and our senior secured credit facility may have the effect of delaying or preventing future transactions involving 19 Table of Contents a “change of control.” A “change of control” would require us to make an offer to the holders of our 8.625% senior notes to repurchase all of the outstanding notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount outstanding plus accrued unpaid interest to the date of the purchase. A “change of control”, as defined in the senior subordinated notes indenture, would require us to make an offer to repurchase the senior subordinated notes at a price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount outstanding plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, through the date of repurchase. A “change of control” would also be an event of default under our senior secured credit facility. The market price of our Common Stock may be volatile. There can be no assurance that an active trading market for our Common Stock will continue. The securities markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in recent years and the market prices of the securities of companies have been particularly volatile. This market volatility, as well as general economic or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our Common Stock regardless of our operating performance. In addition, our operating results could be below the expectations of investment analysts and investors and, in response, the market price of our Common Stock may decrease significantly and prevent investors from reselling their shares of our Common Stock at or above a market price that is favorable to other stockholders. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the subject of securities class action litigation. If we were the subject of securities class action litigation, it could result in substantial costs, liabilities and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. Future sales of our Common Stock may adversely affect the prevailing market price. If a large number of shares of our Common Stock is sold in the open market, or if there is a perception that such sales will occur, the trading price of our Common Stock could decrease. In addition, the sale of these shares could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional Common Stock. As of December 31, 2011, we had an aggregate of 181,286,739 shares of our Common Stock authorized but unissued and not reserved for specific purposes. In general, we may issue all of these shares without any action or approval by our stockholders. We may issue shares of our Common Stock in connection with acquisitions. As of December 31, 2011, we had 114,201,737 shares of our Common Stock outstanding. Of these shares, approximately 102,447,116 shares were freely tradable. The remaining shares of our Common Stock were “restricted securities” as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Restricted securities may not be resold in a public distribution except in compliance with the registration requirements of the Securities Act or pursuant to an exemption therefrom, including the exemptions provided by Regulation S and Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act. We cannot predict whether substantial amounts of our Common Stock will be sold in the open market in anticipation of, or following, any divestiture by any of our existing stockholders, our directors or executive officers of their shares of Common Stock. As of December 31, 2011, there were 9,214,191 shares of our Common Stock reserved for issuance under our Amended and Restated 2006 Long Term Incentive Plan, of which 82,166 shares of Common Stock were issuable upon exercise of options outstanding as of December 31, 2011. The sale of shares issued upon the exercise of stock options could further dilute your investment in our Common Stock and adversely affect our stock price. Legislative or regulatory initiatives related to global warming/climate change concerns may negatively impact our business. Recently, there has been an increasing focus and continuous debate on global climate change including increased attention from regulatory agencies and legislative bodies. This increased focus may lead to new initiatives directed at regulating an as yet unspecified array of environmental matters. Legislative, regulatory or 20 Table of Contents other efforts in the United States to combat climate change could result in future increases in the cost of raw materials, taxes, transportation and utilities for our vendors and for us which would result in higher operating costs for the Company. Also, compliance of our theatres and accompanying real estate with new and revised environmental, zoning, land-use or building codes, laws, rules or regulations, could have a material and adverse effect on our business. However, we are unable to predict at this time, the potential effects, if any, that any future environmental initiatives may have on our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 21 Table of Contents 