D. Risk Factors — Risks Related to Liquidity, the 2008 Convertible Note Offering and Our Relationship with the Lehman Entities.” We may incur significant legal expenses in connection with, and allocate management time and attention to, the legal actions currently filed against us and it is possible that we will not be able to prevail against the plaintiffs. In December 2008, we learned that we were named as defendant in two putative securities class actions filed in the Unite States District Court for the Southern District of New York: Ellenburg v. JA Solar Holdings Co., Ltd., et al., Civil Action No. 08 CV 10475 (filed on December 3, 2008) and Zhang v. JA Solar Holdings Co., Ltd., et al., Civil Action No. 08 CV 11366 (filed on December 31, 2008). The complaints in the two actions, which are substantially identical, also name as defendants Mr. Huaijin Yang, our chief executive officer, and Mr. Daniel Lui, our former chief financial officer and current chief strategy officer, and allege that the defendants committed securities fraud in violation of Section 10(b) of the United States Securities and Exchange Act. On April 17, 2009, the court consolidated the two cases, appointed a lead plaintiff, and ordered the lead plaintiff to file a consolidated complaint. The lead plaintiff filed the consolidated complaint on June 1, 2009. We intend to file a motion to dismiss the consolidated complaint. Although we cannot predict the outcome of the litigation, we will defend ourselves vigorously in this litigation. 20 During this processes, we may incur significant legal expenses and allocate management time and attention to the legal actions. Despite our expense and efforts, however, no assurance can be provided that we will be able to prevail against the plaintiffs in the class actions. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. Substantially all of our business operations are conducted in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: · the amount of government involvement; · the level of development; · the growth rate; · the control of foreign exchange; and · the allocation of resources. While the Chinese economy has grown significantly in the past 20 years, the growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. The Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the PRC government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the PRC government could materially and adversely affect our business. The PRC government also exercises significant control over Chinese economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Efforts by the PRC government to slow the pace of growth of the Chinese economy could result in decreased capital expenditure by solar energy users, which in turn could reduce demand for our products. 21 Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth and the level of renewable energy investments and expenditures in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our businesses. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could have a material adverse effect on us. We conduct substantially all of our business inside China through our various wholly-owned subsidiaries and are therefore subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China, including laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. Our operating subsidiaries in China are subject to legal limitations in paying dividends to us. The payment of dividends by entities organized in China is subject to limitations. Regulations in the PRC currently permit payment of dividends by our PRC subsidiaries only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in China. Our subsidiaries are also required to set aside at least 10.0% of their after-tax profits based on PRC accounting standards each year to their general reserves until the accumulative amount of such reserves reach 50.0% of their respective registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. In addition, at the discretion of their respective Board of Directors, our PRC subsidiaries may allocate a portion of their after-tax profits to their respective staff welfare and bonus funds, which may not be distributed to equity owners except in the event of liquidation. Further, if our PRC subsidiaries incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Limitations on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends, or otherwise fund and conduct our business. Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi versus that of other foreign currencies may have a material adverse effect on our business and on your investment. The change in value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar, Euro and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in an appreciation of the Renminbi from approximately RMB 8.2765 per US$1.00 as of July 21, 2005 to RMB 6.8225 per US$1.00 as of December 31, 2008. While the international reaction to the Renminbi revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. As a significant portion of our costs and expenses is denominated in Renminbi, the revaluation in July 2005 and potential future revaluation has and could further increase our costs. 22 In addition, any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ADSs in foreign currency terms. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operations, an appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the Renminbi amount we receive from the conversion. In this particular regard, for the year ended December 31, 2008, we incurred foreign exchange loss totaling up to RMB 127.4 million (US$18.7 million). Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi may have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available for these purposes. In addition, an appreciation in the value of the Renminbi against foreign currencies could make our solar cells more expensive for our international customers as well as reduce the competitiveness of our PRC customers in the international market, thus potentially leading to a reduction in our sales and profitability. Furthermore, many of our competitors are foreign companies that could benefit from such a currency fluctuation, making it more difficult for us to compete with these companies. We cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations and may continue to incur net foreign currency losses in the future. Although we intend to reduce the effect of exchange rate exposure through hedging arrangements, we cannot assure you that such hedging activities will be effective in managing our foreign exchange risk exposure. Continued fluctuations in exchange rates, particularly among the U.S. dollar, Euro and the Renminbi could result in foreign exchange losses and affect our gross and net profit margins. PRC regulations on currency exchange and foreign investment may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively and may delay or prevent us from using the proceeds from our fundraising activities to make loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiaries. Substantially all of our revenues and a significant portion of our expenses are denominated in Renminbi. If our revenues denominated in Renminbi increase or expenses denominated in Renminbi decrease in the future, we may need to convert a portion of our revenues into other currencies to meet our foreign currency obligations, including, among others, payment of dividends declared, if any, in respect of our ordinary shares. Under China’s existing foreign exchange regulations, our PRC subsidiaries are able to pay dividends in foreign currencies, without prior approval from the State Administration of Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”), by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not take further measures in the future to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. Foreign exchange transactions by our PRC subsidiaries under the capital account continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of PRC governmental authorities, including the SAFE. To utilize the proceeds of our initial public offering and our follow-on offering as an offshore holding company of our PRC operating subsidiaries, we may make loans to our PRC subsidiaries, or we may make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries. Any loans to our PRC subsidiaries are subject to PRC regulations. For example, loans by us to our subsidiaries in China, which are foreign-invested enterprises (“FIEs”), to finance their activities cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with the SAFE. We may also finance our subsidiaries by means of capital contributions. These capital contributions must be approved by the PRC Ministry of Commerce or its local counterparts (“MOFCOM”). We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future capital contributions by us to our subsidiaries. If we fail to receive such approvals, our ability to use the proceeds we have received from our initial public offering and our follow-on offering and to capitalize our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. 23 Our business benefits from certain PRC government incentives. Expiration of, or changes to, these incentives could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In accordance with the PRC’s Foreign Enterprise Income Tax (“FEIT”) Law (“FEIT Law”) and the related implementation rules, FIEs established in the PRC are generally subject to FEIT at a state tax rate of 30% plus a local tax rate of 3% on PRC taxable income. Our operating subsidiary, JA Hebei, was established as a FIE in the PRC and is thus subject to PRC enterprise income tax of 33%. The PRC government has provided certain incentives to FIEs in order to encourage foreign investments, including tax exemptions, tax reductions and other measures. Under the FEIT Law and the related implementation rules, FIEs are entitled to be exempted from FEIT for a 2-year period starting from their first profit-making year followed by a 50% reduction of FEIT payable for the subsequent three years, provided that they fall into the category of production-oriented enterprises with an operational period of more than 10 years in China, subject to approval from and modification by local taxation authorities. Specifically, with respect to income generated by assets acquired by JA Hebei during the fiscal years 2005 and 2006, JA Hebei will receive a two-year enterprise income tax exemption for 2006 and 2007, as well as a 50% enterprise income tax reduction for 2008, 2009 and 2010. With respect to income generated by assets newly acquired by JA Hebei during 2007, JA Hebei will receive a two-year enterprise income tax exemption for 2007 and 2008, as well as a 50% enterprise income tax reduction for 2009, 2010 and 2011, subject to the approval of the provincial tax authority. JA Hebei has obtained the approval of the relevant county-level and provincial-level tax authority in this regard, which, however, may be subject to PRC central government’s further policies, decisions or rulings. In March 2007, the National People’s Congress of China enacted a new Corporate Income Tax (“CIT”) Law (or “CIT Law”), which became effective on January 1, 2008 and replaced the FEIT Law. The CIT Law imposes a unified income tax rate of 25% on all domestic enterprises and FIEs unless they qualify under certain limited exceptions. The CIT Law provides a transition period to FIEs, during which they are permitted to grandfather their existing preferential income tax treatment until such treatment expires in accordance with its current terms. In December 2007, the State Council promulgated the Notice on Implementation of Corporate Income Tax regarding Transition Period Preferential Treatment (the “Transition Period Implementation Rules”). According to such regulations, the CIT Law and the Transition Period Implementation Rules do not affect the preferential income tax treatment enjoyed by JA Hebei during the transition period. When our currently available tax benefits expire or otherwise become unavailable, the effective income tax rate of JA Hebei will increase significantly, and any increase of JA Hebei’s income tax rate in the future could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our operating subsidiary, JA Yangzhou, was established as a FIE in the PRC and was thus subject to a PRC enterprise income tax of 33% until 2007 and changed to the uniform rate of 25% in 2008. JA Yangzhou had cumulative losses as of December 31, 2008 and its tax holidays will be deemed to have commenced in 2008 and can be utilized until expiry pursuant to the new CIT Law. Our operating subsidiary, JA Zhabei, which is not a production-oriented enterprise, is subject to the uniform rate of 25% from 2008 onwards and not entitled to the tax holiday. Dividends we receive from our operating subsidiaries located in the PRC may be subject to PRC withholding tax. The newly enacted CIT Law provides that a maximum income tax rate of 20% may be applicable to dividends payable to non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” to the extent such dividends are derived from sources within the PRC, and the State Council has reduced such rate to 10% through the implementation regulations. We are a Cayman Islands holding company and substantially all of our income may be derived from dividends we receive from our operating subsidiaries located in the PRC. Thus, dividends paid to us by our subsidiaries in China may be subject to the 10% income tax if we are considered as a “non-resident enterprise” under the CIT Law. If we are required under the CIT Law to pay income tax for any dividends we receive from our subsidiaries, it will materially and adversely affect the amount of dividends, if any, we may pay to our shareholders and ADS holders. 24 We may be deemed a PRC resident enterprise under the CIT Law and be subject to the PRC taxation on our worldwide income. The CIT Law also provides that enterprises established outside of China whose “de facto management bodies” are located in China are considered “resident enterprises” and are generally subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate as to their worldwide income. Under the implementation regulations for the CIT Law issued by the PRC State Council, “de facto management body” is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and treasury, and acquisition and disposition of properties and other assets of an enterprise. If we are treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes, we will be subject to PRC tax on our worldwide income at the 25% uniform tax rate, which could have an impact on our effective tax rate and an adverse effect on our net income and results of operations, although dividends distributed from our PRC subsidiaries to us could be exempt from Chinese dividend withholding tax, since such income is exempted under the new CIT Law to a PRC resident recipient. Dividends payable by us to our foreign investors and gain on the sale of our ADSs or ordinary shares may become subject to taxes under PRC tax laws. Under the CIT Law and implementation regulations issued by the State Council, PRC income tax at the rate of 10% is applicable to dividends payable to investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” which do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC, or which have such establishment or place of business but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business, to the extent such dividends have their sources within the PRC. Similarly, any gain realized on the transfer of ADSs or shares by such investors is also subject to 10% PRC income tax if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC. If we are considered a PRC “resident enterprise,” it is unclear whether dividends we pay with respect to our ordinary shares or ADSs, or the gain you may realize from the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, would be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC and be subject to PRC tax. If we are required under the CIT Law to withhold PRC income tax on dividends payable to our non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, the value of your investment in our ordinary shares or ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. We face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of swine flu, avian flu, SARS or another epidemic or outbreak. China reported a number of cases of SARS in April 2004. In 2005 and 2006, there have been reports on the occurrences of avian flu in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases. Most recently, there have been reports on the occurrences of swine flu in humans in various parts of China. Any prolonged recurrence of avian flu, SARS, negative developments with swine flu or other adverse public health developments in China may have a material adverse effect on our business operations. These could include our ability to travel or ship our products outside China, as well as temporary closure of our manufacturing facilities. Such closures or travel or shipment restrictions would severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our results of operations. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat swine flu or any future outbreak of avian flu, SARS or any other epidemic. Recent PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident shareholders to personal liability and limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us, or otherwise adversely affect us. 25 In October 2005, the PRC SAFE issued a circular concerning foreign exchange regulations on investments by PRC residents in China through special purpose companies incorporated overseas (or “SPV”), or Circular No. 75, and the implementation procedures of such regulations have been further clarified by circular No. 106 issued by the Department of General Affairs of SAFE on May 29, 2007. Circular No. 75 states that, if PRC residents use assets or equity interests in their domestic entities as capital contribution to establish offshore companies or inject assets or equity interests of their PRC entities into offshore companies to raise capital overseas, such PRC residents must register with local SAFE branches with respect to their overseas investments in offshore companies and must also file amendments to their registrations if their offshore companies experience material events, such as changes in share capital, share transfer, mergers and acquisitions, spin-off transactions or use of assets in China to guarantee offshore obligations. Our shareholders who are PRC residents as determined by the relevant branch of SAFE have registered with the relevant branch of SAFE with respect to their investments in us and our acquisition of their interests in JA Hebei as currently required. However, we cannot provide any assurances that their existing registrations have fully complied with, and they will make necessary amendments to their registration to fully comply with, all applicable registrations or approvals required by these SAFE circulars. The failure or inability of our PRC resident shareholders to comply with the registration procedures set forth therein may subject these PRC resident shareholders to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our cross-border investment activities, or limit our PRC subsidiary’ ability to distribute dividends to our company. As it is uncertain how SAFE will interpret or implement these circulars, we cannot predict how this circular and other SAFE circulars will affect our business operations or future strategies. For example, we may be subject to more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign currency-denominated borrowings, which may adversely affect our business and prospects. PRC rules on mergers and acquisitions may subject us to sanctions, fines and other penalties and affect our future business growth through acquisition of complementary business. On August 8, 2006, six PRC government and regulatory authorities, including the MOFCOM and the China Securities Regulatory Commission (or the “CSRC”), promulgated a rule entitled Provisions regarding Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors (or the “New M&A Rule”), which became effective on September 8, 2006. The New M&A Rule, among other things, requires that an offshore SPV formed for the listing purpose through acquisition of PRC domestic entity and controlled by PRC residents should obtain approval from the CSRC prior to publicly listing its securities on an overseas stock market. Based on consultation with the International Department of the CSRC regarding its interpretation of the New M&A Rule, our PRC counsel, Tian Yuan Law Firm, advised us that the CSRC approval was not required for our initial public offering and the listing of our ADSs on The Nasdaq Global Market and this offering. However, we cannot assure you that the relevant PRC governmental agencies, including MOFCOM and other applicable departments of the CSRC, would reach the same conclusion as our PRC counsel. If the CSRC or other PRC regulatory body subsequently determines that the CSRC’s approval was required for our initial and follow-on offerings and the listing of our ADSs on the Nasdaq Global Market, we may face sanctions by the CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies. In such event, these regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, delay or restrict the repatriation of the proceeds from our public offering into the PRC, or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our ADSs. The New M&A Rule also established additional procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that MOFCOM be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise. In the future, we may grow our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses, although we do not have any plans to do so at this time. Complying with the requirements of the New M&A Rule to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from MOFCOM, may delay or inhibit the completion of such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. 26 All employee participants in our existing stock option plans who are PRC citizens may be required to register with SAFE. We may also face regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our ability to adopt additional option plans for our directors and employees under PRC law. To implement the Administrative Rule on Foreign Exchange Matters of Individuals and its related Implementing Rule, on April 6, 2007, the department of general administration affairs of SAFE issued the Operating Procedures for Administration of Domestic Individuals Participating in the Employee Stock Option Plan or Stock Option Plan of An Overseas Listed Company, or Circular No. 78. For any employee stock incentive plans which are so covered and are adopted by an overseas listed company, Circular No. 78 requires the employee participants who are PRC citizens to register their participation in the plan with SAFE or its local branch and report to such agency within ten days of the beginning of each quarter after their initial registration. Registration should be made by July 5, 2007 if the employee participated in such plan prior to April 6, 2007. In addition, Circular No. 78 also requires the employee participants who are PRC citizens to follow a series of requirements on making necessary applications for foreign exchange purchase quota, opening special bank account and filings with SAFE or its local branch before they exercise their stock option. Circular No. 78 has not yet been made publicly available or formally promulgated by SAFE, but SAFE has begun enforcing its provisions. Nonetheless, it is not predictable whether it will continue to enforce this circular or adopt additional or different requirements with respect to equity compensation plans or incentive plans. If it is determined that our employee stock option plan is subject to Circular 78, failure to comply with such provisions may subject us and the participants of our employee stock option plan who are PRC citizens to obstacles in converting benefits received under such plan into Renminbi, as well as fines and legal sanctions, and prevent us from further granting options under our employee stock incentive plan to our employees, which could adversely affect our business operations. To help mitigate this risk, we have registered our 2006 stock incentive plan with Hebei Provincial Administration of Foreign Exchange in accordance with Circular No. 78 and obtained its approval in February 2008. Risks Related to Liquidity, the 2008 Convertible Note Offering and Our Relationship with the Lehman Entities We have financed our operations primarily through equity contributions by our shareholders, our initial and follow-on public offerings, a convertible note offering, short-term bank borrowings and cash flow from operations. However, we may require additional cash in the future and may not be able to secure such cash on favorable terms, if at all. Working capital and access to financing for purchase of silicon raw materials are critical to growing and sustaining our business. We have significant working capital commitments because suppliers of silicon wafers and polysilicon require us to make prepayments in advance of shipments. Although we believe that current cash and cash equivalents and anticipated cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs, including our cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures, for at least the next twelve months, we may, however, require additional cash to repay existing debt obligations or to re-finance our existing debts or due to changing business conditions or other future developments. If our existing cash is insufficient to meet our requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity securities, debt securities or borrow from lending institutions. The current global liquidity and credit crisis since the second half of 2008 has been having a significant negative impact on the financing abilities of businesses worldwide, including that of our company. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet such obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek additional equity or debt financing. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in the amounts we need or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. The sale of additional equity securities, including convertible debt securities, would dilute our shareholders. The incurrence of debt would result in increased interest rate risk, divert cash for working capital and capital expenditures to service debt obligations and could result in operating and financial covenants that restrict our operations and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders, if any. 27 A shortage of such funds could in turn impose limitations on our ability to plan for, or react effectively to, changing market conditions or to expand through organic and acquisitive growth, thereby reducing our competitiveness. The significant amount and the structure of our recent offering of senior convertible notes could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We incurred a significant amount of debt and substantial debt service requirements as a result of the May 2008 offering (“2008 Offering”) of the 4.5% senior convertible notes issue by us and maturing on May 15, 2013 (the “Senior Notes”). As of December 31, 2008, we had $321.474 million of indebtedness outstanding. Our substantial indebtedness could have significant consequences on our future operations, including: • requiring us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, which would reduce our cash flow available for working capital, capital expenditures, development projects and other general corporate purposes; • limiting our flexibility in planning for or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industry in which we operate and the general economy; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt or are less leveraged. Any of the above-listed factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to meet our payment and other obligations depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow in the future. This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors as well as other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us in amounts sufficient and on terms reasonable to us to support our liquidity needs. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, including our Senior Notes, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. Our functional currency is different from the denomination of the Senior Notes and the company’s early redemption option is contingent upon its ADS price. Therefore, in accordance with SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities", the company accounted for the conversion feature, early redemption option and conversion rate adjustment feature (together, “Embedded Derivatives”) as a freestanding instrument separately in the balance sheet. The Senior Notes were recorded with a discount equal to the value of the Embedded Derivatives at the transaction date and will be accreted to the redemption value of the Senior Notes over the life of the Senior Notes. The change in fair value of the Embedded Derivatives and capped call options are recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Operations which may potentially increase the level of our earnings volatility. We may incur additional indebtedness. If we do so, our increased debt service requirements may adversely affect our ability to meet our payment obligations on our currently outstanding Senior Notes and otherwise successfully grow and operate our business. Legal action against the Lehman Entities in connection with the Lehman Entities’ insolvency proceedings could be expensive, time-consuming and ultimately unsuccessful. We currently have the following business relationships with the Lehman Entities around the world: 1.) an investment of US$ 100 million in note issued by Lehman Brothers Treasury Co. BV (“Lehman BV”) (the “Lehman Note”(1)); and 28 2.) an ADS lending agreement dated as of May 13, 2008 with Lehman Brothers International (Europe) (“LBIE”). 3.) a capped call confirmation dated May 13, 2008 with Lehman Brothers OTC Derivatives Inc. (“Lehman OTC”) (the “Capped Call”); All of the Lehman Entities are now undergoing insolvency proceedings in various countries. Therefore, even though the Lehman Note matured in October 2008, the insolvency proceedings prevented the payment of the Lehman Note and our attempts to collect the amounts due on the Lehman Note. In addition, we are in the process of seeking the return of the ADSs borrowed by LBIE under the ADS lending agreements. Furthermore, in light of the insolvency proceedings, the Lehman OTC’s obligations under the Capped Call may not be enforced and, as a result, are currently under dispute. During this process, we may incur significant legal expenses and allocate management time and attention to the legal action. Despite our expense and efforts, however, no assurance can be provided that we will be able to recover any of the shares or monies-owed or be awarded any damages from the Lehman Entities. (1) Lehman Note. We have an approximately US$100 million USD 3-Month Lehman Brothers Commodity Alpha Trading Strategies I Excess Return (“LCMNER”) Index-Linked note, issued by Lehman BV and guaranteed by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (or “LBHI”). The Lehman Note is linked to an index of LCMNER. The maturity date of the Lehnman Note was October 9, 2008, with 100% principal protection guaranteed by LBHI. The Lehman Note and the guarantee rank equally with all unsecured obligations of the issuer and guarantor. On September 19, 2008, the Amsterdam District Court granted Lehman BV a provisional suspension of payments and subsequently declared Lehman BV bankrupt on October 8, 2008. The Lehman Note was not repaid by Lehman BV and we have made a full impairment amounting to RMB 686,320,000 against the Lehman Note. We have filed a claim with the administrators of Lehman BV for recovery of the US$100 million and are working with lawyers to monitor the status of the bankruptcy. Any portion of its investment that we are able to recover in the future will be recorded as other income. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares and ADSs The market price for our ADSs has been volatile. The market price for our ADSs has been and may continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. From the initial listing of our ADSs on the Nasdaq Global Market on February 7, 2007 to February 7, 2008, the closing prices of our ADSs have ranged from US$16.30 to US$75.43 per ADS. Then from the day after the date of our 3-for-1 ADS split (February 7, 2008) to the date of this annual report, the closing prices of our ADSs have ranged from US$1.8 to US$25.75 per ADS. The last reported trading price of our ADSs on June 24, 2009 was US$4.60 per ADS. The price of our ADSs may continue to fluctuate in response to factors including the following: · announcements of technological or competitive developments; · regulatory developments in our target markets affecting us, our customers, our potential customers or our competitors; · announcements regarding patent litigation or the issuance of patents to us or our competitors; · announcements of studies and reports relating to the conversion efficiencies of our products or those of our competitors; · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; · changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; · changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other photovoltaic technology companies; · addition or departure of our executive officers and key research personnel; 29 · fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and RMB; · release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares or ADSs; · sales or perceived sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs; and · the outcome of the various legal actions we are taking against the Lehman Entities are uncertain. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. Our most current memorandum and articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could have a material adverse effect on the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Our most current memorandum and articles of association limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our Board of Directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix their designations, powers, preferences, privileges, and relative participating, optional or special rights and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares, in the form of ADS or otherwise. Preferred shares could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. If our Board of Directors decides to issue preferred shares, the price of our ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. Holders of ADSs have fewer rights than shareholders and must act through the depositary to exercise those rights. Holders of ADSs do not have the same rights of our shareholders and may only exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under our most current memorandum and articles of association, the minimum notice period required to convene a general meeting will be ten days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw your ordinary shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your ADSs. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ADSs are not voted as you requested. In addition, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to call a shareholder meeting. You may be subject to limitations on transfers of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. 30 ADS holders’ right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings and you may not receive cash dividends if it is impractical to make them available to you. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary bank will not make rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act, or exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. In addition, the depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute such property and you will not receive such distribution. We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than that under U.S. law, you may have less protection for your shareholder rights than you would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our most current memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as that from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by our management, our Board of Directors or our controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a U.S. public company. You may have difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us. 31 We are a Cayman Islands company and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. Substantially all of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands or the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. In addition, it is uncertain whether such Cayman Islands or PRC courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands or the PRC against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. ITEM 