risk factors discussed in "Risk Factors" and other risks identified in this Annual Report could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements. There may be other risks and uncertainties that we are unable to predict at this time or that we currently do not expect to have a material adverse effect on our business. ii Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview TE Connectivity Ltd. ("TE Connectivity," or the "Company," which may be referred to as "we," "us," or "our") is a global company that designs and manufactures approximately 500,000 products that connect and protect the flow of power and data inside millions of products used by consumers and industries. We partner with customers in a broad array of industries from consumer electronics, energy, and healthcare to automotive, aerospace, and communication networks. In March 2011, our shareholders approved an amendment to our articles of association to change our name from "Tyco Electronics Ltd." to "TE Connectivity Ltd." The name change was effective March 10, 2011. Our ticker symbol "TEL" on the New York Stock Exchange remained unchanged. Tyco Electronics Ltd. was incorporated in Bermuda in fiscal 2000 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of then Bermuda-based Tyco International Ltd. ("Tyco International"). Effective June 29, 2007, Tyco International distributed all of our shares to its common shareholders (referred to in this report as the "separation"). We became an independent, publicly traded company owning the former electronics businesses of Tyco International. Our business was formed principally through a series of acquisitions, from fiscal 1999 through fiscal 2002, of established electronics companies and divisions, including the acquisition of AMP Incorporated and Raychem Corporation in fiscal 1999, and the Electromechanical Components Division of Siemens and OEM Division of Thomas & Betts in fiscal 2000. These companies each had more than 50 years of history in engineering and innovation excellence. We operated as a segment of Tyco International prior to our separation. Effective June 25, 2009, we discontinued our existence as a Bermuda company as provided in Section 132G of the Companies Act of 1981 of Bermuda, as amended (the "Bermuda Companies Act"), and, in accordance with article 161 of the Swiss Federal Code on International Private Law, continued our existence as a Swiss corporation under articles 620 et seq. of the Swiss Code of Obligations. The rights of holders of our shares are governed by Swiss law, our Swiss articles of association, and our Swiss organizational regulations. We operate through three reporting segments: Transportation Solutions, Communications and Industrial Solutions, and Network Solutions. See Notes 1 and 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our segments. 1 Table of Contents Our reporting segments manufacture and distribute our products and solutions to a number of end markets. The table below provides a summary of our reporting segments, the fiscal 2011 net sales contribution of each segment, and the key products and industry end markets that we serve: Segment Transportation Solutions Communications and Industrial Solutions Network Solutions % of Fiscal 2011 Net Sales 39% 36% 25% Key Products • Connector systems • Connector systems • Connector systems • Relays • Relays • Heat shrink tubing • Circuit protection devices • Touch screens • Wire and cable • Wire and cable • Circuit protection devices • Racks and panels • Heat shrink tubing • Antennas • Fiber optics • Sensors • Heat shrink tubing • Wireless • Application tooling • Undersea telecommunication systems Key Markets • Automotive • Industrial • Telecom Networks • Aerospace, Defense, and • Data Communications • Energy Marine • Appliance • Enterprise Networks • Consumer Devices • Subsea • Computer • Communications • Touch Solutions See Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for certain segment and geographic financial information relating to our business. Our Competitive Strengths We believe that we have the following competitive strengths: •Portfolio of market-leading connectivity businesses. We are leaders in many of the markets we serve, and the opportunity for growth in those markets is significant. We believe our three segments serve a combined approximately $90 billion market that is expected to grow at an estimated annual growth rate of 6% over the next five years. •Global leader in passive components. With net sales of $14.3 billion in fiscal 2011, we are significantly larger than many of our competitors. In the fragmented connector industry, which we estimated to be approximately $48 billion in fiscal 2011, our net sales were approximately $8.5 billion. We have established a global leadership position in the connector industry with leading market positions in the following markets: •Automotive—#1 •Industrial—#1 •Telecom/data communications—#2 •Computers and peripherals—#3 Our scale provides us the opportunity to accelerate our sales growth by making larger investments in existing and new technologies in our core markets and to expand our presence in emerging markets. Our leadership position also provides us the opportunity to lower our purchasing costs by developing lower cost sources of supply and to maintain a flexible manufacturing footprint worldwide that is close to our customers' locations. •Strong customer relationships. As an industry leader, we have established close working relationships with many of our customers. These relationships allow us to better anticipate and respond to customer needs when designing new products and new technical solutions. By working with our customers in developing new products and technologies, we believe we are able 2 Table of Contents to identify and act on trends and leverage knowledge about next-generation technology across our products. •Process and product technology leadership. We employ approximately 7,500 engineers dedicated to product research, development, and engineering. Our investment of $733 million in product and process engineering and development together with our capital spending of $581 million in fiscal 2011 enable us to consistently provide innovative, high-quality products with efficient manufacturing methods. •Diverse product mix and customer base. We manufacture and sell a broad portfolio of products to customers in various industries. Our customers include many of the leaders in their respective industries, and our relationships with them typically date back many years. We believe that this diversified customer base provides us an opportunity to leverage our skills and experience across markets and reduces our exposure to particular end markets, thereby reducing the variability of our financial performance. Additionally, we believe that the diversity of our customer base reduces the level of cyclicality in our results and distinguishes us from our competitors. •Global presence. We have an established manufacturing presence in over 20 countries and our sales are global. Our global coverage positions us near our customers' locations and allows us to assist them in consolidating their supply base and lowering their production costs. We believe our balanced sales distribution lowers our exposure to any particular geography and improves our financial profile. •Strong management team and employee base. We believe our management team has the experience necessary to effectively execute our strategy and advance our product and technology leadership. Our Chief Executive Officer and segment leaders average more than 25 years of experience, of which most is in the electronics industry. They are supported by an experienced and talented management team that is dedicated to maintaining and expanding our position as a global leader in the industry. We have approximately 95,000 employees who are based throughout the world. We continue to emphasize employee development and training, and we embrace diversity. Our strong employee base, along with their commitment to uncompromising values, provides the foundation of our company's success. Our Strategy We want to be a premier partner to our customers; we want our employees to thrive, be highly engaged, and view our company as a great place to work; and we want to generate superior returns for our shareholders. These three basic tenets are the focus of our strategy and drive all that we do. Our strategy is built on core values of integrity, accountability, teamwork, and innovation. We expect our employees to do the right thing, take responsibility, work together, and innovate. Our goal is to be the world leader in providing custom-engineered electronic components and solutions for an increasingly connected world. We believe that in achieving this, we will increase net sales and profitability across our segments in the markets that we serve. We intend to continue our growth by focusing on the following priorities: •Deliver extraordinary customer service. We are broadening the concept of service to embrace every aspect of how we reach and serve our customers. We are increasing our focus on our strategic accounts through direct sales, better leveraging the distribution channel, and revolutionizing our web presence and eBusiness programs. These initiatives, along with our company-wide improvement program designed to improve productivity, reduce costs, and ultimately deliver greater satisfaction to our customers and greater value to shareholders, will 3 Table of Contents enable us to broaden our customer reach and increase customer satisfaction while enabling us to serve customers better and more cost effectively. •Strengthen our innovation leadership. Technology leadership is critical to our business. We seek to continue to strengthen our process and product technology leadership and to increase the percentage of our annual net sales from new products. In fiscal 2011, we derived approximately 25% of our net sales from new products launched within the previous three years. We intend to continue to focus our research, development, and engineering investment on next generation technologies and highly engineered products and platforms, and leverage innovation across our segments. •Extend our leadership in emerging markets. We seek to improve our market leadership position in emerging geographic regions, including China, Eastern Europe, Brazil, and India, which we expect will experience higher growth rates than those of more developed regions in the world. In fiscal 2011, we generated $2.1 billion of net sales in China, $1.1 billion of net sales in Eastern Europe, $0.4 billion of net sales in Brazil, and $0.2 billion of net sales in India. We believe that expansion in these regions will enable us to grow faster than the overall global market. •Lead in smart connectivity. Smart connectivity complements and expands on innovation leadership. It adds more functionality and intelligence wherever connectivity occurs. Our focus on smart connectivity enables us to provide more value to our customers by offering products that do more and solve more. •Supplement organic growth with strategic partnerships and acquisitions. We will evaluate and selectively pursue strategic partnerships and acquisitions that strengthen our market position, enhance our existing product offering, enable us to enter attractive markets, expand our technological capabilities, and provide synergy opportunities. Our Products Our net sales by reporting segment as a percentage of our total net sales was as follows: Fiscal 2011 2010 2009 Transportation Solutions 39 % 40 % 34 % Communications and Industrial Solutions 36 40 38 Network Solutions 25 20 28 Total 100 % 100 % 100 % Transportation Solutions The Transportation Solutions segment is a leader in electronic components, including connectors, relays, circuit protection devices, wire and cable, heat shrink tubing, and sensors, as well as application tooling and custom-engineered solutions for the automotive and aerospace, defense, and marine markets. The following are the primary product families sold by the segment: •Connector Systems and Components. We offer an extensive range of electrical and electronic interconnection products. These connectors include a wide variety of pin and socket, terminal, USB, coaxial, input/output, fiber optic, and power connectors, as well as sophisticated interconnection products used in complex aerospace, defense, and marine equipment. •Relays. Our relay products can be used in a wide range of applications in the automotive industry, including electric sunroofs, anti-lock braking systems, and fuel injection coils. Also, our 4 Table of Contents relay products can be used in a wide range of high-performance applications for the aerospace industry. •Circuit Protection Devices. We offer a diverse range of circuit protection devices, which limit the flow of current during fault conditions and automatically reset after the fault is cleared and power to the circuit is restored. We also offer surface-mount chip fuses, gas discharge tubes for overvoltage protection, electrostatic discharge protection devices, and hybrid protection devices. •Wire and Cable. We provide highly engineered cable and wire products to the aerospace, defense, and marine markets. We offer a broad range of cable, including NASA-specification cable and other cables suitable for use in rugged applications within the aerospace, defense, and marine (oil and gas exploration) industries. •Heat Shrink Tubing. We offer hundreds of reliable, cost-effective products to seal, connect, insulate, protect, hold, and bundle high-performance electrical harnesses. We also provide customized harnessing design, prototype, and build services. •Sensors. We offer a customized engineered portfolio of non-contact position and speed sensor technologies mainly for the automotive industry that include high measurement standards, robust housing technologies, and temperature stable designs for a variety of powertrain, safety, and chassis applications. •Application Tooling. We offer a broad portfolio of hand tools, semi-automatic bench machines, and fully-automatic machine systems for processing terminal products. In addition to the above product families, which represent over 90% of the Transportation Solutions segment's net sales, we also offer clocksprings, identification products, fiber optics, resistors and inductors, and switches. Communications and Industrial Solutions The Communications and Industrial Solutions segment is one of the world's largest suppliers of electronic components, including connectors, relays, touch screens, circuit protection devices, antennas, and heat shrink tubing. Our products are used primarily in the industrial machinery, data communications, household appliance, consumer devices, computer, and touch solutions markets. The following are the primary product families sold by the segment: •Connector Systems and Components. We offer connector products including a wide variety of pin and socket, terminal, USB, coaxial, input/output, fiber optic, and power connectors, as well as sophisticated interconnection products used in complex telecommunications, computer, and medical equipment. •Relays. Our relay products can be used in a wide range of applications in the telecommunications, industrial, and appliance markets, including signal and power relay technologies for the telecommunications industry. •Touch Screens. We develop, manufacture, and market a complete line of touch solutions for point-of-sale terminals, self service, process control, medical, and consumer products. We offer component touch systems for original equipment manufacturers and a broad line of standard and custom LCD touch monitors and computers. •Circuit Protection Devices. We offer a range of circuit protection devices, which limit the flow of current during fault conditions and automatically reset after the fault is cleared and power to the circuit is restored. We also offer surface-mount chip fuses, gas discharge tubes for overvoltage protection, electrostatic discharge protection devices, and hybrid protection devices. 5 Table of Contents •Antennas. We offer application specific and standard antenna products in a variety of structures to enable our customers to complete the transmission of wireless voice and data over a full range of protocols. •Heat Shrink Tubing. We offer hundreds of reliable, cost-effective products to seal, connect, insulate, protect, hold, and bundle high-performance electrical harnesses. We also provide customized harnessing design, prototype, and build services. In addition to the above product families, which represent over 90% of the total Communications and Industrial Solutions segment's net sales, the segment also sells identification products, wire and cable, memory card products, switches, and battery assemblies. Network Solutions The Network Solutions segment is one of the world's largest suppliers of infrastructure components and systems for the telecommunications and energy markets. Our products include connectors, heat shrink tubing, wire and cable, racks and panels, fiber optics, and wireless products. We are also a leader in developing, manufacturing, installing, and maintaining some of the world's most advanced subsea fiber optic communications systems. The following are the primary product families sold by the segment: •Connector Systems and Components. We offer an extensive range of low, medium, and high-voltage connectors and splices, cable assemblies, sealing systems, terminals, fittings, lugs and clamps, transmission line fittings, splice closures, grounding hardware, and wall and floor outlets for voice and data connection to local area networks. •Heat Shrink Tubing. We offer heat shrink tubing, heat shrinkable splice closures, wrap-around sleeves, and molded parts designed to better protect both high- and low-voltage circuits against harsh aerial, buried, and above-ground environments. •Wire and Cable. We provide wire and cable for indoor and outdoor use in office, factory floor, school, and residential voice, data, and video networks, including copper and fiber optic distribution cables, shielded and unshielded twisted-pair cables, armored cable, and patch cords. •Racks and Panels. We provide racks and panels that are used to integrate, organize, and manage fiber and copper cables and splices, thereby simplifying installation, maintenance, and upgrades for both exchange/head end and customer premise environments. •Fiber Optics. We provide fiber optic connectors, splices, fiber optic splice closures, fiber management systems, high density cable assemblies, couplers and splitters, and complete cabling systems. These products find use in both local-area and wide-area networks, and "Last-Mile" Fiber-to-the-Home installations. •Wireless. We offer solutions for radio frequency distribution and distributed antenna systems. These products provide wireless coverage and capacity and operate as an extension of the wireless network, expanding the reach of both in-building and outdoor signals. •Undersea Telecommunication Systems. We design, build, maintain, and test undersea fiber optic networks for the telecommunication and oil and gas markets. In addition to the above product families, which represent over 90% of the total Network Solutions segment's net sales, the segment also sells printed circuit board devices, relays, network interface devices, and application tooling. 6 Table of Contents Markets We sell our products to manufacturers and distributors in a number of major markets. The approximate percentage of our total net sales by market in fiscal 2011 was as follows: Markets Percentage Automotive 34 % Telecommunications 14 Industrial 8 Telecom Networks 8 Energy 7 Computer 7 Enterprise Networks 6 Aerospace, Defense, and Marine 5 Appliance 4 Medical 3 Other 4 Total 100 % Automotive. The automotive industry uses our products in motor management systems for combustion and electric vehicles, body electronic applications, safety systems, chassis systems, security systems, driver information, passenger entertainment, and comfort and convenience applications. Electronic components regulate critical vehicle functions, from fuel intake to braking, as well as information, entertainment, and climate control systems. Telecommunications. Our products are used in telecommunications products, such as data networking equipment, switches, routers, wire line infrastructure equipment, wireless infrastructure equipment, wireless base stations, mobile phones, and undersea fiber optic telecommunication systems. Industrial. Our products are used in factory automation and process control systems, photovoltaic systems, industrial motors and generators, and general industrial machinery and equipment. Telecom Networks. Our products are used by communication service providers to facilitate the high-speed delivery of services from central offices to customer premises. This industry services the needs of emerging countries that are building out their communications infrastructure as well as countries upgrading networks to support high-speed internet connectivity and delivery of high-definition television. Energy. The energy industry uses our products in power generation equipment and power transmission equipment. The industry has been investing heavily to improve, upgrade, and restore existing equipment and systems. In addition, this industry addresses the needs of emerging countries that are building out and upgrading their energy infrastructure. Computer. Our products are used in computer products, such as servers and storage equipment, workstations, notebook computers, tablets, desktop computers, and business and retail equipment. Enterprise Networks. We provide structured cabling systems and cable management products for commercial buildings and office campuses, products that enable high-bandwidth voice and data communications throughout facilities ranging from data centers to office buildings to hotel and resort complexes. 7 Table of Contents Aerospace, Defense, and Marine. Our products are used in military and commercial aircraft, missile systems, military ground systems, satellites, space programs, radar systems, and offshore oil and gas applications. Appliance. Our products are used in many household appliances, including refrigerators, washers, dryers, dishwashers, and microwaves. Medical. Our products are used in a wide variety of medical devices, ranging from diagnostic and monitoring equipment, surgical devices, ultrasound systems, and energy-based catheters. Other. Our products are used in numerous products, including instrumentation and measurement equipment, commercial and building equipment, building network and cabling systems, and railway equipment. This category also includes products sold through third-party distributors. Customers Our customers include automobile, telecommunication, computer, industrial, aerospace, and consumer products manufacturers that operate both globally and locally. Our customers also include contract manufacturers and third-party distributors. We serve over 200,000 customer locations in over 150 countries, and we maintain a strong local presence in each of the geographic regions in which we operate. Our net sales by geographic region as a percentage of our total net sales were as follows: Fiscal 2011 2010 2009 Europe/Middle East/Africa 36 % 35 % 34 % Asia-Pacific 32 34 29 Americas(1) 32 31 37 Total 100 % 100 % 100 % (1)The Americas includes our Subsea Communications business. See Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding geographic regions. We collaborate closely with our customers so that their product needs are met. There is no single customer that accounted for more than 10% of our net sales in fiscal 2011, 2010, or 2009. Our approach to our customers is driven by our dedication to further developing our product families and ensuring that we are globally positioned to best provide our customers with sales and engineering support. We believe that as electronic component technologies continue to proliferate, our broad product portfolio and engineering capability give us a potential competitive advantage when addressing the needs of our global customers. Raw Materials We use a wide variety of raw materials in the manufacture of our products. The principal raw materials that we use include plastic resins for molding, precious metals such as gold and silver for plating, and other metals such as copper, aluminum, brass, and steel for manufacturing cable, contacts, and other parts that are used for cable and component bodies and inserts. Many of these raw materials are produced in a limited number of countries around the world or are only available from a limited number of suppliers. The prices of these materials are driven by global supply and demand dynamics. 8 Table of Contents The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains provisions to improve the transparency and accountability concerning the supply of minerals coming from the conflict zones of the Democratic Republic of Congo ("DRC"). As a result, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") is required to establish new annual disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies who use "conflict" minerals mined from the DRC and adjoining countries in their products. When these new requirements are implemented, they could affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of certain of our products. As a result, there may only be a limited pool of suppliers who provide conflict free metals. Research and Development We are engaged in both internal and external research and development in an effort to introduce new products, to enhance the effectiveness, ease of use, safety, and reliability of our existing products, and to expand the applications for which the uses of our products are appropriate. We continually evaluate developing technologies in areas where we may have technological or marketing expertise for possible investment or acquisition. Our research and development expense for fiscal 2011, 2010, and 2009 was as follows: Fiscal 2011 2010 2009 (in millions) Transportation Solutions $ 217 $ 187 $ 172 Communications and Industrial Solutions 252 203 181 Network Solutions 155 92 86 Total $ 624 $ 482 $ 439 Our research, development, and engineering efforts are supported by approximately 7,500 engineers. These engineers work closely with our customers to develop application specific, highly engineered products and systems to satisfy the customers' needs. Our new products, including product extensions, introduced during the previous three years comprised approximately 25% of our net sales for fiscal 2011. Sales, Marketing, and Distribution We sell our products into more than 150 countries, and we sell primarily through direct selling efforts. We also sell some of our products indirectly via third-party distributors. In fiscal 2011, our direct sales represented 78% of net sales, with the remainder of net sales provided by sales to third-party distributors and independent manufacturer representatives. We maintain distribution centers around the world. Products are generally delivered to these distribution centers by our manufacturing facilities and then subsequently delivered to the customer. In some instances, product is delivered directly from our manufacturing facility to the customer. We contract with a wide range of transport providers to deliver our products via road, rail, sea, and air. Seasonality and Backlog Customer orders typically fluctuate from quarter to quarter based upon business conditions and because unfilled orders may be canceled prior to shipment of goods. We experience a slight seasonal pattern to our business. The third fiscal quarter is typically the strongest quarter of our fiscal year, while the first fiscal quarter is negatively affected by winter holidays and the fourth fiscal quarter is negatively affected by European holidays. The second fiscal quarter may also be affected by adverse winter weather conditions in certain of our end markets. 9 Table of Contents Backlog by reportable segment at fiscal year end 2011 and 2010 was as follows: Fiscal 2011 2010 (in millions) Transportation Solutions $ 1,041 $ 873 Communications and Industrial Solutions 1,140 1,304 Network Solutions 780 789 Total $ 2,961 $ 2,966 We expect that the majority of our backlog at September 30, 2011 will be filled during fiscal 2012. Competition The industries in which we operate are highly competitive, and we compete with thousands of companies that range from large multinational corporations to local manufacturers. Competition is generally on the basis of breadth of product offering, product innovation, price, quality, delivery, and service. Our markets have generally been growing but with downward pressure on prices. •Transportation Solutions. This segment competes against numerous companies, including Delphi Automotive, Molex, Amphenol, FCI, Yazaki, Sumitomo, Carlisle Interconnect Technologies, Esterline, Glenair, and HellermannTyton. •Communications and Industrial Solutions. This segment competes against numerous companies, including Molex, JST Connectors, Japan Aviation Electronics, Amphenol, FCI, 3M, and Foxconn Technology Group. •Network Solutions. This segment's major competitors include Corning, CommScope, 3M, Huawei Technologies, Thomas & Betts, and Hubbell. Also, the Subsea Communications business primarily competes against Alcatel-Lucent. Intellectual Property Patents and other proprietary rights are important to our business. We also rely upon trade secrets, manufacturing know-how, continuing technological innovations, and licensing opportunities to maintain and improve our competitive position. We review third-party proprietary rights, including patents and patent applications, as available, in an effort to develop an effective intellectual property strategy, avoid infringement of third-party proprietary rights, identify licensing opportunities, and monitor the intellectual property claims of others. We own a large portfolio of patents that principally relate to electrical, optical, and electronic products. We also own a portfolio of trademarks and are a licensee of various patents and trademarks. Patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. Trademark rights may potentially extend for longer periods of time and are dependent upon national laws and use of the trademarks. While we consider our patents and trademarks to be valued assets, we do not believe that our competitive position or our operations are dependent upon or would be materially impacted by any single patent or group of related patents. Employees As of September 30, 2011, we employed approximately 95,000 people worldwide, of whom 29,000 were in the Americas region, 26,000 were in the Europe/Middle East/Africa region, and 40,000 were in 10 Table of Contents the Asia-Pacific region. Of our total employees, approximately 58,000 were employed in manufacturing. Approximately 65% of our employees were based in lower-cost countries, primarily China. We believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory. Government Regulation and Supervision The import and export of products are subject to regulation by the United States and other countries. A small portion of our products, including defense-related products, may require governmental import and export licenses, whose issuance may be influenced by geopolitical and other events. We have a trade compliance organization and other systems in place to apply for licenses and otherwise comply with such regulations. Any failure to maintain compliance with domestic and foreign trade regulation could limit our ability to import and export raw materials and finished goods into or from the relevant jurisdiction. Environmental Our operations are subject to numerous health, safety, and environmental laws and regulations, including laws and regulations that have been enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. We are committed to complying with these laws and to the protection of our employees and the environment. We maintain a global environmental, health, and safety program that includes appropriate policies and standards, staff dedicated to environmental, health, and safety issues, periodic compliance auditing, training, and other measures. We have a program for compliance with the European Union ("EU") Restriction of Hazardous Substances and Waste Electrical and Electronics Equipment Directives, the China Restriction of Hazardous Substances law, and similar laws. Compliance with these laws has in the past and may in the future increase our costs of doing business in a variety of ways. For example, our costs may increase indirectly through increased energy and product costs as producers of energy, cement, iron, steel, pulp, paper, petroleum, and other major emitters of greenhouse gases are subjected to increased or new regulation or legislation that results in greater regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. We also have projects underway at a number of current and former manufacturing facilities to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from past operations. Based upon our experience, current information, and applicable laws, we believe that it is probable that we will incur remedial costs in the range of approximately $12 million to $24 million. As of September 30, 2011, we believe that the best estimate within this range is approximately $13 million. We do not anticipate any material capital expenditures during fiscal 2012 for environmental control facilities or other costs of compliance with laws or regulations relating to greenhouse gas emissions. Available Information All periodic and current reports, registration filings, and other filings that we are required to file with the SEC, including Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act") are available free of charge through our internet website at www.te.com. Such documents are available as soon as reasonably practicable after electronic filing or furnishing of the material with the SEC. The public may also read and copy any document that we file, including this Annual Report, at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. Investors may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an internet site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, from which investors can electronically access our SEC filings. 11 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our securities. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Our business is also subject to risks that affect many other companies, such as general economic conditions, geopolitical events, competition, technological obsolescence, labor relations, natural disasters, and international operations. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Risks Relating to Our Business Conditions in global or regional economies, capital and money markets, and banking systems and cyclical industry demand may adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. Our business and operating results have been and will continue to be affected by economic conditions regionally or worldwide, including the cost and availability of consumer and business credit, end demand from consumer and industrial markets, and concerns as to sovereign debt levels including credit rating downgrades and defaults on sovereign debt, any of which could cause our customers to experience deterioration of their businesses, cash flow, and ability to obtain financing. As a result, existing or potential customers may delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and may not be able to fulfill their obligations to us in a timely fashion or in full. Further, our vendors may experience similar problems, which may impact their ability to fulfill our orders or meet agreed service and quality levels. If regional or global economic conditions deteriorate, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We are dependent on end market dynamics to sell our products, and our operating results can be adversely affected by cyclical and reduced demand in these markets. For example, the automotive industry, which accounted for approximately 34% of our net sales in fiscal 2011, has experienced a significant downturn in recent years as described below. The telecommunications industry, which accounted for approximately 14% of our net sales in fiscal 2011, has historically experienced periods of robust capital expenditure followed by periods of retrenchment and consolidation. The aerospace, defense, and marine industry, which accounted for 5% of our net sales in fiscal 2011, has undergone significant fluctuations in demand, depending on worldwide economic and political conditions. Periodic downturns in our customers' industries can significantly reduce demand for certain of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. We are dependent on the automotive industry which has experienced significant declines in recent years. Approximately 34% of our net sales for fiscal 2011 were to customers in the automotive industry. In recent years, automotive manufacturers globally have experienced lower levels of vehicle sales as a result of the 2009 economic downturn and credit conditions. Fiscal 2009 and 2010 sales levels were below fiscal 2008 levels. In fiscal 2011, sales increased and improved relative to prior years to reach fiscal 2008 levels. Additionally, the automotive industry is dominated by large manufacturers that can exert significant price pressure on their suppliers. As a supplier of automotive electronics products, our sales of these products and our profitability have been and could continue to be negatively affected by changes in the operations, products, business models, part-sourcing requirements, financial condition, and market share of automotive manufacturers, as well as potential consolidations among automotive manufacturers. We are dependent on the telecommunications, computer, and consumer electronics industries. Approximately 14% of our net sales for fiscal 2011 came from sales to the telecommunications industry. Demand for these products is subject to rapid technological change, and was and remains 12 Table of Contents affected by declines in consumer and business spending. Additionally, these markets are dominated by several large manufacturers that can exert significant price pressure on their suppliers. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete successfully in the telecommunications industry, and our inability to do so would materially impair our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. Approximately 8% of our net sales for fiscal 2011 came from sales to the computer and consumer electronics industries. Demand for our computer and consumer electronics products depends on underlying business and consumer demand for computer and consumer electronics products, as well as the market share of our customers. Demand was and remains affected by reduced spending. We cannot assure you that existing levels of business and consumer demand for new computer and consumer electronics products will not decrease. We encounter competition in substantially all areas of the electronic components industry. We operate in highly competitive markets for electronic components, and we expect that both direct and indirect competition will increase in the future. Our overall competitive position depends on a number of factors including the price, quality, and performance of our products, the level of customer service, the development of new technology, and our ability to participate in emerging markets. The competition we experience across product lines from other companies ranges in size from large, diversified manufacturers to small, highly specialized manufacturers. The electronic components industry has continued to become increasingly concentrated and globalized in recent years, and our major competitors have significant financial resources and technological capabilities. A number of these competitors compete with us primarily on price, and in some instances may enjoy lower production costs for certain products. We cannot assure you that additional competitors will not enter our markets, or that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or new competitors. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins, or loss of market share, any of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. We are dependent on market acceptance of new product introductions and product innovations for future revenue. Substantially all of the markets in which we operate are impacted by technological change or change in consumer tastes and preferences, which are rapid in certain end markets. Our operating results depend substantially upon our ability to continually design, develop, introduce, and sell new and innovative products, to modify existing products, and to customize products to meet customer requirements driven by such change. There are numerous risks inherent in these processes, including the risk that we will be unable to anticipate the direction of technological change or that we will be unable to develop and market profitable new products and applications in time to satisfy customer demands. Like other suppliers to the electronics industry, we are subject to continuing pressure to lower our prices. We have historically experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, continuing pressure to lower our prices. In recent years, we have experienced price erosion averaging from 1% to 2%. In order to maintain our margins, we must continue to reduce our costs by similar amounts. We cannot assure you that continuing pressures to reduce our prices will not have a material adverse effect on our margins, results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. Our results are sensitive to raw material availability, quality, and cost. We are a large buyer of resin, copper, gold, silver, brass, steel, chemicals and additives, zinc, and other precious metals. Many of these raw materials are produced in a limited number of countries 13 Table of Contents around the world or are only available from a limited number of suppliers. In addition, the price of many of these raw materials, including gold and copper, has increased in recent years and continues to fluctuate. Gold has recently traded at an all-time high. In recent years, we have only been able to partially offset these increases through higher selling prices. Our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected if we have difficulty obtaining these raw materials, the quality of available raw materials deteriorates, or there are continued significant price increases for these raw materials. Any of these events could have a substantial impact on the price we pay for raw materials and, to the extent we cannot compensate for cost increases through productivity improvements or price increases to our customers, our margins may decline, materially affecting our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. In addition, we use financial instruments to hedge the volatility of certain commodities prices. The success of our hedging program depends on accurate forecasts of planned consumption of the hedged commodity materials. We could experience unanticipated hedge gains or losses if these forecasts are inaccurate. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains provisions to improve the transparency and accountability concerning the supply of minerals coming from the conflict zones of the DRC. As a result, the SEC is required to establish new annual disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies who use "conflict" minerals mined from the DRC and adjoining countries in their products. When these new requirements are implemented, they could affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of certain of our products. As a result, there may only be a limited pool of suppliers who provide conflict free metals, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these metals in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Also, since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all metals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement. Foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results. We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on our costs and revenue. Approximately 55% of our net sales for fiscal 2011 were invoiced in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, and we expect non-U.S. Dollar revenue to represent a significant and likely increased portion of our future net revenue. Therefore, when the U.S. Dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of the countries where we sell our products, such as the Euro or Asian currencies, our U.S. Dollar reported revenue and income will decrease. Changes in the relative values of currencies may have a significant effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. We manage this risk in part by entering into financial derivative contracts. In addition to the risk of non-performance by the counterparty to these contracts, our efforts to manage these risks might not be successful. We may be negatively affected as our customers and vendors continue to consolidate. Many of the industries to which we sell our products, as well as many of the industries from which we buy materials, have become more concentrated in recent years, including the automotive, telecommunications, computer, and aerospace, defense, and marine industries. Consolidation of customers may lead to decreased product purchases from us. In addition, as our customers buy in larger volumes, their volume buying power has increased, and they have been able to negotiate more favorable pricing and find alternative sources from which to purchase. Our materials suppliers similarly have increased their ability to negotiate favorable pricing. These trends may adversely affect the profit margins on our products, particularly for commodity components. 14 Table of Contents The life cycles of our products can be very short. The life cycles of certain of our products can be very short relative to their development cycle. As a result, the resources devoted to product sales and marketing may not result in material revenue, and, from time to time, we may need to write off excess or obsolete inventory or equipment. If we were to incur significant engineering expenses and investments in inventory and equipment that we were not able to recover and we were not able to compensate for those expenses, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows would be materially and adversely affected. The ADC Telecommunications, Inc. acquisition and future acquisitions may not be successful. In December 2010, we acquired ADC Telecommunications, Inc. ("ADC"), and we regularly evaluate the possible acquisition of strategic businesses, product lines, or technologies which have the potential to strengthen our market position or enhance our existing product offerings. Risks associated with the completed acquisition of ADC include the risk that we do not fully integrate ADC successfully and the risk that revenue opportunities, cost savings, and other anticipated synergies from the transaction may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected. We also cannot assure you that we will identify or successfully complete transactions with other acquisition candidates in the future. Nor can we assure you that completed acquisitions will be successful. If an acquired business fails to operate as anticipated or cannot be successfully integrated with our existing business, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Future acquisitions could require us to issue additional debt or equity. If we were to undertake a substantial acquisition for cash, the acquisition may need to be financed in part through funding from banks, public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, or other arrangements. This acquisition financing might decrease our ratio of earnings to fixed charges and adversely affect other leverage measures. We cannot assure you that sufficient acquisition financing would be available to us on acceptable terms if and when required. If we were to undertake an acquisition partially or wholly funded by issuing equity securities or equity-linked securities, the issued securities may have a dilutive effect on the interests of the holders of our shares. We could suffer significant business interruptions. Our operations and those of our suppliers and customers and the supply chain that supports their operations may be vulnerable to interruption by natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis, typhoons, or floods, or other disasters such as fires, explosions, acts of terrorism or war, disease, or failures of management information or other systems due to internal or external causes. If a business interruption occurs, our business, financial position, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. On March 11, 2011, an earthquake occurred near the northeastern coast of Japan creating a tsunami that caused extensive damage. Our facilities in Japan were not materially damaged; however, there were disruptions in our customers' operations in Japan as well as in the supply chain that supports their operations. As a result, we experienced a negative impact on our sales and operations in fiscal 2011. We estimate that sales and diluted earnings per share were negatively impacted by $99 million and $0.07 per share, respectively, in fiscal 2011. There can be no assurance that the long-term consequence of the disaster will not adversely affect our business, financial position, and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Our future success is substantially dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, managerial, marketing, finance, and administrative personnel. Our success depends upon our continued ability to hire and retain key employees at our operations around the world. We depend on highly skilled technical personnel to design, manufacture, and support our wide range of electronic components. Additionally, we rely upon experienced managerial, marketing, and support personnel to manage our business effectively and to successfully promote our wide range of products. Any difficulties in obtaining or retaining the necessary global management, technical, human resource, and financial skills to achieve our objectives may have adverse affects on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. We may use components and products manufactured by third parties. We may rely on third-party suppliers for the components used in our products, and we may rely on third-party manufacturers to manufacture certain of our assemblies and finished products. Our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be adversely affected if such third parties lack sufficient quality control or if there are significant changes in their financial or business condition. We also have third-party arrangements for the manufacture of certain products, parts, and components. If these third parties fail to deliver quality products, parts, and components on time and at reasonable prices, we could have difficulties fulfilling our orders, sales and profits could decline, and our commercial reputation could be damaged. Our ability to compete effectively depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our products and technology. The electronics industry is characterized by litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Within this industry, companies have become more aggressive in asserting and defending patent claims against competitors. There can be no assurance that we will not be subject to future litigation alleging infringement or invalidity of certain of our intellectual property rights or that we will choose not to pursue litigation to protect our property rights. Depending on the importance of the technology, product, patent, trademark, or trade secret in question, an unfavorable outcome regarding one of these matters may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. A decline in the market value of our pension plans' investment portfolios or a reduction in returns on plan assets could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. Concerns about deterioration in the global economy, together with concerns about credit, inflation, or deflation, have caused and could continue to cause significant volatility in the price of all securities, including fixed income and equity, which has and could further reduce the value of our pension plans' investment portfolios. In addition, the expected returns on plan assets may not be achieved. A decrease in the value of our pension plans' investment portfolios or a reduction in returns on plan assets could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. Disruption in credit markets and volatility in equity markets may affect our ability to access sufficient funding. The global equity markets have been volatile and at times credit markets have been disrupted, which has reduced the availability of investment capital and credit. Recent downgrades of credit ratings of sovereign debt, including the U.S., has similarly affected the availability and cost of capital. As a result, we may be unable to access adequate funding to operate and grow our business. Our inability to access adequate funding or to generate sufficient cash from operations may require us to reconsider certain projects and capital expenditures. The extent of any impact will depend on several factors, 16 Table of Contents including our operating cash flows, the duration of tight credit conditions and volatile equity markets, our credit ratings and credit capacity, the cost of financing, and other general economic and business conditions. Divestitures of some of our businesses or product lines may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. While we have completed the divestiture of underperforming or non-strategic businesses and product lines that we began over four years ago, we continue to evaluate specific businesses and products which may result in additional divestitures. Any divestitures may result in significant write-offs, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Divestitures could involve additional risks, including difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products, and personnel, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, the disruption of our business, and the potential loss of key employees. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in addressing these or any other significant risks encountered. Recognition of impairment charges for our goodwill could negatively affect our results of operations. We test goodwill allocated to reporting units for impairment annually during the fourth fiscal quarter, or more frequently if events occur or circumstances exist that indicate that a reporting unit's carrying value may exceed its fair value. We completed our annual goodwill impairment test in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 and determined that no impairment existed. Significant judgment is involved in determining if an indicator of impairment has occurred. In making this assessment, we rely on a number of reporting unit specific factors including operating results, business plans, economic projections, and anticipated future cash flows. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and management's judgment in applying each to the analysis of the recoverability of goodwill. Should economic conditions further deteriorate or remain depressed, estimates of future cash flows for our reporting units may be insufficient to support carrying value and the goodwill assigned to it, requiring us to test for impairment. Impairment charges, if any, may be material to our results of operations and financial position. If any of our operations are found not to comply with applicable antitrust or competition laws or applicable trade regulations, our business may suffer. Our operations are subject to applicable antitrust and competition laws in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business, in particular the United States and the European Union. These laws prohibit, among other things, anticompetitive agreements and practices. If any of our commercial, including distribution, agreements and practices with respect to the electrical components or other markets are found to violate or infringe such laws, we may be subject to civil and other penalties. We also may be subject to third party claims for damages. Further, agreements that infringe these antitrust and competition laws may be void and unenforceable, in whole or in part, or require modification in order to be lawful and enforceable. If we are unable to enforce any of our commercial agreements, whether at all or in material part, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be adversely affected. Further, any failure to maintain compliance with trade regulations could limit our ability to import and export raw materials and finished goods into or from the relevant jurisdiction, which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. 17 Table of Contents We are subject to global risks of political, economic, and military instability. Our workforce, manufacturing, research, administrative, and sales facilities, markets, customers, and suppliers are located throughout the world, and we are exposed to risks that could negatively affect sales or profitability, including: •tariffs, trade barriers, and trade disputes; •regulations related to customs and import/export matters; •variations in lengths of payment cycles; •tax issues, such as tax law changes, examinations by taxing authorities, variations in tax laws from country to country, and difficulties in repatriating in a tax-efficient manner cash generated or held in a number of jurisdictions; •challenges in collecting accounts receivable; •employment regulations and local labor conditions; •difficulties protecting intellectual property; •instability in economic or political conditions, including sovereign debt levels, inflation, recession, and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; and •the impact of each of the foregoing on our outsourcing and procurement arrangements. We have sizeable operations in China, including 17 manufacturing sites. In addition, 15% of our net sales in fiscal 2011 were made to customers in China. The legal system in China is still developing and is subject to change. Accordingly, our operations and orders for products in China could be adversely affected by changes to or interpretation of Chinese law. In addition, Standard & Poor's recent credit rating downgrade of long-term U.S. sovereign debt, any future downgrade by other rating agencies of long-term U.S. sovereign debt, or downgrades or defaults of sovereign debt of other nations may negatively affect global financial markets and economic conditions, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition and liquidity. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Anti-Bribery Act, and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA"), the U.K. Anti-Bribery Act, and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Despite our training and compliance program, we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. Our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, litigation, and violations. We are subject to numerous federal, state, and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations in the various countries where we operate governing, among other things: •the generation, storage, use, and transportation of hazardous materials; •emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; 18 Table of Contents •investigation and remediation of hazardous substances or materials at various sites; •greenhouse gas emissions; and •the health and safety of our employees. We may not have been, or we may not at all times be, in compliance with environmental and health and safety laws. If we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged, or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. In addition, environmental and health and safety laws are becoming more stringent resulting in increased costs and compliance burdens. Certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the costs of investigation, removal, or remediation of hazardous substances or materials at their properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. Liability for investigative, removal, and remedial costs under certain federal and state laws are retroactive, strict, and joint and several. In addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. We have received notification from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and similar state environmental agencies that conditions at a number of formerly owned sites where we and others have disposed of hazardous substances require investigation, cleanup, and other possible remedial action and may require that we reimburse the government or otherwise pay for the costs of investigation and remediation and for natural resource damage claims from such sites. While we plan for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with environmental laws, we cannot assure you that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows or that we will not be subject to additional environmental claims for personal injury or cleanup in the future based on our past, present, or future business activities. Our products are subject to various requirements related to chemical usage, hazardous material content, and recycling. The EU, China, and other jurisdictions in which our products are sold have enacted or are proposing to enact laws addressing environmental and other impacts from product disposal, use of hazardous materials in products, use of chemicals in manufacturing, recycling of products at the end of their useful life, and other related matters. These laws include the EU Restriction of Hazardous Substances, End of Life Vehicle, and Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directives, the EU REACH (chemical registration) Directive, the China law on Management Methods for Controlling Pollution by Electronic Information Products, and various other laws. These laws prohibit the use of certain substances in the manufacture of our products and directly and indirectly impose a variety of requirements for modification of manufacturing processes, registration, chemical testing, labeling, and other matters. These laws continue to proliferate and expand in these and other jurisdictions to address other materials and other aspects of our product manufacturing and sale. These laws could make manufacture or sale of our products more expensive or impossible and could limit our ability to sell our products in certain jurisdictions. We are a defendant to a variety of litigation in the course of our business that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. In the ordinary course of business, we are a defendant in litigation, including litigation alleging the infringement of intellectual property rights, anti-competitive behavior, product liability, breach of contract, and employment-related claims. In certain circumstances, patent infringement and antitrust 19 Table of Contents laws permit successful plaintiffs to recover treble damages. The defense of these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. In addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. Covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us. Our bank credit facility contains financial and other covenants, such as a limit on the ratio of debt (as defined in the credit facility) to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (as defined in the credit facility) and limits on the amount of subsidiary debt and incurrence of liens. Our outstanding notes indentures contain customary covenants including limits on incurrence of liens, sale and lease-back transactions, and our ability to consolidate, merge, and sell assets. Although none of these covenants are presently restrictive to our operations, our continued ability to meet the bank credit facility financial covenant can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to comply with the covenant. A breach of any of our covenants could result in a default under our credit facility or indentures. Upon the occurrence of certain defaults under our credit facility and indentures, the lenders or trustee could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable, and our lenders could terminate commitments to extend further credit under our bank credit facility. If the lenders or trustee accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets or access to lenders or capital markets to repay or fund the repayment of any amounts outstanding under our credit facility and our other affected indebtedness. Acceleration of any debt obligation under any of our material debt instruments may permit the holders or trustee of our other material debt to accelerate payment of debt obligations to the creditors thereunder. The indentures governing our outstanding senior notes contain covenants that may require us to offer to buy back the notes for a price equal to 101% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, to the repurchase date, upon a change of control triggering event (as defined in the indentures). We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient funds available or access to funding to repurchase tendered notes in that event, which could result in a default under the notes. Any future debt that we incur may contain covenants regarding repurchases in the event of a change of control triggering event. Risks Relating to Our Separation from Tyco International We share responsibility for certain of our, Tyco International's, and Covidien's income tax liabilities for tax periods prior to and including the distribution date. In connection with our separation from Tyco International in 2007, we, Tyco International, and its former healthcare businesses ("Covidien") entered into a Tax Sharing Agreement pursuant to which we share responsibility for certain of our, Tyco International's, and Covidien's income tax liabilities based on a sharing formula for periods prior to and including June 29, 2007. More specifically, we, Tyco International, and Covidien share 31%, 27%, and 42%, respectively, of U.S. income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to our, Tyco International's, and Covidien's U.S. income tax returns, certain income tax liabilities arising from adjustments made by tax authorities to intercompany transactions or similar adjustments, and certain taxes attributable to internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation. All costs and expenses associated with the management of these shared tax liabilities are shared equally among the parties. We are responsible for all of our own taxes that are not shared pursuant to the Tax Sharing Agreement's sharing formula. In addition, Tyco International and Covidien are responsible for their tax liabilities that are not subject to the Tax Sharing Agreement's sharing formula. 20 Table of Contents All the tax liabilities that are associated with our businesses, including liabilities that arose prior to our separation from Tyco International, became our tax liabilities. Although we agreed to share certain of these tax liabilities with Tyco International and Covidien pursuant to the Tax Sharing Agreement, we remain primarily liable for all of these liabilities. If Tyco International and Covidien default on their obligations to us under the Tax Sharing Agreement, we would be liable for the entire amount of these liabilities. If any party to the Tax Sharing Agreement were to default in its obligation to another party to pay its share of the distribution taxes that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay, equally with any other non-defaulting party, the amounts in default. In addition, if another party to the Tax Sharing Agreement that is responsible for all or a portion of an income tax liability were to default in its payment of such liability to a taxing authority, we could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. Accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of our, Tyco International's, and Covidien's tax liabilities. Our, Tyco International's, and Covidien's income tax returns are examined periodically by various tax authorities. In connection with such examinations, tax authorities, including the U.S. Internal Revenue Service ("IRS"), have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments. We are reviewing and contesting certain of the proposed tax adjustments. Amounts related to these tax adjustments and other tax contingencies and related interest that we have assessed under the uncertain tax position provisions of Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 740, Income Taxes, have been reflected as liabilities on the Consolidated Financial Statements. The calculation of our tax liabilities includes estimates for uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations across multiple global jurisdictions where we conduct our operations. We recognize liabilities for tax as well as related interest for issues in the U.S. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and related interest will be due. These tax liabilities and related interest are reflected net of the impact of related tax loss carryforwards. These estimates may change due to changing facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a settlement that differs from our current estimate of the tax liabilities and related interest. Under the Tax Sharing Agreement, Tyco International has the right to administer, control, and settle all U.S. income tax audits for periods prior to and including June 29, 2007. The timing, nature, and amount of any settlement agreed to by Tyco International may not be in our best interests. Moreover, the other parties to the Tax Sharing Agreement will be able to remove Tyco International as the controlling party only under limited circumstances, including a change of control or bankruptcy of Tyco International, or by a majority vote of the parties on or after the second anniversary of the distribution. All other tax audits will be administered, controlled, and settled by the party that would be responsible for paying the tax. In September 2011, Tyco International announced its intention to spin-off two of its businesses to its shareholders, with Tyco International remaining as a publicly-traded company. Although these transactions are in preliminary stages, we expect that Tyco International will continue to meet its legal obligations under the Tax Sharing Agreement. If the distribution or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation are determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. Tyco International received private letter rulings from the IRS regarding the U.S. federal income tax consequences of the distribution of our common shares and Covidien common shares to the Tyco International shareholders substantially to the effect that the distribution, except for cash received in lieu of a fractional share of our common shares and the Covidien common shares, will qualify as 21 Table of Contents tax-free under Sections 368(a)(1)(D) and 355 of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code"). The private letter rulings also provided that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation would qualify for favorable treatment under the Code. In addition to obtaining the private letter rulings, Tyco International obtained opinions from outside legal counsel confirming the tax-free status of the distribution and certain internal transactions. The private letter rulings and the opinions relied on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations and undertakings, from us, Tyco International, and Covidien regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. Notwithstanding the private letter rulings and the opinions, the IRS could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations, or undertakings are not correct or have been violated, or that the distributions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in stock or asset ownership after the distribution. If the distribution ultimately is determined to be taxable, Tyco International would recognize gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of our common shares and Covidien common shares distributed to Tyco International shareholders on the distribution date over Tyco International's tax basis in such common shares, but such gain, if recognized, generally would not be subject to U.S. federal income tax. However, we would incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities if it is ultimately determined that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation should be treated as taxable transactions. In addition, under the terms of the Tax Sharing Agreement, in the event the distribution or the internal transactions were determined to be taxable and such determination was the result of actions taken after the distribution by us, Tyco International, or Covidien, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed on us, Tyco International, or Covidien as a result thereof. If such determination is not the result of actions taken after the distribution by us, Tyco International, or Covidien, then we, Tyco International, or Covidien would be responsible for 31%, 27%, and 42%, respectively, of any taxes imposed on us, Tyco International, or Covidien as a result of such determination. Such tax amounts could be significant. In the event that any party to the Tax Sharing Agreement defaults in its obligation to pay distribution taxes to another party that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be responsible for an equal amount of the defaulting party's obligation to make a payment to another party in respect of such other party's taxes. Risks Relating to Our Swiss Jurisdiction of Incorporation Legislative and other proposals in Switzerland, the United States, and other jurisdictions could cause a material change in our worldwide effective corporate tax rate. Various U.S. and non-U.S. legislative proposals and other initiatives have been directed at companies incorporated in lower-tax jurisdictions. We believe that recently there has been heightened focus on adoption of such legislation and other initiatives as various jurisdictions look for solutions to fiscal deficits. If adopted, these proposed changes could materially increase our worldwide corporate effective tax rate. We cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals or initiatives, and we cannot assure you that any such legislation or initiative will not apply to us. Legislation in the United States could adversely impact our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. Various U.S. federal and state legislative proposals have been introduced in recent years that may negatively impact the growth of our business by denying government contracts to U.S. companies that have moved to lower-tax jurisdictions. We expect the U.S. Congress to continue to consider implementation and/or expansion of policies that would restrict the federal and state governments from contracting with entities that have corporate 22 Table of Contents locations abroad. We believe that we are less likely to be subject to such proposals since becoming a Swiss corporation in June 2009. However, we cannot predict the likelihood that, or final form in which, any such proposed legislation might become law, the nature of regulations that may be promulgated under any future legislative enactments, the effect such enactments and increased regulatory scrutiny may have on our business, or the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. Therefore, we cannot assure you that any such legislative action will not apply to us. In addition, we are unable to predict whether the final form of any potential legislation discussed above also would affect our indirect sales to U.S. federal or state governments or the willingness of our non-governmental customers to do business with us. As a result of these uncertainties, we are unable to assess the potential impact of any proposed legislation in this area and cannot assure you that the impact will not be materially adverse to us. As a Swiss corporation, we have less flexibility with respect to certain aspects of capital management involving the issuance of shares. As a Swiss corporation, our board of directors may not declare and pay dividends or distributions on our shares or reclassify reserves on our standalone unconsolidated Swiss balance sheet without shareholder approval and without satisfying certain other requirements. Our articles of association allow us to create authorized share capital that can be issued by the board of directors, but this authorization is limited to (i) authorized share capital up to 50% of the existing registered shares with such authorization valid for a maximum of two years, which authorization period ends on March 9, 2013, and (ii) conditional share capital of up to 50% of the existing registered shares that may be issued only for specific purposes. Additionally, subject to specified exceptions, Swiss law grants preemptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares from authorized share capital and advance subscription rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares from conditional share capital. Swiss law also does not provide much flexibility in the various terms that can attach to different classes of shares, and reserves for approval by shareholders many types of corporate actions, including the creation of shares with preferential rights with respect to liquidation, dividends, and/or voting. Moreover, under Swiss law, we generally may not issue registered shares for an amount below par value without prior shareholder approval to decrease the par value of our registered shares. Any such actions for which our shareholders must vote will require that we file a preliminary proxy statement with the SEC and convene a meeting of shareholders, which would delay the timing to execute such actions. Such limitations provide the board of directors less flexibility with respect to our capital management. While we do not believe that Swiss law requirements relating to the issuance of shares will have a material adverse effect on us, we cannot assure you that situations will not arise where such flexibility would have provided substantial benefits to our shareholders and such limitations on our capital management flexibility would make our stock less attractive to investors. Swiss law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. We are organized under the laws of Switzerland. It may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the United States against us in Switzerland based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws. In addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of Switzerland would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. We have been advised that the United States and Switzerland currently do not have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Some remedies available under the laws of United States jurisdictions, including some remedies available under the U.S. federal securities laws, would not be allowed in Swiss courts as they are contrary to that nation's public policy. 23 Table of Contents Swiss corporate law, which applies to us, differs in certain material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. These differences include the manner in which directors must disclose transactions in which they have an interest, the rights of shareholders to bring class action and derivative lawsuits, and the scope of indemnification available to directors and officers. Thus, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States. Risks Relating to Our Shares The market price of our shares may fluctuate widely. The market price of our shares may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, including: •our quarterly or annual earnings; •changes in quarterly or annual sales or earnings guidance that we may provide; •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; •volatility in financial markets and market fluctuations caused by global economic conditions and investors' concerns about potential risks to future economic growth; •changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; •changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations, or principles; •announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; and •the operating and stock price performance of comparable companies and companies that serve end markets important to our business. We might not be able to make distributions on our shares without subjecting shareholders to Swiss withholding tax. In order to make distributions on our shares to shareholders free of Swiss withholding tax, we anticipate making distributions to shareholders through a reduction of contributed surplus (as determined for Swiss tax purposes) or registered share capital. Interpretations of recently enacted Swiss tax legislation and various proposals in Switzerland for tax law and corporate law changes, if passed in the future, may affect our ability to pay dividends or distributions to our shareholders free from Swiss withholding tax. We are in discussions with Swiss tax authorities regarding certain administrative aspects of recently enacted Swiss tax legislation related to the classification of Swiss contributed surplus in our Swiss statutory financial statements for tax and statutory reporting purposes. Should we not be successful in our discussions, we may need to formally enter into an appeal process in order to gain a favorable ruling. Should we not gain favorable resolution, we may be required to make certain statutory reclassifications to Swiss contributed surplus in our Swiss statutory financial statements that likely will limit our ability to make distributions on our shares free of Swiss withholding tax in future years. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet the legal requirements for future distributions to shareholders through dividends from contributed surplus (as determined for Swiss tax purposes) or through a reduction of registered share capital, or that Swiss withholding rules would not be changed in the future. In addition, over the long term, the amount of registered share capital available for reductions will be limited. Our ability to pay dividends or distributions to our shareholders free from Swiss withholding tax is a significant component of our capital management and shareholder return practices that we believe is important to our shareholders and any restriction on our ability to do so could make our stock less attractive to investors. 24 Table of Contents Currency fluctuations between the U.S. Dollar and the Swiss Franc may limit the amount available for any future distributions on our shares without subjecting shareholders to Swiss withholding tax. Under Swiss corporate law, we are required to state our year end unconsolidated Swiss statutory financial statements in Swiss Francs. Although distributions that are effected through a return of contributed surplus or registered share capital are expected to be paid in U.S. Dollars, shareholder resolutions with respect to such distributions are required to be stated in Swiss Francs. If the U.S. Dollar were to increase in value relative to the Swiss Franc, the U.S. Dollar amount of registered share capital available for future distributions without Swiss withholding tax will decrease. We have certain limitations on our ability to repurchase our shares. The Swiss Code of Obligations regulates a corporation's ability to hold or repurchase its own shares. We and our subsidiaries may only repurchase shares to the extent that sufficient freely distributable reserves (including contributed surplus as determined for Swiss tax purposes) are available. The aggregate par value of our registered shares held by us and our subsidiaries may not exceed 10% of our registered share capital. We may repurchase our registered shares beyond the statutory limit of 10%, however, only if our shareholders have adopted a resolution at a general meeting of shareholders authorizing the board of directors to repurchase registered shares in an amount in excess of 10% and the repurchased shares are dedicated for cancellation. Additionally, interpretations of recently enacted Swiss tax legislation and various proposals in Switzerland for tax law and corporate law changes, if passed in the future, may affect our ability to repurchase our shares. We are in discussions with Swiss tax authorities regarding certain administrative aspects of recently enacted Swiss tax legislation related to the classification of Swiss contributed surplus in our Swiss statutory financial statements for tax and statutory reporting purposes. Should we not be successful in our discussions, we may need to formally enter into an appeal process in order to gain a favorable ruling. Should we not gain favorable resolution, we may be required to make certain statutory reclassifications to Swiss contributed surplus in our Swiss statutory financial statements that may negatively impact our ability to repurchase our shares. Our ability to repurchase our shares is a significant component of our capital management and shareholder return practices that we believe is important to our shareholders and any restriction on our ability to repurchase our shares could make our stock less attractive to investors. Registered holders of our shares must be registered as shareholders with voting rights in order to vote at shareholder meetings. Our articles of association contain a provision regarding voting rights that is required by Swiss law for Swiss companies like us that issue registered shares (as opposed to bearer shares). This provision provides that to be able to exercise voting rights, holders of our shares must be registered in our share register (Aktienbuch) as shareholders with voting rights. Only shareholders whose shares have been registered with voting rights on the record date may participate in and vote at our shareholders' meetings, but all shareholders will be entitled to dividends, distributions, preemptive rights, advance subscription rights, and liquidation proceeds. The board of directors may, in its discretion, refuse to register shares as shares with voting rights if a shareholder does not fulfill certain disclosure requirements as set forth in our articles of association. Additionally, various proposals in Switzerland for corporate law changes, if passed in the future, may require shareholder registration in order to exercise voting rights for shareholders who hold their shares in street name through brokerages and banks. Such a registration requirement could make our stock less attractive to investors. 25 Table of Contents Certain provisions of our articles of association may reduce the likelihood of any unsolicited acquisition proposal or potential change of control that our shareholders might consider favorable. Our articles of association contain provisions that could be considered "anti-takeover" provisions because they would make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our incumbent board of directors. Under these provisions, among others: •shareholders may act only at shareholder meetings and not by written consent, and •restrictions will apply to any merger or other business combination between our company and any holder of 15% or more of our issued voting shares who became such without the prior approval of our board of directors, both of which provisions may only be amended by the affirmative vote of the holders of 80% of our issued voting shares, which could have the effect of discouraging an unsolicited acquisition proposal or delaying, deferring, or preventing a change of control transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be considered favorably by our shareholders. Our articles of association also contain provisions permitting our board of directors to issue new shares from authorized or conditional capital (in either case, representing a maximum of 50% of the shares presently registered in the commercial register and in the case of issuances from authorized capital, until March 9, 2013 unless re-authorized by shareholders for a subsequent two-year period) without shareholder approval and without regard for shareholders' preemptive rights or advance subscription rights, for the purpose of the defense of an actual, threatened, or potential unsolicited takeover bid, in relation to which the board of directors, upon consultation with an independent financial advisor, has not recommended acceptance to the shareholders. We note that Swiss courts have not addressed whether or not a takeover bid of this nature is an acceptable reason under Swiss law for withdrawing or limiting preemptive rights with respect to authorized share capital or advance subscription rights with respect to conditional share capital. In addition, the New York Stock Exchange, on which our shares are listed, requires shareholder approval for issuances of shares equal to 20% or more of the outstanding shares or voting power, with limited exceptions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 