Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business depends on film production and performance. Our business depends on both the availability of suitable films for exhibition in our theatres and the success of those pictures in our markets. Poor performance of films, the disruption in the production of films due to events such as a strike by directors, writers or actors, or a reduction in the marketing efforts of the film distributors to promote their films could have an adverse effect on our business by resulting in fewer patrons and reduced revenues. A deterioration in relationships with film distributors could adversely affect our ability to obtain commercially successful films. We rely on the film distributors for the motion pictures shown in our theatres. The film distribution business is highly concentrated, with six major film distributors accounting for approximately 78% of U.S. box office revenues and 42 of the top 50 grossing films during 2007. Numerous antitrust cases and consent decrees resulting from these cases impact the distribution of motion pictures. The consent decrees bind certain major film distributors to license films to exhibitors on a theatre-by-theatre and film-by-film basis. Consequently, we cannot guarantee a supply of films by entering into long-term arrangements with major distributors. We are therefore required to negotiate licenses for each film and for each theatre. A deterioration in our relationship with any of the six major film distributors could adversely affect our ability to obtain commercially successful films and to negotiate favorable licensing terms for such films, both of which could adversely affect our business and operating results. We face intense competition for patrons and film licensing which may adversely affect our business. The motion picture industry is highly competitive. We compete against local, regional, national and international exhibitors. We compete for both patrons and licensing of motion pictures. The competition for patrons is dependent upon such factors as the availability of popular motion pictures, the location and number of theatres and screens in a market, the comfort and quality of the theatres and pricing. Some of our competitors have greater resources and may have lower costs. The principal competitive factors with respect to film licensing include licensing terms, number of seats and screens available for a particular picture, revenue potential and the location and condition of an exhibitor’s theatres. If we are unable to license successful films, our business may be adversely affected. The oversupply of screens in the motion picture exhibition industry and other factors may adversely affect the performance of some of our theatres. During the period between 1996 and 2000, theatre exhibitor companies emphasized the development of large multiplexes. The strategy of aggressively building multiplexes was adopted throughout the industry and resulted in an oversupply of screens in the North American exhibition industry and negatively impacted many older multiplex theatres more than expected. Many of these theatres have long lease commitments making them financially burdensome to close prior to the expiration of the lease term, even theatres that are unprofitable. Where theatres have been closed, landlords have often made rent concessions to small independent or regional operators to keep the theatres open since theatre buildings are typically limited in alternative uses. As a result, some analysts believe that there continues to be an oversupply of screens in the North American exhibition industry, as screen counts have increased each year since 2003. If competitors build theatres in the markets we serve, the performance of some of our theatres could be adversely affected due to increased competition. An increase in the use of alternative or “downstream” film distribution channels and other competing forms of entertainment may drive down movie theatre attendance and limit ticket price growth. We face competition for patrons from a number of alternative motion picture distribution channels, such as DVDs, network and syndicated television, video on-demand, pay-per-view television and downloading utilizing the Internet. We also compete with other forms of entertainment competing for our patrons’ leisure time and disposable income such as concerts, amusement parks and sporting events. A significant increase in popularity of these alternative film distribution channels and competing forms of entertainment could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Our results of operations may be impacted by shrinking video release windows. Over the last decade, the average video release window, which represents the time that elapses from the date of a film’s theatrical release to the date a film is available on DVD, an important downstream market, has decreased from approximately six months to approximately four months. We cannot assure you that this release window, which is determined by the film studios, will not shrink further or be eliminated altogether, which could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. We have substantial long-term lease and debt obligations, which may restrict our ability to fund current and future operations. We have significant long-term debt service obligations and long-term lease obligations. As of December 31, 2007, we had $1,574.4 million in long-term debt obligations, $121.2 million in capital lease obligations and $1,958.4 million in long-term operating lease obligations. We incurred $145.6 million of interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2007. We incurred $212.7 million of rent expense for the year ended December 31, 2007 under operating leases (with terms, excluding renewal options, ranging from one to 30 years). Our substantial lease and debt obligations pose risk to you by: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations; • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our lease and debt obligations, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other corporate requirements and to pay dividends; • impeding our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate purposes; • subjecting us to the risk of increased sensitivity to interest rate increases on our variable rate debt, including our borrowings under our senior secured credit facility; and • making us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business and competitive pressures and limiting our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business. Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal and interest with respect to our indebtedness and service our lease obligations will depend on our ability to generate cash flow from our operations. To a certain extent, our ability to generate cash flow is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will continue to generate cash flow at current levels. If we fail to make any required payment under the agreements governing our indebtedness or fail to comply with the financial and operating covenants contained in them, we would be in default and our lenders would have the ability to require that we immediately repay our outstanding indebtedness. If we fail to make any required payment under our leases, we would be in default and our landlords would have the ability to terminate our leases and re-enter the premises. Subject to the restrictions contained in our indebtedness agreements, we expect to incur additional indebtedness from time to time to finance acquisitions, capital expenditures, working capital requirements and other general business purposes. In addition, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, including Cinemark USA, Inc.’s senior secured credit facility and Cinemark, Inc.’s 9 3/4% senior discount notes, on or before maturity. However, we may not be able to refinance all or any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We are subject to various covenants in our debt agreements that restrict our ability to enter into certain transactions. The agreements governing our debt obligations contain various financial and operating covenants that limit our ability to engage in certain transactions, that require us not to allow specific events to occur or that require us to apply proceeds from certain transactions to reduce indebtedness. If we fail to make any required payment under the agreements governing our indebtedness or fail to comply with the financial and operating covenants contained in them, we would be in default, and our debt holders would have the ability to require that we immediately repay our outstanding indebtedness. Any such defaults could materially impair our financial condition and liquidity. We cannot assure you that we would be able to refinance our outstanding indebtedness if debt holders require repayments as a result of a default. 13 Table of Contents General political, social and economic conditions can adversely affect our attendance. Our results of operations are dependent on general political, social and economic conditions, and the impact of such conditions on our theatre operating costs and on the willingness of consumers to spend money at movie theatres. If consumers’ discretionary income declines as a result of an economic downturn, our operations could be adversely affected. If theatre operating costs, such as utility costs, increase due to political or economic changes, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Political events, such as terrorist attacks, could cause people to avoid our theatres or other public places where large crowds are in attendance. Our foreign operations are subject to adverse regulations and currency exchange risk. We have 121 theatres with 1,011 screens in twelve countries in Latin America. Brazil and Mexico represented approximately 9.3% and 4.5% of our consolidated 2007 revenues, respectively. Governmental regulation of the motion picture industry in foreign markets differs from that in the United States. Regulations affecting prices, quota systems requiring the exhibition of locally-produced films and restrictions on ownership of land may adversely affect our international operations in foreign markets. Our international operations are subject to certain political, economic and other uncertainties not encountered by our domestic operations, including risks of severe economic downturns and high inflation. We also face the additional risks of currency fluctuations, hard currency shortages and controls of foreign currency exchange and transfers abroad, all of which could have an adverse effect on the results of our international operations. We may not be able to generate additional revenues or realize value from our investment in NCM. We joined Regal and AMC as founding members of NCM in 2005. After the completion of NCM Inc.’s initial public offering, we continue to own a 14% interest in NCM. In connection with the NCM Inc. initial public offering, we modified our Exhibitor Services Agreement to reflect a shift from circuit share expense under the prior exhibitor service agreement, which obligated NCM to pay us a percentage of revenue, to a monthly theatre access fee. The theatre access fee has significantly reduced the contractual amounts paid to us by NCM. Cinema advertising is a small component of the U.S. advertising market. Accordingly, NCM competes with larger, established and well known media platforms such as broadcast radio and television, cable and satellite television, outdoor advertising and Internet portals. NCM also competes with other cinema advertising companies and with hotels, conference centers, arenas, restaurants and convention facilities for its non-film related events to be shown in our auditoriums. In-theatre advertising may not continue to attract advertisers or NCM’s in-theatre advertising format may not continue to be received favorably by the theatre-going public. If NCM is unable to continue to generate expected sales of advertising, it may not maintain the level of profitability we hope to achieve, its results of operations may be adversely affected and our investment in and revenues from NCM may be adversely impacted. We are subject to uncertainties related to digital cinema, including potentially high costs of re-equipping theatres with projectors to show digital movies. Digital cinema is still in an experimental stage in our industry. Some of our competitors have commenced a roll-out of digital equipment for exhibiting feature films. There are multiple parties vying for the position of being the primary generator of the digital projector roll-out for exhibiting feature films. However, significant obstacles exist that impact such a roll-out plan including the cost of digital projectors, the substantial investment in re-equipping theatres and determining who will be responsible for such costs. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain financing arrangements to fund our portion of the digital cinema roll-out nor that such financing will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. We are subject to uncertainties relating to future expansion plans, including our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates or site locations. We have greatly expanded our operations over the last decade through targeted worldwide theatre development and the Century Acquisition. We will continue to pursue a strategy of expansion that will involve the development of new theatres and may involve acquisitions of existing theatres and theatre circuits both in the U.S. and internationally. There is significant competition for new site locations and for existing theatre and theatre circuit acquisition opportunities. As a result of such competition, we may not be able to acquire attractive site locations, existing theatres or theatre circuits on terms we consider acceptable. We cannot assure you that our expansion strategy will result in improvements to our 14 Table of Contents business, financial condition or profitability. Further, our expansion programs may require financing above our existing borrowing capacity and internally generated funds. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such financing nor that such financing will be available to us on acceptable terms. If we do not comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and a consent order we entered into with the Department of Justice, we could be subject to further litigation. Our theatres must comply with Title III of the ADA and analogous state and local laws. Compliance with the ADA requires among other things that public facilities “reasonably accommodate” individuals with disabilities and that new construction or alterations made to “commercial facilities” conform to accessibility guidelines unless “structurally impracticable” for new construction or technically infeasible for alterations. In March 1999, the Department of Justice, or DOJ, filed suit against us in Ohio alleging certain violations of the ADA relating to wheelchair seating arrangements in certain of our stadium-style theatres and seeking remedial action. We and the DOJ have resolved this lawsuit and a consent order was entered by the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio, Eastern Division, on November 15, 2004. Under the consent order, we are required to make modifications to wheelchair seating locations in fourteen stadium-style movie theatres and spacing and companion seating modifications in 67 auditoriums at other stadium-styled movie theatres. These modifications must be completed by November 2009. We are currently in compliance with the consent order. Upon completion of these modifications, these theatres will comply with wheelchair seating requirements, and no further modifications will be required to our other stadium-style movie theatres in the United States existing on the date of the consent order. In addition, under the consent order, the DOJ approved the seating plans for nine stadium-styled movie theatres then under construction and also created a safe harbor framework for us to construct all of our future stadium-style movie theatres. The DOJ has stipulated that all theatres built in compliance with the consent order will comply with the wheelchair seating requirements of the ADA. If we fail to comply with the ADA, remedies could include imposition of injunctive relief, fines, awards for damages to private litigants and additional capital expenditures to remedy non-compliance. Imposition of significant fines, damage awards or capital expenditures to cure non-compliance could adversely affect our business and operating results. We depend on key personnel for our current and future performance. Our current and future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and other key personnel. The loss or unavailability to us of any member of our senior management team or a key employee could significantly harm us. We cannot assure you that we would be able to locate or employ qualified replacements for senior management or key employees on acceptable terms. We are subject to impairment losses due to potential declines in the fair value of our assets. We review long-lived assets for impairment on a quarterly basis or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the assets may not be fully recoverable. We assess many factors when determining whether to impair individual theatre assets, including actual theatre level cash flows, future years budgeted theatre level cash flows, theatre property and equipment carrying values, theatre goodwill carrying values, the age of a recently built theatre, competitive theatres in the marketplace, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, the impact of recent ticket price changes, available lease renewal options and other factors considered relevant in our assessment of impairment of individual theatre assets. The impairment evaluation is based on the estimated cash flows from continuing use through the remainder of the theatre’s useful life. The remainder of the useful life correlates with the available remaining lease period, which includes the probability of renewal periods, for leased properties and a period of twenty years for fee owned properties. If the estimated cash flows are not sufficient to recover a long-lived asset’s carrying value, we then compare the carrying value of the asset group (theatre) with its estimated fair value. Fair value is determined based on a multiple of cash flows, which was seven times for 2005 and eight times for the evaluations performed during 2006 and 2007. When estimated fair value is determined to be lower than the carrying value of the asset group (theatre), the asset group (theatre) is written down to its estimated fair value. Significant judgment is involved in estimating cash flows and fair value. Management’s estimates are based on historical and projected operating performance as well as recent market transactions. We also test goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment at least annually in accordance with SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.” Goodwill and other intangible assets are tested for impairment at the reporting unit level at least annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors considered include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected business and 15 Table of Contents significant negative industry or economic trends. Goodwill impairment is evaluated using a two-step approach requiring us to compute the fair value of a reporting unit (generally at the theatre level), and compare it with its carrying value. If the carrying value of the theatre exceeds its fair value, a second step would be performed to measure the potential goodwill impairment. Fair value is estimated based on a multiple of cash flows, which was seven times for 2005 and eight times for the evaluations performed during 2006 and 2007. Significant judgment is involved in estimating cash flows and fair value. Management’s estimates are based on historical and projected operating performance as well as recent market transactions. We allocate goodwill at the theatre level. This results in more volatile impairment charges on an annual basis due to changes in market conditions and box office performance and the resulting impact on individual theatres. We recorded asset impairment charges, including goodwill impairment charges, of $51.7 million, $28.5 million and $86.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. We cannot assure you that additional impairment charges will not be required in the future, and such charges may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Notes 10 and 11 to the consolidated financial statements. Our results of operations vary from period to period based upon the quantity and quality of the motion pictures that we show in our theatres. Our results of operations vary from period to period based upon the quantity and quality of the motion pictures that we show in our theatres. The major film distributors generally release the films they anticipate will be most successful during the summer and holiday seasons. Consequently, we typically generate higher revenues during these periods. Due to the dependency on the success of films released from one period to the next, results of operations for one period may not be indicative of the results for the following period or the same period in the following year. 