Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the risk factors described below, and all other information contained in or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before making an investment decision. If any of the following risks actually occur, they may materially harm our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows. As a result, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not yet identified or that we think are immaterial may also materially harm our business, operating results or financial condition and could result in a complete loss of your investment. Risks Related to our Business Our success depends on our ability to obtain regulatory approval for our lead product candidate NGX-1998. Our success depends substantially on the approval of our most advanced product candidate, NGX-1998, a topical liquid formulation of high concentration capsaicin, for use in certain neuropathic pain conditions. In order to obtain regulatory approval, we will need to demonstrate in Phase 3 clinical trials that NGX-1998 is safe and effective for use in each target indication. The FDA generally requires successful completion of at least two adequate and well-controlled Phase 3 clinical trials for each indication for which we seek regulatory approval. The successful outcome of Phase 3 clinical trials and the required capital expenditure for such trials will depend in part on our ability to successfully design, initiate and complete enrollment and conclude any such trials on a timely basis. We may not have adequate financial or other resources to pursue this product candidate for any indications through the clinical trial process. Additionally, such trials may not achieve positive results, and, even if the results are positive, may not adequately support approval by the FDA. If we fail to complete clinical trials for NGX-1998, or if such clinical trials fail to demonstrate with substantial evidence that NGX-1998 is both safe and effective, we will not be able to obtain regulatory approval to market the product candidate. To date, NGX-1998 has only been tested for efficacy in a single Phase 2 clinical trial in PHN patients. There can be no assurance that the results we obtained in such trial will be replicated in any subsequent trials or that the results obtained in the PHN population would be replicated in other neuropathic pain indications. Further, there can be no assurance that the clinical trial data for our approved Qutenza product will be relevant or provide any meaningful insight into the design of clinical trials for NGX-1998 or that we will be able to use the clinical trial data from Qutenza with respect to obtaining approval. 29 Table of Contents Our clinical trials may fail to demonstrate adequately the safety and efficacy of our product candidates, which could prevent or delay regulatory approval and commercialization. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of our product candidates, we must demonstrate through lengthy, complex and expensive preclinical testing and clinical trials that the product is both safe and effective for use in each target indication. Clinical trial results from the study of neuropathic pain are inherently difficult to predict. The primary measure of pain is subjective patient feedback, which can be influenced by factors outside of our control, and can vary widely from day to day for a particular patient, and from patient to patient and site to site within a clinical study. The results we have obtained in completed clinical trials may not be predictive of results from our ongoing or future trials. Additionally, our product candidate may fail to show efficacy in additional clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier studies. Some of our trial results have been negatively affected by factors that had not been fully anticipated prior to our examination of the trial results. For example, we have from time to time observed a significant “placebo effect” within our control groups—a phenomenon in which a sham treatment or, in the case of our studies, a low-dose capsaicin treatment that we believed would not be effective, results in a beneficial effect. Although we design our clinical study protocols to address known factors that may negatively affect our study results, there can be no assurance that our protocol designs will be adequate or that unknown factors will not have a negative effect on the results of our clinical trials, which could significantly disrupt our efforts to obtain regulatory approvals and commercialize our product candidates. In addition, clinical trials in new indications or in a larger patient population could reveal more frequent, more severe or additional side effects that were not seen or deemed unrelated in earlier studies, any of which could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials of our product candidates and could result in the FDA or other regulatory authorities stopping further development of or denying approval of our product candidates. Based on results at any stage of clinical trials, we may decide to repeat or redesign a trial or, modify our regulatory strategy, which would likely delay the date of potential regulatory approval, or even discontinue development of one or more of our product candidates. A number of companies in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after obtaining promising results in earlier trials. If our product candidates, including NGX-1998, are not shown to be both safe and effective in clinical trials, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our success depends on our ability to secure adequate funding to complete the development program for NGX-1998. Currently, we believe that we have sufficient cash reserves to fund operations into 2013. However, our current cash reserves are not be sufficient to fully fund Phase 3 development of NGX-1998, and as a result, we will need additional funding to complete the development of this product candidate and to fund operations generally. We are currently seeking to enter potential strategic partnerships related to both NGX-1998 and Qutenza to provide funding for continued development of NGX-1998, support of our commercialization operations with respect to Qutenza, potentially support commercialization for NGX-1998, if approved for marketing, and support funding of general operations. However, there can be no assurance that such a strategic partnership would be completed or on terms that are favorable to us. If we are unable to reach agreement with a potential strategic partner or if a strategic partnership does not provide adequate funding, we would need to obtain additional funding to complete the clinical development of NGX-1998. Raising additional equity capital may be difficult since our share price is near historical lows compared to its trading history, and due to our potential delisting from the NASDAQ Global Market, as a result of failure to meet certain minimum requirements. If we are unable to raise sufficient capital to fund our development programs and operations generally, we will be unable to proceed with the development of NGX-1998 and our business and financial condition will be significantly harmed. 30 Table of Contents Additionally, Astellas has an option pursuant to the Astellas Agreement to obtain an exclusive license to commercialize NGX-1998 in the Licensed Territory. There can be no assurance that any data and other information we provide to Astellas regarding development of NGX-1998 and its prospects for potential approval and commercialization will be sufficient for Astellas to elect to exercise such option. If Astellas decides not exercise its option with respect to NGX-1998, we will not receive funding for Phase 3 development of NGX-1998 under the Astellas Agreement, and, additionally, we will not be permitted to commercialize NGX-1998 in the Licensed Territory. A failure of Astellas to exercise its co-development and commercialization option with respect to NGX-1998 may delay or prevent us from obtaining funding for the continued development of NGX-1998 and the operation of our business will be significantly harmed. Raising additional funds by issuing securities, engaging in debt financings or through licensing arrangements may cause dilution to existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish proprietary rights. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities as we did in July 2011 and February 2012, our existing stockholders’ ownership will be diluted. Royalty monetization structures may require us to give up or assign certain rights to certain current and future assets. Any debt financing we enter into may involve covenants that restrict our operations or our ability to enter into other funding arrangements. These restrictive covenants may include limitations on additional borrowing and specific restrictions on the use of our assets, as well as prohibitions on our ability to create liens, pay dividends, redeem our stock or make investments. In addition, if we raise additional funds through licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish potentially valuable rights to our potential products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. Failure to meet our loan obligations with Hercules could adversely affect our financial condition. Under the terms of our agreement with Hercules, we are subject to certain negative covenants and events of default. If we were to default under Hercules Agreement, we would be obligated to pay to Hercules the amount we borrowed under such agreement together with any unpaid interest, a 5% interest penalty on any past due amount, and the end of loan charge of $0.6 million. If we were required to pay the amounts due in the event of default under the Hercules Agreement, we would be required to raise additional capital and there can be no assurances that we would be able to do so. Failure to meet our loan obligations with Cowen could adversely affect our financial condition. Under the terms of our Financing Agreement with Cowen, we are subject to certain negative covenants and events of default. Under the Financing Agreement, an event of default includes a covenant to maintain liquid assets equal to expected cash needs during the following three months. If we were to default under the Financing Agreement with Cowen we are obligated to immediately pay to Cowen the borrowed amount together with interest accrued thereon from the effective date of the Financing Agreement to the date of repayment at an internal rate of return equal to the lesser of the 19% rate of interest or the maximum rate permitted by law, less any payments received by Cowen. If we were required to pay the amounts due in the event of default under the Cowen Agreement, we would be required to raise additional capital and there can be no assurances that we would be able to do so. If we fail to meet the requirements for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market and do not meet initial listing requirements to transfer to the NASDAQ Capital Market, our common stock could be delisted from trading, which would adversely affect the liquidity of our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Global Market and to maintain our listing, we must meet certain financial requirements in accordance with the rules of Nasdaq. On October 18, 2011, we received a 31 Table of Contents notification from Nasdaq that we failed to maintain the required minimum market value of listed securities level of $50.0 million for a 30 consecutive business day period. We have until April 16, 2012 in which to cure this non-compliance by meeting or exceeded such requirement for a minimum of ten consecutive business days. On January 27, 2012, we received a notification from Nasdaq that we failed to maintain the required $1.00 minimum bid price for a 30 consecutive business day period. We have until July 28, 2012 in which to cure this non-compliance by meeting or exceeded such requirement for a minimum of ten consecutive business days. There can be no assurance that we will be able to cure these violations by the end of their respective cure periods, be able to transfer to the NASDAQ Capital Market or maintain our listing on either market in the future. Any potential delisting of our common stock would adversely affect the liquidity of our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital. If we do not raise additional capital, we may be forced to delay, reduce or eliminate our commercialization efforts or development programs. Our future capital requirements will depend on, and could increase significantly as a result of many factors, including: • the progress of our development programs including the number, size and scope of clinical trials and non-clinical development, including the initiation and conduct of Phase 3 clinical trials for NGX-1998; • our ability to meet our obligations under the loan agreement with Hercules and our Financing Agreement with Cowen; • the success of the commercialization of our products and the amount of revenue we generate; • the costs of maintaining sales and marketing infrastructure, distribution capabilities and other market support functions such as medical affairs and pharmacovigilance; • the conduct of manufacturing activities including the manufacture of commercial product supply and clinical product supply; • the costs of carrying out our obligations under our commercial arrangement with Astellas; • our ability to establish and maintain strategic collaborations, including licensing, distribution and other arrangements that we have or may establish; • our ability to meet our obligation under the Financing Agreement with Cowen including liquidity maintenance requirements; • the costs and timing of additional regulatory approvals; • the costs involved in enforcing or defending patent claims or other intellectual property rights; and • the extent to which we acquire or invest in other products, technologies and businesses. We intend to seek additional funding through strategic alliances and/or debt facilities or other financing vehicles which may include the public or private sales of our equity securities. There can be no assurance, however, that additional funding will be available on reasonable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to further delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our planned development, commercialization or expansion activities. Our success depends in part on our ability to cost-effectively maintain Qutenza® (capsaicin) 8% patch on the market in the United States. Our product Qutenza® (capsaicin) 8% patch, was approved by the FDA in November 2009 for the management of neuropathic pain associated with PHN. We initially launched Qutenza in April 2010 in the United States with our own commercial sales organization. Over the two years since launch, we invested 32 Table of Contents significant time and cash resources into commercialization of Qutenza. In March 2012, we concluded that we could no longer invest significant resources in Qutenza. As a result, we ceased direct promotion of Qutenza by eliminating our sales force and by reducing our expenses in support of commercial operations. Despite our cost control efforts with respect to Qutenza, the costs of maintaining availability of Qutenza in the market could be greater, and the revenues deriving from sales of Qutenza could be less, than we currently anticipate. Further, there are certain ongoing activities that are required for maintaining a pharmaceutical product in the market, such as maintaining a safety database. If the costs of maintaining Qutenza in the market are significantly greater than we expect, or the revenues significantly lower, our business could be seriously harmed and our ability to continue development of NGX-1998 would be adversely affected. Qutenza and our product candidates may never achieve market acceptance. The commercial success of Qutenza or any other product candidates we develop including NGX-1998, if approved, will depend on, among other things, acceptance by healthcare professionals, patients and payers. Market acceptance of, and demand for any products that we develop and commercialize will depend on many factors, including: • with respect to Qutenza, healthcare professionals and patients willingness and ability to accommodate the time necessary for each Qutenza treatment; • our ability to fund the size and scope of sales and marketing activities necessary to support a product such as Qutenza; • the effectiveness of our sales and marketing strategies; • the ability to obtain adequate pricing and sufficient insurance and other third party payer coverage and reimbursement; • patient acceptance of the treatment procedure, efficacy or safety of Qutenza; • availability, relative cost and relative efficacy and safety of alternative and competing treatments; • the effectiveness of our or our collaborators’ sales, marketing and distribution strategy; • publicity concerning our products or competing products and treatments; • potential product recalls; and • post marketing approval pharmacovigilance or other studies showing safety issues not seen in previous studies. If Qutenza, or our product candidates if approved, fail to gain market acceptance, we may be unable to earn sufficient revenue to continue our business. We outsource the manufacturing of Qutenza and our other product candidates and accordingly depend on other parties for our manufacturing operations. If these manufacturers fail to meet our requirements and strict regulatory requirements, Qutenza commercialization efforts and further product development efforts may be negatively affected. We currently depend on four contract manufacturers as single source suppliers for the components of Qutenza: an intermediate material used in the synthesis of capsaicin, synthetic capsaicin, the dermal delivery system and the associated cleansing gel. We have entered into long-term commercial supply agreements for these components. In addition we have entered into a long-term agreement for the assembly of the Qutenza treatment kits in the United States. If relationships with any of these manufacturers is terminated, or if any manufacturer is unable to produce required quantities on a timely basis or at all, our operations would be negatively impacted and our business harmed. 33 Table of Contents We are currently in the process of identifying potential manufacturers for NGX-1998. Potential suppliers of NGX-1998 will need to meet technical and regulatory requirements related to safety manufacturing of the liquid formulation of capsaicin, filling the liquid formulation into its finished applicator and manufacturing of the applicator itself. The high concentration capsaicin such as that used in NGX-1998 is difficult to safely manufacture. If we are unable to identify one or more suitable suppliers in a timely manner, if those suppliers are unable to meet our technical or regulatory requirements then our development program may be delayed and the planned costs of the development program may increase significantly. Any products we or our contract manufacturers manufacture or distribute under FDA approvals are subject to pervasive and continuing regulation by the FDA, including record-keeping requirements and reporting of adverse experiences with the products. Drug manufacturers and their subcontractors are required to register with the FDA and, where appropriate, state agencies, and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and state agencies for compliance with cGMP, regulations which impose procedural and documentation requirements upon us and each third party manufacturer we utilize. This ongoing regulation and evaluation results in an obligation on us to continually evaluate the manufacturing process, the applicability of our analytical methods and the specifications that are used to release product for sale and evaluate long term stability of our product to ensure they continue to meet their objective of ensuring that such processes and methods enable the consistent manufacture of product that meets regulatory approved specifications. This process often results in identification of matters that can result in changes to specifications, analytical methods and manufacturing processes as part of normal and ongoing process improvement. This process can also identify matters that can have significant implications including the potential for reduction in applicable product shelf life, suspension of product commercialization, or requirement of product recalls, all of which would have a material adverse effect on us. We are undertaking such ongoing process improvement processes with our contract manufacturers and we cannot assure you that the outcome of such initiatives will not have a material effect on our business. Reliance on contract manufacturers exposes us to additional risks, including: • failure of current and future manufacturers to comply with strictly-enforced regulatory requirements; • failure to manufacture products that meet our specifications throughout their shelf lives; • failure to deliver sufficient quantities in a timely manner; • the possibility that we may terminate a contract manufacturer and need to engage a replacement; • the possibility that current and future manufacturers may not be able to manufacture our product candidates and products without infringing the intellectual property rights of others; • the possibility that current and future manufacturers may not have adequate intellectual property rights to provide for exclusivity and prevent competition; and • insufficiency of intellectual property rights to any improvements in the manufacturing processes or new manufacturing processes for our products. Any of these factors could result in insufficient supply of Qutenza to meet demand which would have a significant impact on our financial results and adversely impact any revenues we may derive from Qutenza. With respect to our product candidates, such factors could result in significant delay or suspension of clinical trials, regulatory submissions, or receipt of required approvals, all of which could significantly harm our business. Because our third party manufacturers operate outside of the United States, and many of the raw materials and the labor that are used to manufacture Qutenza and our product candidates are based in foreign countries, we may experience currency exchange rate risks, even though, in some instances our contracts are denominated in U.S. dollars. We do not currently engage in forward contracts to hedge this currency risk and as a result, may suffer adverse financial consequences as a result of this currency risk. 34 Table of Contents Materials used by these entities to manufacture our product candidates originate outside the United States, including certain materials which may be sourced from China and India. The FDA has increased its diligence with regard to foreign-sourced materials and manufacturing processes. Increased FDA scrutiny of foreign manufacturers could result in delays in product availability, which could have a negative impact on our business. Furthermore, because we are currently required to supply Qutenza to Astellas under the Supply Agreement, the foregoing risks to us related to supply of Qutenza and its components could also harm Astellas’ ability to commercialize Qutenza in the Licensed Territory. Whether we supply Qutenza to Astellas or Astellas enters into direct supply arrangements with our suppliers, Astellas’ ability to generate revenue and in turn our ability to generate royalty and sales-milestone revenue, would be impacted by these foregoing risks relating to manufacturing. Our success will depend, in part, on the successful efforts of our collaboration partner in the European Union, certain countries in Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa. The success of sales of Qutenza in the Licensed Territory will be dependent on Astellas’ ability to successfully launch and commercialize Qutenza pursuant to the Astellas Agreement. The manner in which Qutenza is being launched, including the timing of launch in each country of the European Union and the pricing that has or will be established in each such country, will have a significant impact on the ultimate success of Qutenza in the European Union, and ultimately the success of the overall commercial arrangement with Astellas. If commercial launch of Qutenza throughout the remainder of the Licensed Territory is delayed or prevented, our revenues will suffer and our stock price will decline. Further, if sales of Qutenza are less than anticipated, our stock price will decline. The outcome of Astellas’ commercialization efforts could also have an effect on investors’ perception of potential sales of Qutenza in the United States, which could cause a decline in our stock price if such efforts are unsuccessful. The Astellas Agreement provides for Astellas to be responsible for conducting certain studies for Qutenza in the European Union, both to satisfy post-marketing commitments that were made in conjunction with the Qutenza MA in the European Union and to carry out in support of Astellas’ commercialization plans for Qutenza in the Licensed Territory. Astellas has now commenced three studies in this regard. The planning and execution of these studies is primarily the responsibility of Astellas, and may not be carried out in accordance with our indicated preferences, or may yield results that are detrimental to Astellas’ sales of Qutenza in the Licensed Territory or detrimental in our efforts to develop or commercialize Qutenza outside the Licensed Territory, including in the United States. Together with Astellas, we have attempted to design such studies with a view toward having the resulting data be supportive of regulatory and commercial efforts in both the European Union and the United States, such as potential label expansion studies that may be carried out with respect to use of Qutenza to treat pain associated with PDN. However, such studies may have limited or no utility to support such efforts and may negatively impact our revenues. Within the Licensed Territory, regulatory approval for Qutenza has been obtained within the European Economic Area, Switzerland and Georgia. Other regulatory jurisdictions in the Licensed Territory may require further clinical and manufacturing activities to gain approval for sales of Qutenza in these countries. There can be no assurance that these activities will be successful and that approval in these countries will be obtained in a timely manner, if at all. Further, there can be no assurance that such clinical or manufacturing activities will not negatively impact the regulatory processes in the European Economic Area, United States or other markets where regulatory approval of Qutenza may have been obtained or may be in the process of being sought. The Astellas Agreement requires us to expend resources in support of our commercial relationship with Astellas. Although we believe that our contractual arrangement with Astellas provides for reimbursement for many of these activities, the time and financial costs of managing such a relationship can be significant and may occur at a time when we are executing the commercialization of Qutenza in the United States. 35 Table of Contents The Supply Agreement we entered into in connection with the Astellas Agreement requires us to supply components of Qutenza to Astellas at the same cost we obtain such components from our third-party manufacturers. Because we have never overseen commercial manufacturing processes and quantities of these components, we may incur non-reimbursable costs related to manufacturing scale up, quality assurance and release, which could negatively impact our financial results. Such Supply Agreement also provides for Astellas to enter into direct supply relationships with our current suppliers to replace the need for us to provide Astellas with pass-through supply of Qutenza components. There can be no assurance that the establishment of such separate supply relationships will not negatively impact our ability to obtain our own supply of Qutenza components in support of our commercialization of Qutenza in the United States or other markets outside the Licensed Territory that we seek to commercialize. The Astellas Agreement grants to Astellas an option to exclusively license our second generation product, NGX-1998. In connection with this option, we are required to execute a development plan for NGX-1998 and achieve certain objectives. After completion of an initial set of objectives, Astellas may make an additional payment to us to retain its option to license NGX-1998 until further agreed upon development of NGX-1998 has been performed by us. Upon completion of these objectives, Astellas may elect to make a final payment to us in order to exercise its option. If Astellas determines not to make one of these payments, the option to license NGX-1998 will expire, Astellas will not be required to provide further funding for NGX-1998, and we would be precluded from marketing NGX-1998 in the Licensed Territory. If Astellas fails to exercise its options with respect to NGX-1998, we may not have adequate funding for development of NGX-1998, we will be unable to generate revenues from potential sales of NGX-1998 in the Licensed Territory, and our business will be harmed. Further, Astellas may be less inclined to exercise its co-development and commercialization option for NGX-1998 if commercial sales of Qutenza do not meet Astellas’ expectations. Astellas’ commercialization of Qutenza in the Licensed Territory may result in lower levels of income to us than if we marketed Qutenza in the Licensed Territory on our own. Astellas may not fulfill its obligations or commercialize Qutenza as quickly as we would like. We could also become involved in disputes with Astellas, which could lead to delays in or termination of the Astellas Agreement and time-consuming and expensive litigation or arbitration. If Astellas terminates or breaches its agreement with us, or otherwise fails to complete its obligations in a timely manner, the chances of successfully developing or commercializing Qutenza in the Licensed Territory would be materially and adversely affected. Qutenza will be subject to ongoing regulatory requirements and may face regulatory or enforcement action. Any product candidate for which regulatory approval is obtained is subject to significant review and ongoing and changing regulation by the FDA, the EMA, and other worldwide regulatory agencies. These ongoing regulatory requirements may include, but are not limited to: • obtaining additional post-approval clinical study data; • regulatory review of advertising, promotional and education activities for the product; • establishment and monitoring of pharmacovigilance programs and annual reports; and • periodic regulatory agency inspections and reviews of third-party manufacturing facilities and processes. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements may subject us or our collaboration partner to administrative and judicially-imposed sanctions. These may include warning letters, adverse publicity, civil and criminal penalties, injunctions, product seizures or detention, product recalls, total or partial suspension of production, and refusal to approve pending product marketing applications. Even if regulatory approval to market a particular product candidate is obtained, the approval could be conditioned on conducting additional costly post-approval studies or could limit the indicated uses included in 36 Table of Contents such product’s labeling. For example, the Qutenza MA owned by Astellas in the European Union requires the conduct of certain post-authorization follow up measurers including ongoing evaluations of safety of Qutenza’s use in the labeled indications, as well as clinical evaluation in patients with PDN. These studies, which are funded by Astellas pursuant to the Astellas Agreement, may prove difficult and expensive to complete and their results may identify safety, efficacy or other issues related to Qutenza’s use that could hinder or prevent commercialization efforts. Moreover, the product may later be found in the course of these studies or through our pharmacovigilance programs to cause adverse effects that limit its use, force us or our partner to withdraw it from the market or impede or delay the ability to obtain regulatory approvals in additional countries. We are subject to various statutes and regulations pertaining to the marketing of our products. We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including inducing, facilitating or encouraging submission of false claims to government programs and prohibitions on the offer of payment or acceptance of kickbacks or other remuneration for the purchase of Qutenza. Specifically, these anti-kickback laws make it illegal for a prescription drug manufacturer to solicit, offer, or pay any remuneration in exchange for purchasing, leasing or ordering any service or items including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program. Because of the sweeping language of the federal anti-kickback statute, many potentially beneficial business arrangements would be prohibited if the statute were strictly applied. To avoid this outcome, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has published regulations – known as “safe harbors” – that identify exceptions or exemptions to the statute’s prohibitions. Arrangements that do not fit within the safe harbors are not automatically deemed to be illegal, but must be evaluated on a case-by-case basis for compliance with the statute. We seek to comply with anti-kickback statutes and if possible to fit within one of the defined “safe harbors”; we are unaware of any violations of these laws. However, due to the breadth of the statutory provisions and the absence of uniform guidance in the form of regulations or court decisions, there can be no assurance that our practices will not be challenged under anti-kickback or similar laws. Violations of such restrictions may be punishable by significant civil or criminal sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion from U.S. federal healthcare programs (including Medicaid and Medicare). Any such violations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Several recently enacted state and federal laws in Massachusetts and Vermont, and the Federal Physician Payment Sunshine Act, now require, among other things extensive tracking and maintenance of data bases regarding disclosure of relationships and payments to physicians and healthcare providers. These laws require us to implement the necessary and costly infrastructure to track and report certainpayments to healthcare providers. Failure to comply with these new tracking and reporting laws could subject us to significant civil monetary penalties. In addition, the FDA has the authority to regulate the claims we make in marketing our prescription drug products to ensure that such claims are true, not misleading, supported by scientific evidence and consistent with the labeled use of the drug. Failure to comply with FDA requirements in this regard could result in, among other things, warning letters, suspensions of approvals, seizures or recalls of products, injunctions against a product’s manufacturer, distribution, sales and marketing, operating restrictions, civil penalties and criminal prosecutions. Any of these FDA actions could negatively impact our product sales and profitability. Delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing could result in increased costs to us and delay our ability to generate additional revenues. We do not know whether clinical trials will begin on time or be completed on schedule, if at all. The commencement and completion of clinical trials can be disrupted for a variety of reasons, including difficulties in: • recruiting and enrolling patients to participate in a clinical trial; 37 Table of Contents • obtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial; • reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective clinical research organizations and trial sites; • manufacturing sufficient quantities of a product candidate; and • obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site. A clinical trial may also be suspended or terminated by us, the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including: • failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or in accordance with our clinical protocols; • inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial site by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold; • unforeseen safety issues; or • inadequate patient enrollment or lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial. In addition, changes in regulatory requirements and guidance may occur and we may need to amend clinical trial protocols to reflect these changes, which could impact the cost, timing or successful completion of a clinical trial. If we experience delays in the commencement or completion of our clinical trials, the commercial prospects for our product candidates will be harmed, and our ability to generate product revenues will be delayed. Many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also lead to the denial of regulatory approval of a product candidate. Finally, our discussions with potential or actual development and commercialization partners for NGX-1998 could result in significant delays in our planned timing of clinical trial initiation and may significantly change other elements of our current development plan. Any of these changes could result in delays, increased cost and changes to the potential probability of a successful outcome of our development program, any of which could negatively impact our business. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials. If these third parties do not perform as contractually required or otherwise expected, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates. We do not currently conduct clinical trials on our own, and instead rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories, to assist us with our clinical trials. We are also required to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their duties to us or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines, if the third parties need to be replaced, or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our preclinical development activities or clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates. We face potential product liability exposure, and if successful claims are brought against us, we may incur substantial liability and may have to limit our commercialization efforts for Qutenza or our development efforts with respect to our product candidates. The use of our product candidates in clinical trials and the sale of Qutenza expose us to the risk of product liability claims. Product liability claims might be brought against us by consumers, health care providers, 38 Table of Contents pharmaceutical companies or others selling our products. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against these claims, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for our product candidates; • impairment of our business reputation; • costs of related litigation; • substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; • loss of revenues; • the inability to commercialize our product candidates; and • withdrawal of clinical trial participants. Although we currently have product liability insurance coverage with limits that we believe are customary and adequate to provide us with coverage for foreseeable risks associated with our Qutenza commercialization and product candidate development efforts, our insurance coverage may not reimburse us or may be insufficient to reimburse us for the actual expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. Our products are expected to face substantial competition which may result in others discovering, developing or commercializing products before or more successfully than us or our collaborators. Qutenza competes, and NGX-1998 will compete, if approved for marketing, against more established products marketed by large pharmaceutical companies with far greater name recognition and resources than we or Astellas have. The most directly-competitive currently-marketed products in the United States are Lidoderm, an FDA-approved 5% lidocaine topical patch for the treatment of PHN marketed by Endo Pharmaceuticals, and Lyrica, an oral anti-convulsant, marketed by Pfizer for use in the treatment of PHN. In January 2011, Depomed Inc. received FDA approval for Gralise, a formulation of gabapentin that is a once daily tablet for the treatment of PHN. In addition to these branded drugs, the FDA has approved gabapentin (Neurontin) for use in the treatment of PHN. Gabapentin is marketed by Pfizer and multiple generic manufacturers, and is the most widely-prescribed drug in the United States for treatment of neuropathic pain. Pfizer has also received FDA approval for Lyrica for the treatment of PDN, fibromyalgia, epilepsy and general anxiety disorder. Additionally, a number of products that are approved for other diseases are used by physicians to treat PHN. Competition may become stronger and more direct and products in development, including products that we are unaware of, may compete with Qutenza. There are many other companies working to develop new drugs and other therapies to treat pain in general and neuropathic pain in particular, including Eli Lilly & Co, Pfizer, UCB Pharma SA, GlaxSmithKline plc, Merz, GW Pharmaceuticals, Novartis AG, Novo Nordisk A/S, Dainippon Pharmaceutical Co Ltd., AVANIR Pharmaceuticals, Xenoport, EpiCept, Newron Pharmaceuticals SpA, Pharmagesic Holding Inc., Arcion Therapeutics Inc., Endo Pharmaceuticals, AstraZeneca plc, Allergan, Inc., Bristol-Myers Squibb Co., Bio3 Research Srl, Relevare Pharmaceuticals Ltd., Depomed, Inc., and Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals. Many of the compounds in development by such companies are already marketed for other indications, such as anti-depressants, anti-convulsants or opioids. In addition, physicians employ other interventional procedures, such as nerve stimulation or nerve blocks, to treat patients with difficult to treat neuropathic pain conditions. Furthermore, new developments, including the development of other drug technologies and methods of preventing the incidence of disease, such as vaccines including Zostavax, occur in the biopharmaceutical industry at a rapid pace. Any of these developments may render our products or product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive. 39 Table of Contents Many of our potential competitors, either alone or together with their partners, have substantially greater financial resources, research and development programs, clinical trial and regulatory experience, expertise in prosecution of intellectual property rights, and manufacturing, distribution and sales and marketing capabilities than we and Astellas do. As a result of these factors, our competitors may: • initiate or withstand substantial price competition more successfully; • have greater success in recruiting skilled scientific workers from the limited pool of available talent; • more effectively negotiate third-party licenses and strategic alliances; • take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities more readily than we can; and • develop product candidates and market products that are less expensive, safer, more effective or involve more convenient treatment procedures than our current and future products. The life sciences industry is characterized by rapid technological change. If we fail to stay at the forefront of technological change our products may be unable to compete effectively. The efforts of government entities and third-party payers to contain or reduce the costs of health care may adversely affect our sales and limit the commercial success of our products. In certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of pharmaceutical products is subject to various forms of direct and indirect governmental control, including the control over the amount of reimbursement provided to the patient who is prescribed specific pharmaceutical products. In the United States, there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, various proposals to implement similar controls. For example, the health care reform act passed in March 2010, increased the rebate levels for pharmaceutical products sold to Medicaid patients by eight percent. The commercial success of our products could be limited if federal or state governments adopt any such proposals. In addition, in the United States and elsewhere, sales of pharmaceutical products depend in part on the availability of reimbursement to the consumer from third party payers, such as government and private insurance plans. These third-party payers are increasingly utilizing their significant purchasing power to challenge the prices charged for pharmaceutical products and seek to limit reimbursement levels offered to consumers for such products. We expect these third-party payers to focus their cost control efforts on our products, especially with respect to prices of and reimbursement levels for products prescribed outside their labeled indications. In these cases, their efforts may negatively impact our product sales and profitability. The Hatch-Waxman Act data exclusivity and any equivalent regulatory data exclusivity protection in other jurisdictions for Qutenza, may not prevent new competition which may negatively impact our financial results. The Hatch-Waxman Act provides five years of data exclusivity to the first applicant to gain approval of an NDA under Section 505(b) of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act for a new chemical entity. Qutenza has been recognized by the FDA as a new chemical entity and therefore has been granted five year data exclusivity under the Hatch-Waxman Act through November 2014. Hatch-Waxman provides data exclusivity by prohibiting abbreviated new drug applications, or ANDAs, and 505(b)(2) applications, which are marketing applications where the applicant does not own or have a legal right of reference to all the data required for approval, to be submitted by another company for another version of such drug during the exclusivity period. Protection under Hatch-Waxman will not prevent the filing or approval of a full NDA under Section 505(b)(1) for the same active ingredient, although the applicant would be required to conduct its own adequate and well-controlled clinical trials to demonstrate safety and effectiveness. Even though Qutenza has been granted five year Hatch-Waxman data exclusivity in the United States and ten-year market exclusivity which may be extended to eleven-year market exclusivity upon meeting certain criteria 40 Table of Contents and eight-year data exclusivity by the EMA, there can be no assurance that the exclusivity granted will effectively prevent competition, either generic or otherwise. Such competition could significantly harm our business. Additional clinical trials of Qutenza may not support label expansion for Qutenza for such indication, which would adversely impact our long-term success. We have not prepared for or conducted any Qutenza clinical trials for indications other than PHN, HIV-PN and PDN. Generally, two successful Phase 3 clinical trials are required to obtain regulatory approval in the U.S. We have conducted two Phase 3 clinical trials with Qutenza for patients with HIV-PN, one of which met its primary endpoint and one which did not meet its primary endpoint. Given that only one HIV-PN controlled study met its primary endpoint and that the pre-specified analysis plan in that study did not allow for examination of the proposed recommended dose, the FDA did not accept the data submitted as sufficient for approval of the HIV-PN indication under the sNDA we submitted with respect to such indication. We have also conducted one Phase 2 clinical trial that evaluated the use of Qutenza in patients with PDN. PDN represents a much larger market opportunity than either PHN or HIV-PN, and unless required clinical trials are successfully completed and regulatory approvals are obtained for the use of Qutenza for PDN patients, Qutenza will not be marketable for this indication in the United States and the European Union and possibly in other countries. If this occurs, our long-term ability to succeed may be significantly and negatively impacted. We believe that to market Qutenza in the United States for PDN, we may have to conduct two successful Phase 3 trials and we may be required to perform additional safety studies. In connection with the lower than expected sales of Qutenza for treatment of pain associated with PHN, we are currently not planning to pursue additional studies in PDN or HIV-PN. Although Astellas is pursuing clinical trials in PDN, there can be no assurance that the results of such trials would support label expansion of Qutenza in the European Union or support any efforts to seek label expansion in the United States. We depend on our key personnel. If we are not able to retain them, our business will suffer. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our management and commercial and scientific staff. The competition for skilled personnel among biopharmaceutical companies in the San Francisco Bay Area is intense and the employment services of our scientific, management and other executive officers are terminable at-will. We have encountered and may in the future experience turnover in our commercial organization. If we lose one or more of these key employees, our ability to implement and execute our business strategy successfully could be seriously harmed. Replacing key employees may be difficult and may take an extended period of time because of the limited number of individuals in our industry with the breadth of skills and experience required to develop, gain regulatory approval of and commercialize products successfully. We do not carry key man life insurance on any of our key personnel. We have incurred operating losses in each year since inception and expect to continue to incur substantial and increasing losses for the foreseeable future. We have incurred operating and net losses each year since our inception in 1998. Our net loss for the year ended December 31, 2011 was approximately $49.5 million and as of December 31, 2011 we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $306.1 million. We had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments totaling $34.3 million at December 31, 2011, and for the year ended December 31, 2011, we used cash of approximately $45.1 million in operating activities. We expect to continue to incur losses for several years, as we commercialize Qutenza and continue other research and development activities, including with respect to NGX-1998. If Qutenza or NGX-1998, if approved, do not achieve market acceptance in the United States or the European Union, we will not generate significant product related revenue. We cannot assure you that we will be profitable even if Qutenza is successfully commercialized or if NGX-1998 is successfully developed and commercialized. If we fail to achieve and maintain profitability, or if we are unable to fund our continuing losses, you could lose all or part of your investment. 41 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Intellectual Property The commercial success, if any, of Qutenza depends, in part, on the rights we have under certain patents. The commercial success of NGX-1998 depends in part on a granted patent in the United States and a pending patent application in the European Union. The issued patent in the United States is entitled “Methods and Compositions for Administration of TRPV1 Agonists.” The commercial success, if any, of Qutenza depends, in part, on a patent granted in the United States and device patents granted in Canada, Hong Kong and certain countries of Europe concerning the use of a dermal delivery system for prescription strength capsaicin delivery for the treatment of neuropathic pain. We exclusively license these patents from the University of California. We do not currently own, and do not have rights under this license to any issued patents that cover Qutenza outside Europe, Hong Kong, Canada and the United States. Although we have filed for an extension of the term for one of the patents licensed from the University of California, there can be no assurance that such extension will be granted. In addition to other patents and patent applications which have been licensed under our agreements with third party manufacturers, including the issued patents and pending applications licensed under our commercial supply agreement for Qutenza, we also license a method patent granted in the United States from the University of California concerning the delivery of prescription strength capsaicin for the treatment of neuropathic pain. Two of the three inventors named in the method patent did not assign their patent rights to the University of California. These two inventors asserted a claim of inventorship rights to the device patent. In late 2010, we entered into negotiations with these inventors to settle any and all claims and to have them assign their rights related to the method patent and any other related patent rights that may exist at the time we enter into a final binding settlement agreement. We anticipate that any settlement will include us making a cash payment and us issuing stock or stock options to them. The absence of exclusive rights to utilize such patent exposes us to a greater risk of direct competition and could materially harm our business. If we are unable to maintain and enforce our proprietary rights, we may not be able to compete effectively or operate profitably. Our commercial success will depend, in part, on obtaining and maintaining patent protection, trade secret protection and regulatory protection (such as Hatch-Waxman protection or orphan drug designation) of our proprietary technology and information as well as successfully defending against third-party challenges to our proprietary technology and information. We will be able to protect our proprietary technology and information from use by third parties only to the extent that valid and enforceable patents, trade secrets or regulatory protection cover them and we have exclusive rights to utilize them. Our commercial success will continue to depend in part on the patent rights we own, the patent rights we have licensed, the patent rights of our collaborators and suppliers and the patent rights we may obtain related to future products we may market. Our success also depends on our and our licensors’, collaborators’ and suppliers’ ability to maintain these patent rights against third-party challenges to their validity, scope or enforceability. Further, we do not fully control the patent prosecution of our licensed patent applications. There is a risk that our licensors will not devote the same resources or attention to the prosecution of the licensed patent applications as we would if we controlled the prosecution of the patent applications, and the resulting patent protection, if any, may not be as strong or comprehensive as if we had prosecuted the applications ourselves. The patent positions of biopharmaceutical companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in such companies’ patents has emerged to date in the United States. The patent situation outside the United States is even more uncertain. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States or other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property. 42 Table of Contents Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents or in third-party patents. For example: • we or our licensors might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications and issued patents; • we or our licensors might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • it is possible that none of our pending patent applications or the pending patent applications of our licensors will result in issued patents; • our issued patents and the issued patents of our licensors may not provide a basis for commercially viable products, or may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be challenged and invalidated by third parties; • we may not develop additional proprietary technologies or product candidates that are patentable; or • the patents of others may have an adverse effect on our business. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we seek to protect confidential information, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, contractors, or scientific and other advisors, they may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. If we were to enforce a claim that a third party had illegally obtained and was using our trade secrets, it would be expensive and time consuming, and the outcome would be unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. If we are not able to defend the patent or trade secret protection position of our technologies and product candidates, then we will not be able to exclude competitors from developing or marketing competing products, and we may not generate enough revenue from product sales to justify the cost of development of our product candidates and to achieve or maintain profitability. If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of other parties, such litigation will be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome would have a significant adverse effect on our business. Although we believe that we would have valid defenses to allegations that our current product candidates, production methods and other activities infringe the valid and enforceable intellectual property rights of any third parties of which we are aware, we cannot be certain that a third party will not challenge our position in the future. Other parties may own patent or other intellectual property rights that might be infringed by our products, trademarks or activities. There has been, and we believe that there will continue to be, significant litigation and demands for licenses in our industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Our competitors or other patent or intellectual property holders may assert that our products or trademarks and the methods we employ are covered by their intellectual property rights. For example, in 2009 we received a letter indicating a possible trademark conflict for Qutenza from a company claiming that our trademark was similar to theirs. While we believe that these assertions do not have merit and that we have defenses to them, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in defending our trademark. We intend to continue to use the Qutenza trademark and to vigorously defend our use of such trademark against such assertions. These parties could bring claims against us that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful against us, could cause us to pay substantial damages or possibly prevent us from commercializing our product candidates using the Qutenza trademark which would have a significant negative effect on the Qutenza launch and global commercialization efforts. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us, we could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing or sales of the product or product candidate that is the subject of the suit, or if a trademark infringement suit were brought against us or our collaboration partner Astellas, we or Astellas could be forced to cease using the name Qutenza in connection with our product. 43 Table of Contents As a result of intellectual property infringement claims, or in order to avoid potential claims, we may choose to seek, or be required to seek, a license from the third party and would most likely be required to pay license fees or royalties or both. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we were able to obtain a license, the rights may be non-exclusive, which would give our competitors access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product, or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations if, as a result of actual or threatened infringement claims, we or our collaborators are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. This could harm our business significantly. We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. The cost to us of any litigation or other proceedings relating to intellectual property rights, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our potential competitors, other patent or intellectual property holders may be better able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation because they have substantially greater resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue our operations. Should third parties file patent applications, or be issued patents claiming technology also claimed by us in pending applications, we may be required to participate in interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention which could result in substantial costs to us or an adverse decision as to the priority of our inventions. An unfavorable outcome in an interference proceeding could require us to cease using the technology or to license rights from prevailing third parties. There is no guarantee that any prevailing party would offer us a license or that we could acquire any license made available to us on commercially acceptable terms. If we fail to comply with our obligations in the agreements under which we license development or commercialization rights to products or technology from third parties, we could lose license rights that are important to our business. We are a party to a number of technology licenses that are important to our business and expect to enter into additional licenses in the future. For example, we hold licenses from The University of California and LTS under patents and patent applications relating to Qutenza. These licenses impose various commercialization, milestone payment, royalty, insurance and other obligations on us. If we fail to comply with these obligations, the licensor may have the right to terminate the license, in which event we would not be able to market products covered by the license, including Qutenza. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that our employees or we have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. Many of our employees were previously employed at universities or other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key research personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to commercialize certain potential products, which could severely harm our business. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. 44 Table of Contents Risks Related to an Investment in our Common Stock We expect that our stock price will fluctuate significantly, and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above your investment price. The stock market has experienced significant volatility, particularly with respect to pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other life sciences company stocks. The volatility of pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other life sciences company stocks often does not relate to the operating performance of the companies represented by the stock. Factors that could cause volatility in the market price of our common stock include, but are not limited to: • failure to meet market expectations with respect to the launch of Qutenza by us in the United States and by Astellas in the European Union; • inability of us and Astellas to successfully commercialize Qutenza in the United States and the Licensed Territory, respectively; • results from and any delays related to the clinical trials for NGX-1998; • our ability to develop and market new and enhanced product candidates on a timely basis; • failure to maintain our listing on the NASDAQ Global Market or NASDAQ Capital Market; • potential inability to preserve or raise sufficient capital to maintain our operations; • potential negative stock market reaction in the event we raise or attempt to raise additional equity capital; • failure to meet revenue estimates and revenue growth rates; • actual or anticipated quarterly variations in our results of operations or those of our collaborators or competitors; • third-party healthcare reimbursement policies or determinations; • product recalls, reported incidents of unanticipated adverse effects with respected to Qutenza, or other negative publicity related to Qutenza; • general economic conditions and slow or negative growth of our expected markets; • delay in entering, or termination of, strategic partnership relationships; • our ability to meet our obligation under the Financing Agreement with Cowen including liquidity maintenance requirements; • our ability to meet our obligation under the loan from Hercules; • failure or delays in entering additional product candidates into clinical trials; • announcements by us or our collaborators or competitors of new commercial products, clinical progress or the lack thereof, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments; • issuance of new or changed securities analysts’ reports or recommendations for our stock or the discontinuation of one or more securities analysts’ research coverage for our stock; • inclusion in or removal from stock indices such as the Russell 3000; • developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights; • commencement of, or our involvement in, litigation; • changes in governmental statutes or regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals; • market conditions in the life sciences sector; and • any major change in our board or management. 45 Table of Contents If we fail to meet the requirements for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market and do not meet initial listing requirements to transfer to the NASDAQ Capital Market, our common stock could be delisted from trading, which would adversely affect the liquidity of our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Global Market and to maintain our listing, we must meet certain financial requirements in accordance with the rules of Nasdaq. On October 18, 2011, we received a notification from Nasdaq that we failed to maintain the required minimum market value of listed securities level of $50.0 million for a 30 consecutive business day period. We have until April 16, 2012 in which to cure this non-compliance by meeting such requirement for a minimum of ten consecutive business days. On January 27, 2012, we received a notification from Nasdaq that we failed to maintain the required $1.00 minimum bid price for a 30 consecutive business day period. We have until July 28, 2012 in which to cure this non-compliance by meeting such requirement for a minimum of ten consecutive business days. There can be no assurance that we will be able to cure these violations by the end of their respective cure periods, be able to transfer to the NASDAQ Capital Market or maintain our listing on either market in the future. Any potential delisting of our common stock would adversely affect the liquidity of our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital. If the ownership of our common stock continues to be highly concentrated, it may prevent you and other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions and may result in conflicts of interest that could cause our stock price to decline. Our executive officers, directors and their affiliates and 5% stockholders beneficially own or control approximately 79% of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of February 29, 2012 (after giving effect to the exercise of all of their outstanding vested options and warrants exercisable within 60 days of such date). Accordingly, these executive officers, directors and their affiliates and significant stockholders acting as a group, will have substantial influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transactions. These stockholders may also delay or prevent a change of control of us, even if such a change of control would benefit our other stockholders. The significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock due to investors’ perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. Future sales of shares by existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decline. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by our existing stockholders of shares of common stock in the market, or the perception that these sales could occur. In particular, the significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock in the event that certain large stockholders elect to sell the shares of our common stock held by them. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate. We will continue to incur increased costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies, which could affect our operating results. As a public company, we will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, including costs associated with public company reporting requirements. We also have incurred and will incur costs associated with corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010, as well as new rules implemented by the SEC and the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC. We expect these rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. 46 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. These provisions include a classified board of directors, a prohibition on actions by written consent of our stockholders and the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us. Although we believe these provisions collectively provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. Events in the credit markets have, and will continue to, impact our investment returns. As a result of events in the credit markets, we maintain an investment portfolio of primarily U.S. Treasury securities. As a result of the credit crisis and our shift in investments, we anticipate that our investment returns will be below our historic rates of return. These lower returns will likely continue for some time and we cannot predict when market conditions will improve and when higher yielding investment options may be available to us. We have never paid dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have paid no cash dividends on any of our classes of capital stock to date, have contractual restrictions against paying cash dividends and currently intend to retain our future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be an investor’s sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved staff comments regarding any of our periodic or current reports. 