Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our publicly traded securities. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as competition, technological obsolescence, labor relations, general economic conditions, geopolitical events and international operations. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business, operations, financial condition and liquidity. Risks Relating to Our Business We face the following risks in connection with the general conditions and trends of the industries in which we operate. We may be unable to effectively introduce and market new products or may fail to keep pace with advances in technology. The healthcare industry is characterized by continuous technological change, resulting in changing customer preferences and requirements. The success of our business depends on our ability to introduce new products and adapt to these changing technologies and customer demands. The success of new product development depends on many factors, including our ability to anticipate and satisfy customer needs, obtain regulatory and reimbursement approvals on a timely basis, develop and manufacture products in a cost-effective and timely manner, maintain advantageous positions with respect to intellectual property and differentiate our products from those of our competitors. To compete successfully in the marketplace, we must make substantial investments in new product development whether internally or externally through licensing or acquisitions. Our failure to introduce new and innovative products in a timely manner would have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 2011 Form 10-K 8 Table of Contents Even if we are able to develop, manufacture and obtain regulatory and reimbursement approvals for our new products, the success of those products depends on market acceptance. Market acceptance for our new products could be affected by several factors, including: • the availability of alternative products from our competitors; • the price of our products; • the timing of our market entry; and • our ability to market and distribute our products effectively. Sales of our products are affected by the reimbursement practices of a small number of large public and private insurers. Sales of our products depend, in part, on the extent to which the costs of our products are reimbursed by governmental health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers and other third-party payors. Our potential customers’ ability to obtain appropriate reimbursement for products and services from these third-party payors affects the selection of products they purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. In addition, demand for new products may be limited unless we obtain reimbursement approval from governmental and private third-party payors prior to introduction. Reimbursement criteria vary by country, are becoming increasingly stringent and require management expertise and significant attention to obtain and maintain qualification for reimbursement. Major third-party payors for healthcare services both within and outside of the United States continue to work to contain costs through, among other things, the introduction of cost containment incentives and closer scrutiny of healthcare expenditures. In March 2010, significant reforms to the U.S. healthcare system were enacted as law. The law includes provisions that, among other things, reduce Medicare reimbursement. We cannot predict what additional healthcare initiatives, if any, will be implemented, or the effect any future legislation or regulation will have on us. However, the implementation of healthcare reforms both within and outside of the United States may further reduce the level at which reimbursement is provided and adversely affect demand for and profitability of our products. Legislative or administrative reforms to U.S. or non-U.S. reimbursement practices that significantly reduce or deny reimbursement for treatments using our products could adversely affect the acceptance of our products and the prices our customers are willing to pay and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The implementation of healthcare reform in the United States may adversely affect us. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act was enacted in the United States. This legislation includes a provision that imposes a 2.3% excise tax on the sale of certain medical devices by a manufacturer, producer or importer of such devices in the United States starting after December 31, 2012. The legislation also includes a $28 billion fee on the branded pharmaceutical industry over nine years starting in 2011 and a $2.8 billion annual fee on branded pharmaceuticals thereafter. The amount of branded pharmaceutical fee payable by each company is based upon market share. Since our branded pharmaceutical sales currently represent a small portion of the total market, this annual assessment has not had a significant impact on Covidien. The medical devices tax, however, may have a significant impact on our results of operations. While we are waiting for further regulations to be established, we continue to evaluate the potential impact that this tax may have on our overall business. U.S. net sales of potentially taxable medical devices represented approximately 30% to 40% of our total net sales in fiscal 2011 and, therefore, this tax burden may have a material, negative impact on our results of operations and our cash flows. In addition to the excise tax and annual fee described above, the new legislation contains numerous other provisions, many of which pertain to health insurance plans, which could adversely impact our financial results in future periods. 9 2011 Form 10-K Table of Contents Cost-containment efforts of our customers, purchasing groups, third-party payors and governmental organizations could adversely affect our sales and profitability. Many existing and potential customers for our products within the United States have become members of GPOs and IDNs, in an effort to reduce costs. GPOs and IDNs negotiate pricing arrangements with healthcare product manufacturers and distributors and offer the negotiated prices to affiliated hospitals and other members. GPOs and IDNs typically award contracts on a category-by-category basis through a competitive bidding process. Bids are generally solicited from multiple manufacturers with the intention of driving down pricing. Due to the highly competitive nature of the GPO and IDN contracting processes, we may not be able to obtain or maintain contract positions with major GPOs and IDNs across our product portfolio. Furthermore, the increasing leverage of organized buying groups may reduce market prices for our products, thereby reducing our profitability. While having a contract with a GPO or IDN for a given product category can facilitate sales to members of that GPO or IDN, such contract positions can offer no assurance that sales volumes of those products will be maintained. GPOs and IDNs increasingly are awarding contracts to multiple suppliers for the same product category. Even when we are the sole contracted supplier of a GPO or IDN for a certain product category, members of the GPO or IDN generally are free to purchase from other suppliers. Furthermore, GPO and IDN contracts typically are terminable without cause upon 60 to 90 days’ notice. Accordingly, although we have multiple contracts with many major GPOs and IDNs, the members of such groups may choose to purchase from our competitors due to the price or quality offered by such competitors, which could result in a decline in our sales and profitability. Distributors of our products also have begun to negotiate terms of sale more aggressively to increase their profitability. Failure to negotiate distribution arrangements having advantageous pricing and other terms of sale could cause us to lose market share and would adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Outside the United States, we have experienced pricing pressure from centralized governmental healthcare authorities and increased efforts by such authorities to lower healthcare costs. We frequently are required to engage in competitive bidding for the sale of our products to governmental purchasing agents. Our failure to offer acceptable prices to these customers could adversely affect our sales and profitability in these markets. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights or may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets and nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary intellectual property. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights may not be sufficient. We cannot assure you that our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents to us, that patents issued to or licensed by us in the past or in the future will not be challenged or circumvented by competitors or that these patents will be found to be valid or sufficiently broad to preclude our competitors from introducing technologies similar to those covered by our patents and patent applications. In addition, our ability to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights may be limited in certain countries outside the United States, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market position in such countries by utilizing technologies that are similar to those developed or licensed by us. Competitors also may harm our sales by designing products that mirror the capabilities of our products or technology without infringing our intellectual property rights. If we do not obtain sufficient protection for our intellectual property, or if we are unable to effectively enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitiveness could be impaired, which would limit our growth and future revenue. We operate in an industry characterized by extensive patent litigation. Patent litigation is costly to defend and can result in significant damage awards, including treble damages under certain circumstances, and injunctions that could prevent the manufacture and sale of affected products or force us to make significant 2011 Form 10-K 10 Table of Contents royalty payments in order to continue selling the affected products. At any given time, we are involved as either a plaintiff or a defendant in a number of patent infringement actions, the outcomes of which may not be known for prolonged periods of time. We can expect to face additional claims of patent infringement in the future. A successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We are subject to complex and costly regulation. Our products are subject to regulation by the FDA and other national, supranational, federal and state governmental authorities. It can be costly and time-consuming to obtain regulatory approvals to market a medical device or pharmaceutical product. Approvals might not be granted for new devices or drugs on a timely basis, if at all. Regulations are subject to change as a result of legislative, administrative or judicial action, which may further increase our costs or reduce sales. As an example, the FDA has proposed changes to the clearance process for medical devices that are substantially equivalent to other legally marketed devices, called the 510(k) process. If the changes to the 510(k) process are adopted as proposed, the time and cost to get many of our medical devices to market could increase significantly. Our failure to maintain approvals or obtain approval for new products could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We also rely on licenses from the DEA to purchase raw materials used in many of our pharmaceutical products and to manufacture and distribute such products. Our failure to maintain these licenses could adversely affect our pharmaceuticals business. In addition, we are subject to regulations covering manufacturing practices, product labeling and advertising and adverse-event reporting that apply after we have obtained approval to sell a product. Many of our facilities and procedures and those of our suppliers are subject to ongoing oversight, including periodic inspection by governmental authorities. Compliance with production, safety, quality control and quality assurance regulations is costly and time-consuming. Our manufacturing facilities and those of our suppliers could be subject to significant adverse regulatory actions in the future. These actions could include warning letters, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recalls, seizures of our products and criminal prosecution. Possible consequences of such actions could include: • substantial modifications to our business practices and operations; • a total or partial shutdown of production in one or more of our facilities while we remediate the alleged violation; • the inability to obtain future pre-market clearances or approvals; and • withdrawals or suspensions of current products from the market. Any of these events, in combination or individually, could disrupt our business and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The manufacture of our products is highly exacting and complex, and our business could suffer if we, or our suppliers, encounter manufacturing problems. The manufacture of our products is highly exacting and complex, due in part to strict regulatory requirements. Problems may arise during manufacturing for a variety of reasons including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, defective raw materials and environmental factors. If problems arise during the production of a batch of product, that entire batch of product may have to be discarded. These problems could lead to increased costs, lost revenue, damage to customer relationships, time and expense spent investigating the cause and, depending on the cause, similar losses with respect to other products. If problems are not discovered before the product is released to the market, we also could incur recall and product liability costs. Significant manufacturing problems could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 11 2011 Form 10-K Table of Contents Defects or failures associated with our products could lead to recalls or safety alerts and negative publicity. Manufacturing flaws, component failures, design defects, off-label uses or inadequate disclosure of product-related information could result in an unsafe condition or the injury or death of a patient. These problems could lead to a recall of, or issuance of a safety alert relating to, our products and result in significant costs and negative publicity. Due to the strong name recognition of our brands, an adverse event involving one of our products could result in reduced market acceptance and demand for all products within that brand, and could harm our reputation and our ability to market our products in the future. In some circumstances, adverse events arising from or associated with the design, manufacture or marketing of our products could result in the suspension or delay of regulatory reviews of our applications for new product approvals. We also may undertake a voluntary recall of products or temporarily shut down production lines based on performance relative to our own internal safety and quality monitoring and testing data. Any of the foregoing problems could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We may incur product liability losses and other litigation liability. In the ordinary course of business, we are subject to product liability claims and lawsuits, including potential class actions, alleging that our products have resulted in or could result in an unsafe condition or injury. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could be costly to defend and could result in an increase of our insurance premiums. Some claims brought against us might not be covered by our insurance policies. In addition, we have significant self-insured retention amounts which we would have to pay in full before obtaining any insurance proceeds to satisfy a judgment or settlement. Furthermore, even where the claim is covered by our insurance, our insurance coverage might be inadequate and we would have to pay the amount of any settlement or judgment that is in excess of our policy limits. We may not be able to obtain insurance on terms acceptable to us or at all since insurance varies in cost and can be difficult to obtain. Our failure to maintain adequate insurance coverage or successfully defend against product liability claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We are subject to antitrust claims and lawsuits in which competitors allege that we use our market position to exclude competitors from certain markets and to prevent customers from purchasing the competitors’ products. We also are subject to consumer antitrust class action lawsuits in which the putative class representatives, on behalf of themselves and other customers, seek to recover overcharges they allege that they paid for certain products. Any antitrust claim brought against us, with or without merit, could be costly to defend and could result in significant damages against us. An interruption in our ability to manufacture our products or an inability to obtain key components or raw materials may adversely affect our business. Many of our key products are manufactured at single locations, with limited alternate facilities. If an event occurs that results in damage to one or more of our facilities, we may be unable to manufacture the relevant products at previous levels or at all. In addition, for reasons of quality assurance or cost effectiveness, we purchase certain components and raw materials from sole suppliers. Due to the stringent regulations and requirements of the FDA and other similar non-U.S. regulatory agencies regarding the manufacture of our products, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources for certain components or materials. A reduction or interruption in manufacturing, or an inability to secure alternative sources of raw materials or components, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We may experience higher costs to produce our products as a result of changes in prices for oil, gas and other commodities. We use resins, other petroleum-based materials and pulp as raw materials in many of our products. Prices of oil and gas also significantly affect our costs for freight and utilities. Oil, gas and pulp prices are volatile and may 2011 Form 10-K 12 Table of Contents increase, resulting in higher costs to produce and distribute our products. Due to the highly competitive nature of the healthcare industry and the cost-containment efforts of our customers and third party payors, we may be unable to pass along cost increases through higher prices. If we are unable to fully recover these costs through price increases or offset these increases through cost reductions, we could experience lower margins and profitability and our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Divestitures of some of our businesses or product lines may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We continue to evaluate the performance of all of our businesses and may sell a business or product line. Any divestitures may result in significant write-offs, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Divestitures could involve additional risks, including difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, the disruption of our business and the potential loss of key employees. We may not be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that we encounter in divesting a business or product line. We may not be successful in our strategic acquisitions of, investments in or alliances with other companies and businesses, and acquisitions could require us to issue additional debt or equity. We may pursue acquisitions of complementary businesses, technology licensing arrangements and strategic alliances to expand our product offerings and geographic presence as part of our business strategy. We may not complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, and we may not realize the expected benefits of any acquisition, license arrangement or strategic alliance. Other companies may compete with us for these strategic opportunities. Even if we are successful in making an acquisition, the products and technologies that we acquire may not be successful or may require significantly greater resources and investments than we originally anticipated. We also could experience negative effects on our results of operations and financial condition from acquisition-related charges, amortization of intangible assets and asset impairment charges. These effects, individually or in the aggregate, could cause a deterioration of our credit rating and result in increased borrowing costs and interest expense. We could experience difficulties in integrating separated organizations, systems and facilities, and personnel with diverse backgrounds. Integration of an acquired business also may require management resources that otherwise would be available for development of our existing business. If an acquired business fails to operate as anticipated or cannot be successfully integrated with our existing business, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. In connection with acquisitions, we may incur or assume significant debt and unknown or contingent liabilities, such as environmental remediation expense, products liability, patent infringement claims or other unknown liabilities. Financing for acquisitions could decrease our ratio of earnings to fixed charges and adversely affect our borrowing capacity. Furthermore, acquisition financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms if and when required. If we were to undertake an acquisition by issuing equity securities, the acquisition could have a dilutive effect on the interests of the holders of our shares. We face significant competition and may not be able to compete effectively. We compete with many companies ranging from other multinationals to start-up companies. Competition takes many forms, including price reductions on products that are comparable to our own, development of new products that are more cost-effective or have superior performance than our current products, and the introduction of generic versions when our proprietary products lose their patent protection. Our current or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomic as a result of this competition. Our failure to compete effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 13 2011 Form 10-K Table of Contents We also face competition for marketing, distribution and collaborative development agreements, for establishing relationships with academic and research institutions, and for licenses to intellectual property. In addition, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations also may conduct research, seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for discovery, research, clinical development and marketing of products similar to ours. These companies and institutions compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel as well as in acquiring necessary product technologies. We are subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the United States. Our operations outside of the United States are subject to risks that are inherent in conducting business under non-U.S. laws, regulations and customs. Sales outside of the United States made up approximately 45% of our net sales in fiscal 2011 and we expect that non-U.S. sales will contribute significantly to future growth. The risks associated with our operations outside the United States include: • healthcare reform legislation; • changes in non-U.S. medical reimbursement policies and programs; • multiple non-U.S. regulatory requirements that are subject to change and that could restrict our ability to manufacture and sell our products; • possible failure to comply with anti-bribery laws such as the FCPA and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions; • different local product preferences and product requirements; • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing non-U.S. operations; • different labor regulations; • changes in environmental, health and safety laws; • potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws; • political instability and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; • economic instability and inflation, recession or interest rate fluctuations; and • minimal or diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries. These risks, individually or in aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results. We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Approximately 45% of our net sales for fiscal 2011 were derived from sales in non-U.S. markets, and we expect sales from non-U.S. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our net sales. Therefore, if the U.S. Dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of other countries where we sell our products, such as the Euro, our U.S. Dollar reported revenue and income will decrease. Changes in the relative values of currencies occur regularly and, in some instances, may have a significant effect on our operating results. Most of our customer relationships outside of the United States are with governmental entities and we could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions. The FCPA and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or 2011 Form 10-K 14 Table of Contents retaining business. Because of the predominance of government-sponsored healthcare systems around the world, most of our customer relationships outside of the United States are with governmental entities and are therefore subject to such anti-bribery laws. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and in certain circumstances strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Despite our training and compliance programs, our internal control policies and procedures may not always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. As noted in the Legal Proceedings discussion in Part I, Item 3 of this annual report, we and Tyco International have disclosed to the Department of Justice (DOJ) and SEC potential non-compliance with the FCPA, including by subsidiaries which are now a part of Covidien. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulations that could result in significant liability, require us to change our business practices and restrict our operations in the future. We are subject to various federal, state and local laws targeting fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry, including anti-kickback and false claims laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal or civil sanctions, including substantial fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid and health programs outside the United States. These laws and regulations are wide ranging and subject to changing interpretation and application, which could restrict our sales or marketing practices. Furthermore, since many of our customers rely on reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid and other governmental programs to cover a substantial portion of their expenditures, our exclusion from such programs as a result of a violation of these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, litigation and violations. We are subject to numerous federal, state, local and non-U.S. environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things: • the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials; • emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; • investigation and remediation of hazardous substances or materials at various sites; • chemical constituents in medical equipment and end-of-life disposal and take-back programs; and • the health and safety of our employees. We may not have been, or we may not at all times be, in compliance with environmental and health and safety laws. If we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. Environmental laws outside of the United States are becoming more stringent resulting in increased costs and compliance burdens. Certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous substances or materials at their properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. Liability for investigative, removal and remedial costs under certain federal and state laws are retroactive, strict and joint and several. In addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. We have received notification from the EPA and similar state environmental agencies that conditions at a number of formerly owned sites where we and others have disposed of hazardous substances require investigation, cleanup and other possible remedial action and may require that we reimburse the government for its costs incurred at these sites or otherwise pay for the costs of investigation and remediation and for natural resource damage claims from such sites. 15 2011 Form 10-K Table of Contents While we have budgeted for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with environmental laws, our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances may exceed our estimates or adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We may also be subject to additional environmental claims for personal injury or cleanup in the future based on our past, present or future business activities. Current or worsening economic conditions may adversely affect our business and financial condition. The global financial crisis has caused extreme disruption in the financial markets, including severely diminished credit availability and liquidity, affecting many of our customers. Customers may reduce spending during times of economic uncertainty, and it is possible that suppliers also may be adversely affected. Decreased consumer spending levels and increased pressure on prices for our products and services could result in decreased revenues and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, many customers, including many governments or entities that rely on government funding, may be unable to pay on a timely basis, or may pay at a significant discount, for our products that they do purchase. We have, for example, experienced significant delays in the collection of receivables from the national health care systems in certain countries including, but not limited to, certain regions in Spain, Italy and Portugal. Repayment of these receivables is dependent upon the financial stability of the economies of those countries. In light of the current Euro zone financial crisis, we continue to monitor the countries’ creditworthiness. Failure to receive payment of all or a significant portion of these receivables could materially adversely affect our results of operations. The volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets and adverse changes in the global economy may negatively impact our business and our ability to access financing. Although we intend to finance expansion and renovation projects with existing cash, cash flow from operations and borrowing under our existing commercial paper program or senior credit facility, we may require additional financing to support our continued growth. Uncertainties in the capital and credit markets, however, could limit our access to capital on terms acceptable to us or at all. General economic conditions could also result in severe downward pressure on the equity and credit markets, which could reduce the return available on invested corporate cash, reduce the return on investments under pension plans and thereby potentially increase funding obligations, all of which, if severe and sustained, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Risks Relating to Tax Matters Examination and audits by tax authorities, including the Internal Revenue Service, could result in additional tax payments. Our tax returns are subject to examination by various tax authorities, including the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS). The IRS has commenced its examination of our U.S. federal income tax returns. Open periods for examination also include certain periods during which we were a subsidiary of Tyco International. The resolution of the matters arising during periods in which we were a Tyco International subsidiary is subject to the conditions set forth in the Tax Sharing Agreement discussed below. Under the Tax Sharing Agreement, Tyco International has the right to administer, control and settle all U.S. income tax audits for periods prior to the separation. In connection with such examinations, tax authorities, including the IRS, have proposed tax adjustments. Tyco International has appealed certain of the proposed tax adjustments and it is our understanding that Tyco International intends to vigorously defend its previously filed tax returns. In the event that Tyco International is unable to resolve these issues in the IRS administrative process, Tyco International will likely contest the adjustments through litigation. The outcome of any such litigation is uncertain and could result in a significant 2011 Form 10-K 16 Table of Contents increase in our liability for taxes arising during these periods. While we believe that the amounts recorded as current and non-current taxes payable and guaranteed contingent tax liabilities related to these adjustments are adequate, the timing and outcome of such litigation is highly uncertain and could have a significant effect on our financial statements. We provide reserves for potential payments of tax to various tax authorities related to uncertain tax positions. It is our intention to vigorously defend our prior tax returns. However, the calculation of our tax liabilities involves the application of complex tax regulations to our global operations in many jurisdictions. Therefore, any dispute with any tax authority may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities associated with our returns from these periods. If payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be less than the recorded amounts, the reversal of the liabilities generally would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. If our estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the amount for which we are ultimately liable, we would incur additional charges to expense and such charges could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. We share responsibility for certain of our, Tyco International’s and TE Connectivity Ltd.’s (formerly Tyco Electronics Ltd.) income tax liabilities for tax periods prior to and including June 29, 2007. On June 29, 2007, we entered into a Tax Sharing Agreement with Tyco International and TE Connectivity pursuant to which we share responsibility for certain of our, Tyco International’s and TE Connectivity’s income tax liabilities based on a sharing formula for periods prior to and including June 29, 2007. More specifically, we, Tyco International and TE Connectivity share 42%, 27% and 31%, respectively, of U.S. income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to our, Tyco International’s and TE Connectivity’s U.S. income tax returns, certain income tax liabilities arising from adjustments made by tax authorities to intercompany transactions or similar adjustments, and certain taxes attributable to internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation. All costs and expenses associated with the management of these shared tax liabilities are being shared equally among the parties. Under the Tax Sharing Agreement, Tyco International has the right to administer, control and settle all U.S. income tax audits for periods prior to and including June 29, 2007. The timing, nature and amount of any settlement agreed to by Tyco International may not be in our best interests. The other parties to the Tax Sharing Agreement will be able to remove Tyco International as the controlling party only under limited circumstances, including a change of control or bankruptcy of Tyco International, or by a majority vote of the parties. We are responsible for all of our own taxes that are not shared pursuant to the Tax Sharing Agreement’s sharing formula. We are primarily liable for taxes owed by Tyco International subsidiaries that became Covidien subsidiaries after separation. Although we share certain of these tax liabilities with Tyco International and TE Connectivity pursuant to the Tax Sharing Agreement, if Tyco International and TE Connectivity default on their obligations to us under the Tax Sharing Agreement, we would be liable for the entire amount of these liabilities. If any party to the Tax Sharing Agreement were to default in its obligation to another party to pay its share of the distribution taxes that arise as a result of no party’s fault, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay, equally with any other non-defaulting party, the amounts in default. In addition, if another party to the Tax Sharing Agreement that is responsible for all or a portion of an income tax liability were to default in its payment of such liability to a taxing authority, we could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and be required to make additional tax payments. Accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed upon share of our, Tyco International’s and TE Connectivity’s tax liabilities. In September 2011, Tyco International announced its intention to spin-off two of its businesses to its shareholders, with Tyco International remaining as a publicly-traded company. Although these transactions are in preliminary stages, the completion of these transactions could adversely impact Tyco International’s ability to fulfill its obligations to us under the Tax Sharing Agreement. 17 2011 Form 10-K Table of Contents If the distribution of Covidien and TE Connectivity common shares by Tyco International to its shareholders or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation are determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. Tyco International has received private letter rulings from the IRS regarding the U.S. federal income tax consequences of the distribution of Covidien and TE Connectivity common shares by Tyco International to its shareholders, substantially to the effect that the distribution, except for cash received in lieu of a fractional share, of our shares and the TE Connectivity common shares, will qualify as tax-free under Sections 368(a)(1)(D) and 355 of the Code. The private letter rulings also provided that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation would qualify for favorable treatment under the Code. In addition to obtaining the private letter rulings, Tyco International obtained opinions from the law firm of McDermott Will & Emery LLP confirming the tax-free status of the distribution and certain internal transactions. The private letter rulings and the opinions relied on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations and undertakings, from us, TE Connectivity and Tyco International regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. Notwithstanding the private letter rulings and the opinions, the IRS could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated, or that the distributions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in stock or asset ownership after the distribution. If the distribution ultimately is determined to be taxable, Tyco International would recognize a gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of our shares and TE Connectivity common shares distributed to Tyco International shareholders on the distribution date over Tyco International’s tax basis in such common shares. Such gain, if recognized, generally would not be subject to U.S. federal income tax; however, we would incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities if it ultimately is determined that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation should be treated as taxable transactions. In addition, under the terms of the Tax Sharing Agreement, in the event the distribution or the internal transactions were determined to be taxable and such determination was the result of actions taken after the distribution by us, Tyco International or TE Connectivity, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed on us, Tyco International or TE Connectivity as a result thereof. If such determination is not the result of actions taken after the distribution by us, Tyco International or TE Connectivity, then we, Tyco International and TE Connectivity would be responsible for 42%, 27% and 31%, respectively, of any taxes imposed on us, Tyco International or TE Connectivity as a result of such determination. Such tax amounts could be significant. In the event that any party to the Tax Sharing Agreement defaults in its obligation to pay distribution taxes to another party that arise as a result of no party’s fault, each non-defaulting party would be responsible for an equal amount of the defaulting party’s obligation to make a payment to another party in respect of such other party’s taxes. Risks Relating to Our Jurisdiction of Incorporation Legislative action in the United States could materially and adversely affect us. Tax-Related Legislation Legislative action may be taken by the U.S. Congress which, if ultimately enacted, could limit the availability of tax benefits or deductions that we currently claim, override tax treaties upon which we rely, or otherwise affect the taxes that the United States imposes on our worldwide operations. Such changes could adversely affect our effective tax rate and/or require us to take further action, at potentially significant expense, to seek to preserve our effective tax rate. In addition, if proposals were enacted that had the effect of disregarding the Irish reorganization or limiting our ability as an Irish company to take advantage of tax treaties with the United States, we could incur additional tax expense and/or otherwise incur business detriment. 2011 Form 10-K 18 Table of Contents Legislation Relating to Governmental Contracts Various U.S. federal and state legislative proposals that would deny governmental contracts to U.S. companies that move their corporate location abroad may affect us. We are unable to predict the likelihood that, or final form in which, any such proposed legislation might become law, the nature of regulations that may be promulgated under any future legislative enactments, or the effect such enactments and increased regulatory scrutiny may have on our business. Irish law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. It may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the United States against us in Ireland based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws. In addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of Ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. We have been advised that the United States currently does not have a treaty with Ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any U.S. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on U.S. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in Ireland. As an Irish company, Covidien plc is governed by the Irish Companies Acts, which differ in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. Likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an Irish company generally are owed to the company only. Shareholders of Irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. Accordingly, holders of Covidien plc securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States. We may not be able to maintain a competitive worldwide effective corporate tax rate. While we believe that being incorporated in Ireland should help us maintain a competitive worldwide effective corporate tax rate, we cannot give any assurance as to what our effective tax rate will be because of, among other things, uncertainty regarding the tax policies of all the jurisdictions where we operate our business. Our actual effective tax rate may vary from our expectation and that variance may be material. Additionally, the tax laws of Ireland and other jurisdictions could change in the future, and such changes could cause a material change in our effective tax rate. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 