D. RISK FACTORS Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including risks related to our supply chain, sales channels, and business including availability of project financing, liquidity, operations, technology and intellectual property, our debt and equity securities and doing business in China. Although we believe that we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and trading price of our ADSs as well as our convertible notes. 4 Risks Related to Our Customers The increase in the global supply of solar cells and modules, and increasing competition, may cause substantial downward pressure on the prices of such products, resulting in lower revenues and earnings. Global solar cells and modules production materially increased in previous years, and is expected to continue to increase. Many competitors or potential competitors, particularly in China, continue to expand their production creating a potential oversupply of solar cells and modules in key markets. Increases in production and industry competition have resulted, and will continue to result, in downward pressure on the price of solar cells and modules, including our products. Such price reductions could continue to have a negative impact on our revenue and earnings. The reduction or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives or change in government policies may have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Demand for our products depends substantially on government incentives aimed to promote greater use of solar power. In many countries in which we are currently, or intend to become, active, the solar power markets, would not be commercially viable without government incentives. This is because the cost of generating electricity from solar power currently exceeds, and we believe will continue to exceed for the foreseeable future, the costs of generating electricity from conventional or non-solar renewable energy sources. The scope of the government incentives for solar power depends, to a large extent, on political and policy developments relating to environmental concerns in a given country, which could lead to a significant reduction in or a discontinuation of the support for renewable energies in such country. Federal, state and local governmental bodies in many of our key markets, most notably Germany, Italy, Spain, the United States, France, South Korea, Taiwan, India, Japan and China have provided subsidies and economic incentives in the form of rebates, tax credits and other incentives to end users, distributors, system integrators and manufacturers of solar power products to promote the use of solar energy in on-grid applications and to reduce dependency on other forms of energy. Policy shifts could reduce or eliminate these government economic incentives altogether. For example, the rapid rises of the German and Spanish markets were largely due to the government policies of those countries that set feed-in tariff terms at attractive rates. However, in September 2008, the Spanish government introduced a cap of 500 MW for the feed-in tariff in 2009, which has resulted in limiting demand in the grid-connected market in Spain. In 2009, the German government reduced solar feed-in tariffs by 9%. In January 2010, Germany proposed a further reduction in solar feed-in tariffs by up to 16% for rooftop systems and an estimated 15% for ground-based systems, which may result in a significant fall in the price of and demand for our products. We believe that in the time of uncertainty of political and policy developments, competition among solar manufacturers could become more fierce. Electric utility companies that have significant political lobbying powers may also seek changes in the relevant legislation in their markets that may adversely affect the development and commercial acceptance of solar energy. A significant reduction in the scope or discontinuation of government incentive programs, especially those in our target markets, could cause demand for our products and our revenues to decline, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The execution of our growth strategy is dependent upon the continued availability of financing to our customers as well as third-party financing arrangements for the end-user of our products, and is affected by general economic conditions. Given the general economy, particularly the tightening of the credit markets, we have extended credit to many new and existing customers or provided them with improved credit terms, including increasing credit limits and extending the time period before payments are due, ultimately increasing our exposure to credit risk on our account receivable. We recorded our provision for doubtful accounts of RMB nil in 2007, to RMB 24.7 million in 2008 and RMB 41.1 million in 2009. The failure of any of our new or existing customers to meet their payment obligations under the credit terms granted would materially and adversely affect our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. 5 Further, our products are a component of solar systems which are used in both on-grid applications and off-grid applications. Government agencies and the private sector have, from time to time, provided financing on preferential terms to promote the use of solar energy in both on-grid and off-grid applications. We believe that the availability and cost of such financing programs could have a significant effect on the level of sales of solar power products and the availability of financing on favorable terms, or at all, may be limited. If existing financing programs for on-grid and off-grid applications are eliminated or if financing in general become inaccessible or inadequate, the growth of the market for on-grid and off-grid applications may be materially and adversely affected, which could cause our sales of solar cells to decline. Due to the general reduction in available credit to would-be borrowers and the poor state of economies worldwide, customers may be unable or unwilling to finance the cost of our products, or the parties that have historically provided this financing may cease to do so, or only do so on terms that are substantially less favorable for us or our customers, any of which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and growth in all segments of our business. If economic recovery continues to be slow in the United States or elsewhere, we may experience decreases in the demand for our solar power products, which may harm our operating results. In addition, a rise in interest rates would likely increase the end users of our products cost of financing and could reduce their profits and expected returns on investment in our products. Similarly, the general reduction in available credit to would-be borrowers, the continued poor state of economies worldwide, and the condition of housing markets worldwide, could delay or reduce our sales of products to our customers. Collecting payment from customers facing liquidity challenges may also be difficult. We cannot assure you when a full economic recovery may occur, or even when an economic recovery does occur, that demand for our products and related services will increase. A protracted disruption in the ability of our significant customers or downstream players to access sources of liquidity could cause serious disruptions to or an overall deterioration in their businesses, which could lead to a significant reduction in their future orders for our products and the inability or failure on their part to meet their payment obligations to us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We currently sell a significant portion of our solar cell products to a limited number of customers. Our dependence on these customers may cause significant fluctuations or declines in our revenues. Even though we expect our customer base to increase and our revenue streams to further diversify among geographies including Europe and the United States, a substantial portion of our net revenues could continue to depend on sales to a limited number of China customers and the loss of sales to or inability to collect from these customers would have a significant negative impact on our business. We currently sell a substantial portion of our products to module manufacturers based in China. For the year ended December 31, 2009, approximately 55.5% of our total revenues, were derived from sales of our solar cell products to our top ten customers. We anticipate that our dependence on a limited number of customers will continue for the foreseeable future. Consequently, any one of the following events may cause material fluctuations or declines in our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations: · reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more of our significant customers; · selection of our competitor's products by one or more of our significant customers; · loss of one or more of our significant customers and our failure to identify additional or replacement customers; and · Failure of any of our significant customers to make timely payment for our products. 6 We are in the process of further penetrating the market in China and exploring opportunities in other markets. In light of our efforts to grow, we may face risks associated with the marketing, distribution and sale of our products domestically and internationally, and if we are unable to effectively manage these risks, they could impair our ability to expand our business overall. Our revenue from customers in China was approximately 76.3% and 73.8% of our overall revenues in 2008 and 2009, respectively. The stability and viability of any existing, new or potential markets are subject to many uncertainties and may expose us to a number of risks, including: · fluctuations in currency exchange rates; · difficulty in engaging and retaining distributors who are knowledgeable about, and can function effectively in, overseas markets; · increased costs associated with maintaining marketing efforts in various countries; · difficulty and cost relating to compliance with the different commercial and legal requirements of the overseas markets in which we offer our products; · inability to obtain, maintain or enforce intellectual property rights; and · trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and other restrictions and expenses, which could increase the prices of our products and make us less competitive in some countries. If we are unable to effectively manage these risks, we may not be able to successfully expand our business and grow our businesses as we have planned. We generally do not have long-term agreements with our customers and accordingly could lose customers without warning, which could cause our operating results to fluctuate. Our solar cell products are generally not sold pursuant to long-term agreements with customers, but instead are sold on a purchase order basis. Although we believe that cancellations on our purchase orders to date have been insignificant, our customers may cancel or reschedule purchase orders with us on relatively short notice. Cancellations or rescheduling of customer orders could result in the delay or loss of anticipated sales without allowing us sufficient time to reduce, or delay the incurrence of, our corresponding inventory and operating expenses. In addition, changes in forecasts or the timing of orders from these or other customers expose us to the risks of inventory shortages or excess inventory. These circumstances, in addition to variations in average selling prices, and the fact that our supply agreements are generally long-term in nature and many of our other operating costs are fixed, in turn could cause our operating results to fluctuate and may result in a material adverse effect in our business. We compete in a highly competitive market and many of our competitors have resources greater than ours. The solar power market is intensely competitive and rapidly evolving. We expect to face increased competition, which may result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share. Some of our competitors have become vertically integrated, from upstream silicon wafer manufacturing to solar power system integration. We expect to compete with future entrants to the photovoltaic market that offer new technological solutions. Furthermore, many of our competitors are developing or currently producing products based on new photovoltaic technologies, including thin film, ribbon, sheet and nano technologies, which they believe will ultimately cost the same as or less than crystalline silicon technologies used by us. In addition, the entire photovoltaic industry also faces competition from conventional and non-solar renewable energy technologies. Due to the relatively high manufacturing costs compared to most other energy sources, solar energy is generally not competitive without government incentive programs. 7 Many of our existing and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing and other resources than we do. Our competitors' greater size and longer operating history in some cases provide them with a competitive advantage with respect to manufacturing costs because of their economies of scale and their ability to purchase raw materials at lower prices. Many of our competitors also have greater brand name recognition, more established distribution networks and larger customer bases. In addition, many of our competitors have well-established relationships with our existing and potential customers and have extensive knowledge of our target markets. As a result, they may be able to devote greater resources to the research, development, promotion and sale of their products and respond more quickly to evolving industry standards and changes in market conditions than we can. Our failure to adapt to changing market conditions and to compete successfully with existing or new competitors may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Problems with product quality or product performance may cause us to incur warranty expenses, damage our market reputation and prevent us from achieving increased sales and market share, or result in a decrease in our revenues and market share. While we employ quality assurance procedures at key manufacturing stages to identify and resolve quality issues, our solar cells may contain defects that are not detected until after they are shipped or installed. These defects could cause us to incur significant re-engineering costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from product development efforts, lead to returns of, or requests to return our products and significantly affect our customer relations and business reputation. If we deliver solar cells with errors or defects, or if there is a perception that our solar cells contain errors or defects, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our solar power products could be harmed. In addition to our core business of producing solar cells, we also provide solar module assembly services to our customers. With respect to these solar modules, we provide either (i) a 2 or 5 year warranty that the modules will be free from defects in materials and workmanship from the production date, or (ii) a 10 and 25 year performance warranty against declines of more than 10.0% and 20.0% of initial power generation capacity from the time of delivery. As a result of these warranties, we bear the risk of extensive warranty claims long after we have sold our products and recognized revenue. We therefore, in accordance with our own history, industry data and industry practices, accrue 1% of our sales of solar modules as a warranty cost. Because we only recently started to provide our solar module assembly services, the solar modules have been in use for only a relatively short period, we cannot assure you that our assumptions regarding the durability and reliability of our products are reasonable. Our warranty provisions may be inadequate, and we may have to incur substantial expense to repair or replace defective products in the future. Furthermore, widespread product failures may damage our market reputation and cause our sales to decline. Risks Related to Our Supply Chain Prepayment arrangements for procurement of silicon wafers and/or polysilicon from Jinglong Group (a related party), GCL, Shunda and other suppliers expose us to the credit risks of such suppliers and may also significantly increase our costs and expenses, either of which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We face significant specific counterparty risk under long-term supply agreements when dealing with suppliers without a long, stable production and financial history. We make prepayments to these suppliers for procurement of polysilicon, ingots or wafers without receiving collateral to secure such payments. In the event any such supplier experiences financial difficulties, or even bankruptcy, it may be difficult or impossible, or may require substantial time and expense, for us to recover any or all of our prepayments. Our claims for such payments would rank as unsecured claims, which expose us to the credit risks of our suppliers in the case of an insolvency or bankruptcy of such suppliers. Under such circumstances, our claims against the suppliers would rank below those of secured creditors, which would undermine our chances of obtaining the return of the prepayments. Accordingly, a default by our suppliers may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. In addition, should a supplier to which we make prepayment default on its obligations under the supply contract, we may not be able to recover all or a portion of our outstanding prepayment. Further, even if a supplier refunds our prepayment when it defaults on its obligations under the contract, we may still suffer losses if we do not receive any interest payment on such refunded prepayment and, in the situation where we made prepayment in foreign currencies, we may suffer foreign exchange losses if we would need to exchange the U.S. dollar-denominated refund payment into Renminbi, which may have appreciated against the U.S. dollar. We also face certain operational risks associated with our suppliers. For example, if our suppliers become subject to intellectual property infringement claims by third parties our ability to recover our outstanding prepayments may be materially and adversely affected. Any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 8 Fluctuation in the price of polysilicon, increased competition, the global economic crisis and other changing market conditions may cause further decline in the demand and average selling prices of solar cells and may continue to increase the level of our earnings volatility and reduce our profitability. Fluctuation in the price of polysilicon and wafers may affect the average selling prices of solar cells since any significant increase in the polysilicon and wafer supply may decrease raw material costs, allow higher utilization of existing and planned solar cell production capacity, and allow greater price competition. In addition, increased competition from existing solar cell producers and new market participants as well as changes in other market conditions, such as the reduced demand for solar power products in the end user markets caused by the global economic crisis, may cause a decline in the demand and average selling prices of solar cells from time to time. If we are unable to lower our production cost per watt, to the same extent as the average selling price per watt declines, the level of our earnings volatility would increase and our profitability would decline, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have entered into long-term, firm commitment supply agreements, including prepayment provisions, that could result in excess or insufficient inventories and financial loss and place us at a competitive disadvantage. To match our estimated customer demand forecasts and growth strategy for the next several years, we have entered into multiple long-term supply agreements. We currently purchase polysilicon, ingots and wafers from a limited number of suppliers, including Jinglong Group and Jiangsu Zhongneng Silicon Technology Development Co., Ltd., a subsidiary of GCL Silicon Technology Holdings Ltd. ("GCL") and Shunda. See "Item 4. Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Raw Material and Utilities — Silicon Wafers." Some agreements provide for fixed pricing, substantial prepayment obligations, and/or firm purchase commitments that require us to pay for the supply whether or not we accept delivery. If such agreements require us to purchase more polysilicon, ingots or wafers than required to meet our actual customer demand, over time, the resulting excess inventory could materially and negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. If our agreements provide insufficient inventory to meet customer demand, or if our suppliers are unable or unwilling to provide us with the quantities within the contracted timetable, we may purchase additional supply at available market prices which could be greater than expected and could materially and negatively impact our results of operations. Such market prices could also be greater than prices paid by our competitors, placing us at a competitive disadvantage, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Further, any failure by us to meet obligations to our customers could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, retention of customers, market share, business and results of operations and may subject us to claims from our customers and other disputes. Any such failure may also cause our customers to switch to our competitors as alternative suppliers. Failure to obtain sufficient wafers may also result in underutilization of our existing and planned production facilities and increase our marginal production costs. Any of the above events could have a material adverse effect on our growth, results of operations and financial condition. 9 If the prices under our long-term supply agreements result in our paying more for such supplies than the current market prices available to our competitors, we may also be placed at a competitive disadvantage, and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial position if we are unable to renegotiate the prices with our suppliers. Furthermore, we may choose not to procure polysilicon, ingots or wafers under certain contracts if we deem the prices under such contracts are unfavorable to us under prevailing market conditions and/or we are unable to renegotiate the price of the polysilicon, ingots or wafers under the supply arrangements to better reflect the relevant market conditions. In the event we choose not to procure polysilicon, ingots or wafers under certain contracts, we have been and may be forced to forfeit certain prepayment amounts which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, and financial position. We obtain certain manufacturing equipment from sole or a limited number of suppliers and if such equipment is damaged or otherwise unavailable, our ability to deliver products on time will suffer, which in turn could result in order cancellations and loss of revenue. Some of our equipment used in the manufacture of our solar cell products has been developed and made specifically for us, is not readily available from alternative vendors and would be difficult to repair or replace if it were to become damaged or stop working. In addition, we obtain some equipment from sole or a limited number of suppliers. If any of these suppliers were to experience financial difficulties or go out of business, or if there were any damage to or a breakdown of our manufacturing equipment at a time when we are manufacturing commercial quantities of our products, our business would suffer. In addition, a supplier's failure to supply our ordered equipment in a timely manner, with adequate quality and on terms acceptable to us, could delay and otherwise disrupt our production schedule or increase our costs of production. Risks Related to Technology and Intellectual Property Our failure to further refine our technology and manufacturing processes and develop and introduce new solar power products could render our products uncompetitive or obsolete, and reduce our sales and market share. The solar power industry is rapidly evolving and becoming more competitive. We will need to invest significant financial resources in research and development to keep pace with technological advances in the solar power industry and to effectively compete in the future. However, research and development activities are inherently uncertain, and we might encounter practical difficulties in commercializing our research results. A variety of competing photovoltaic technologies that other companies may develop could prove to be more cost-effective and have better performance than solar power products that we develop. Therefore, our development efforts may be rendered obsolete by the technological advances of others. Breakthroughs in photovoltaic technologies that do not use crystalline silicon could mean that companies such as us that rely entirely on crystalline silicon would encounter a sudden, sharp drop in sales. Our failure to further refine our technology and develop and introduce new solar power products could render our products uncompetitive or obsolete, and result in a decline in our market share as well as our revenues and profits. One of the alternative technologies in the production of solar cells is thin film technology, which involves depositing several thin layers of silicon or more complex materials on a substrate such as glass to make a solar cell. The use of thin film technology in the production of solar cells would significantly reduce the consumption of silicon materials and manufacturing costs. Some universities, research institutions and companies in the solar power industry have devoted resources to the research and development on commercialization of thin film technology in the production of solar cells. New developments in commercialization of thin film technology may render our existing technologies obsolete and our products uncompetitive, which would result in loss in our profitability and market share and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any new development or adjustment in the manufacturing processes may affect our ability to maintain our competitive position. Any failure to refine our manufacturing processes to competitively produce new solar cell products may result in a loss of our market share and revenue, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 If we fail to successfully develop and introduce new and enhanced products and services, we may not be able to compete effectively, and our ability to generate revenues will suffer. The solar power market is characterized by continually changing technology requiring improved features, such as increased efficiency and higher power output and improved aesthetics. Technologies developed by our direct competitors, including thin film solar panels, concentrating solar cells, solar thermal electric and other solar technologies, may provide power at lower costs than our products. We also face competition in some markets from other power generation sources, including conventional fossil fuels, wind, biomass, and hydro. Our failure to further refine our technology and develop and introduce new solar power products could cause our products to become uncompetitive or obsolete, which could reduce our market share and cause our sales to decline. This will require us to continuously develop new solar power products and enhancements for existing solar power products to keep pace with evolving industry standards, competitive pricing and changing customer requirements. As we introduce new or enhanced products or integrate new technology into our products, we will face risks relating to such transitions including, among other things, technical challenges, disruption in customers' ordering patterns, insufficient supplies of new products to meet customers' demand, possible product and technology defects arising from the integration of new technology and a potentially different sales and support environment relating to any new technology. Our failure to manage the transition to newer products or the integration of newer technology into our products could adversely affect our business' operating results and financial condition. Our efforts to further develop our technology and know-how through increased research and development of crystalline silicon technology may not yield satisfactory results, if any. We may expend significant financial resources in research and development of crystalline silicon and commercialization of silicon ink technology to effectively compete with other market players in the future. Our research and development efforts are focused on improving conversion efficiencies and enhancing production processes to reduce silicon usage per watt. Research and development activities are inherently uncertain and we might encounter practical difficulties in commercializing our research results, if any. In addition, other companies may develop more cost-effective and better performing products than what our research and development may yield. Therefore, our development efforts may be rendered obsolete by the technological advances of others. For example, breakthroughs in photovoltaic technologies that do not use crystalline silicon could mean that companies such as us that currently rely on crystalline silicon would encounter a sudden, sharp drop in sales. Our failure to further improve our technology, develop and introduce new products or respond to rapid market changes and technology evolutions in the solar energy industry could render our products uncompetitive or obsolete, and reduce our sales and market share. If photovoltaic technology is not suitable for widespread adoption, or sufficient demand for solar power products does not develop or takes longer to develop than we anticipated, our sales may not continue to increase or may even decline, and we may be unable to sustain profitability. The solar power market is at a relatively early stage of development and the extent to which solar power products will be widely adopted is uncertain. Market data in the solar power industry are not as readily available as those in other more established industries where trends can be assessed more reliably from data gathered over a longer period of time. Many factors may affect the viability of widespread adoption of photovoltaic technology and demand for solar power products, including: · cost-effectiveness of solar power products compared to conventional and other non-solar energy sources and products; · performance and reliability of solar power products compared to conventional and other non-solar energy sources and products; · availability of government subsidies and incentives to support the development of the solar power industry; · success of other alternative energy generation technologies, such as fuel cells, wind power and biomass; 11 · fluctuations in economic and market conditions that affect the viability of conventional and non-solar alternative energy sources, such as increases or decreases in the prices of oil and other fossil fuels; and · capital expenditures by end users of solar power products, which tend to decrease when the economy slows down. The solar power market also competes with other sources of renewable energy and conventional power generation. If prices for conventional and other renewable energy resources decline, or if these resources enjoy greater policy support than solar power, the solar power market could suffer. If photovoltaic technology proves unsuitable for widespread adoption or if demand for solar power products fails to develop sufficiently, we may not be able to grow our business or generate sufficient revenues to sustain our profitability. In addition, demand for solar power products in our target markets may not develop or may develop to a lesser extent than we anticipated. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights may undermine our competitive position, and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights may be costly and may not be resolved in our favor. We seek to protect our proprietary manufacturing processes, documentation and other written materials primarily through intellectual property laws, contractual restrictions, trade secrets and other similar restrictions. However, we have sought patent protection from patent authorities in China and the United States for a limited number of technologies related to our business and may seek further protection in other jurisdictions if deemed necessary. We also require employees and consultants with access to our proprietary information to execute confidentiality agreements with us. The steps taken by us to protect our proprietary information may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology. In addition, our proprietary rights may not be adequately protected because: · people may not be deterred from misappropriating our technologies despite the existence of laws or contracts prohibiting it; · policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property may be difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and we may be unable to determine the extent of any unauthorized use; and · enforcement under intellectual property laws in China may be slow and difficult in light of the application of such laws and the uncertainties associated with the PRC legal system. See "Item 3. Key Information — D. Risk Factors — Risks related to Doing Business in China — Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could have a material adverse effect on us." Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technologies could enable third parties to benefit from our technologies without paying us for doing so. Any inability to adequately protect our proprietary rights could harm our ability to compete, to generate revenue and to grow our business. We cannot assure you that infringement of our intellectual property rights by other parties does not exist now or that it will not occur in the future. To protect our intellectual property rights and to maintain our competitive advantage, we may file suits against parties who we believe infringe our intellectual property. Such litigation may be costly and may divert management attention as well as expend our other resources away from our business. In certain situations, we may have to bring suit in foreign jurisdictions, in which case we are subject to additional risks as to the result of the proceedings and the amount of damage that we can recover. An adverse determination in any such litigation will impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects and reputation. In addition, we have no insurance coverage against litigation costs and would have to bear all costs arising from such litigation to the extent we are unable to recover them from other parties. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 12 We may be exposed to infringement or misappropriation claims by third parties, which, if determined adversely to us, could cause us to lose significant rights and pay significant damage awards. Our success also depends largely on our ability to use and develop our technology and know-how without infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. The validity and scope of claims relating to photovoltaic technology patents involve complex scientific, legal and factual questions and analysis and, therefore, may be highly uncertain. Although we are not currently aware of any parties pursuing or intending to pursue infringement claims against us, we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to such claims in the future. Also, because patent applications in many jurisdictions are kept confidential for 18 months before they are published, we may be unaware of other persons' pending patent applications that relate to our products or processes. Our suppliers may also become subject to infringement claims, which in turn could negatively impact our business as they may no longer be able to fulfill their delivery obligations under their contracts with us or refund our outstanding prepayments in a timely manner or at all. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, patent opposition proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in any such litigation or proceedings to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liability to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties, to pay ongoing royalties, or to redesign our products or subject us to injunctions prohibiting the manufacture and sale of our products or the use of our technologies. Protracted litigation could also result in our customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our products until resolution of such litigation. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Although a substantial portion of our solar cells are used in products sold outside China, we currently have very limited protection for our intellectual property outside China. Our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected if our sales outside China were to be restricted by intellectual property claims by third parties. We are in the process of obtaining patent protection for certain of our proprietary technologies in the United States and China and may also seek protection in various other jurisdictions, if deemed necessary. In the meantime, others may independently develop substantially equivalent technologies, or otherwise gain access to our proprietary technologies, and obtain patents for such intellectual properties in other jurisdictions, including the countries to which our solar cell products are sold ultimately. If any third parties are successful in obtaining patents for technologies that are substantially equivalent or the same as the technologies we use in our solar cell products in any of our markets before we do and enforce their intellectual property rights against us, our ability to sell products containing the allegedly infringing intellectual property in those markets will be materially and adversely affected. If we are required to stop selling such allegedly infringing products, seek license and pay royalties for the relevant intellectual properties, or redesign such products with non-infringing technologies, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Operations We may not be able to increase our growth rate, and we may not be able to manage our future growth effectively. We may not be able to expand our business or manage future growth. Depending on market conditions, our plans to grow our business will require the successful execution of: · expanding our existing manufacturing facilities, which would increase our fixed costs and, if such facilities are underutilized, would negatively impact our results of operations; · ensuring delivery of adequate polysilicon and ingots; · developing more efficient solar cells; · enhancing our customer resource management and manufacturing management systems; 13 · implementing and improving additional and existing administrative, financial and operations systems, procedures and controls, including the implementation of our new ERP system; · hiring additional employees; · expanding and upgrading our technological capabilities; · managing multiple relationships with our customers, suppliers and other third-parties; · maintaining adequate liquidity and financial resources; and · continuing to increase our revenues from operations. We have not had significant international activities and customers; however we plan to expand our international efforts, which subject us to additional business risks, including logistical complexity and political instability. We sell a substantial portion of our products to customers inside China, and we buy a substantial portion of our raw materials and equipment from vendors located inside China. In addition, all our solar cell production lines are located in China. Our continued focus on expanding our business internationally presents us with additional risks we face in conducting business internationally including: · multiple, conflicting and changing laws and regulations, export and import restrictions, employment laws, regulatory requirements and other government approvals, permits and licenses; · difficulties and costs in staffing and managing foreign operations as well as cultural differences; · potentially adverse tax consequences associated with our permanent establishment of operations in more countries; · relatively uncertain legal systems, including potentially limited protection for intellectual property rights, and laws, regulations and policies which impose additional restrictions on the ability of foreign companies to conduct business in certain countries or otherwise place them at a competitive disadvantage in relation to domestic companies; · inadequate local infrastructure and developing telecommunications infrastructures; · financial risks, such as longer sales and payment cycles and greater difficulty collecting accounts receivable; · currency fluctuations and government-fixed foreign exchange rates and the effects of currency hedging activity or inability to hedge currency fluctuations; and · political and economic instability, including wars, acts of terrorism, political unrest, boycotts, curtailments of trade and other business restrictions. If we are unable to successfully manage any such risks, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our quarterly revenues and operating results may be difficult to predict and could fall below investor expectations, which could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. Our quarterly revenues and operation results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly depending upon numerous factors, including seasonality of demand for solar power products, changes in market conditions and industry environment, and changes in government policies or regulations. For example, purchases of solar power products tend to decrease due to severe weather conditions in winter months, which complicates the installation of solar power systems. Many of these factors are beyond our control, making our quarterly results difficult to predict, which could cause the trading price of our ADSs to decline if our operating results for any particular quarter fall below investor expectations. 14 If we do not achieve satisfactory yields or quality in our production of solar cells, our sales could decrease and our relationships with our customers and our reputation may be harmed. The manufacture of solar cells is a highly complex process. Minor deviations in the manufacturing process can cause substantial decreases in yields, affect the quality of the product and in some cases, cause production to be suspended or yield products unfit for commercial sale. This often occurs during the production of new products or the installation and start-up of new process technologies or equipment. In addition, as is typical with any new equipment or process, we may experience lower yields and conversion efficiencies in our newly built manufacturing lines. We also expect to experience lower yields initially if we modify our manufacturing processes by utilizing thinner wafers. If we do not achieve satisfactory yields or quality, our product costs could increase, our sales could decrease and our relationships with our customers and our reputation could be harmed, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are a young company and our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and results of operations. We have only been in existence since May 2005. We completed our first solar cell manufacturing line in March 2006 and made our first commercial shipment of solar cells in April 2006. We have since then increased our total rated manufacturing capacity from 25 MW per annum to 800 MW per annum as of December 31, 2009. Our business model and ability to achieve satisfactory financial results at higher manufacturing volumes are unproven. We must, among other things, continue to respond to competitive developments, attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, implement and successfully execute our business plan and improve our technologies. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in achieving these goals. Our limited operating history makes the prediction of future results of operations difficult, and therefore, past revenue growth experienced by us should not be taken as indicative of the rate of revenue growth, if any, that can be expected in the future. We believe that period to period comparisons of our operating results are not meaningful and that the results for any period should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. You should consider our business and prospects, in light of the risks, uncertainties, expenses and challenges that we will face as an early-stage company seeking to develop and manufacture new products in a rapidly growing market. Our future success is dependent on our initiation, maintenance and expansion of relationships with new and existing customers, suppliers and other third parties, some of which may terminate for reasons beyond our control. Due to market conditions and other factors beyond our control, certain customer and/or supplier relationships that we entered into for expanding our customer/supplier base may be terminated or suspended. If we are unable to initiate relationships with new customers, suppliers or other third parties, maintain or expand relationships with existing customers, suppliers or other third parties, or resume or replace such relationships, our business, results of operations or financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Our future success depends in part on our ability to expand our business into downstream and upstream markets. Any failure to successfully implement this strategy could have a material adverse effect on our growth, business prospects and results of operations in future periods. Our current business strategy includes plans to expand into upstream and downstream markets, such as solar modules, which we believe are natural extensions of our vertically integrated business model. These expansion plans may include investments in upstream and downstream companies and joint ventures and formation of strategic alliances with third parties. We have already established a manufacturing and R&D centers in Donghai for wafer production and Fengxian for module production. However, our continued pursuit of these expansion plans may require significant capital expenditures going forward, which could be used in pursuit of other opportunities and investments. Our expansion downstream into solar module production could result in competition with existing customers. We may also face intense competition from companies with greater experience or established presence in the targeted downstream markets or competition from our industry peers with similar expansion plans. 15 Our senior management has worked together for a relatively short period of time, which may make it difficult for you to evaluate their effectiveness and ability to address challenges. Due to our limited operating history and recent changes to our management team, certain of our senior management and employees have worked together at our company for a relatively short period of time. For example, we have experienced turnover in our senior management ranks and hired or appointed a number of executive officers and senior management in 2009 and 2010, including our chief executive officer and chief technology officer. In light of the foregoing circumstances, it may be difficult for you to evaluate the effectiveness of our senior management and their ability to address future challenges to our business. Members of our senior management may not work together effectively as a team to manage our growth successfully, which may expose us to a higher risk of internal control deficiencies and result in us losing market share, business opportunity and revenues. The success of our business depends on the continuing efforts of our key personnel and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, train and retain qualified technical personnel, particularly those with expertise in the solar power industry. There is substantial competition for qualified technical personnel, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain our qualified technical personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified technical personnel, our business may be materially and adversely affected. We rely heavily on the continued services of our executive officers. If one or more of our executive officers are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily or at all. As a result, our business may be severely disrupted and we may incur additional expenses to recruit and retain new officers. In addition, if any of our executives joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose some or all of our customers. We believe our future success will depend upon our ability to retain these key employees and our ability to attract and retain other skilled managerial, engineering and sales and marketing personnel. Each of our executive officers and other key personnel has entered into an employment agreement with us, which contains confidentiality and non-competition provisions. However, if any disputes arise between our employees and us, we cannot assure you, in light of uncertainties associated with the PRC legal system, the extent to which any of these agreements could be enforced in China, where some of our executive officers reside and hold some of their assets. As we have awarded and will continue to award employee share options and other share-based compensation to certain of our directors, officers, employees and consultants, our net income will be adversely affected. Under our 2006 stock incentive plan, we may award stock options and other share-based compensations to purchase up to 10% of our issued share capital to certain of our directors, employees and consultants. As of April 20, 2010, we have awarded 3,852,000 shares of restricted stock and granted options to purchase 17,432,000 ordinary shares to a number of our directors, employees and consultants. See "Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees — B. Compensation — Stock Option Plans." In accordance with ASC 718, Compensation-Stock Compensation, which requires all companies to recognize, as an expense, the fair value of share options and other share-based compensation to employees, we are required to account for compensation costs for all restricted stocks and share options granted to our directors, employees and consultants using a fair-value based method and recognize expenses in our consolidated statement of operations in accordance with the relevant rules under U.S. GAAP. Our share-based compensation expenses have a material and adverse effect on our reported earnings for the year during which the share-base compensation are granted and over their vesting periods. 16 Moreover, the additional expenses associated with share-based compensation may reduce the attractiveness of such incentive plan to us. However, if we stop granting options, or reduce the number of options granted, under our stock incentive plan, we may not be able to attract and retain key personnel, as share options are an important employee recruitment and retention tool. In addition, the decline in the price of our ordinary shares below the exercise price of many of the previously granted options has lessened the effectiveness of the options as a means to retain the services of the option holders. As a result, we have granted more stock options to certain individuals and will continue to grant employee share options or other share-based compensation in the future that may adversely affect our net income. There are potential conflicts of interest between us and our largest shareholder, Jinglong BVI. Jinglong BVI, which is controlled by the shareholders of Jinglong Group, is our largest shareholder. In addition, Mr. Baofang Jin, the chairman of our Board of Directors, is a shareholder of Jinglong BVI and is also the chairman of Jinglong Group. Jinglong Group currently provides a number of products and services to us, including silicon wafer supply (on prepayment terms) and real property leases. Our transactions with Jinglong Group are governed by a number of contracts between Jinglong Group and us, the terms of which were negotiated at what we believe are on an arm's length basis. See "Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — B. Related Party Transactions." However, the interest of Jinglong BVI may conflict with our own interest with respect to our transactions with Jinglong Group. As a result, we may have limited ability to negotiate with Jinglong Group over the terms of the agreements because Jinglong BVI may exert significant influence on our affairs through our Board of Directors which could cause us to take actions that may not be in our best interests. In addition, Jinglong BVI may be able to prevent us from taking actions to enforce or exercise our rights under the agreements we entered into with Jinglong Group. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that our transactions with Jinglong Group will always be concluded on terms favorable to us or maintained at the current level or at all in the future. Changes to existing regulations over the utility sector and the solar power industry may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the purchase and use of solar power products, which may significantly reduce demand for our products. The market for power generation products is heavily influenced by government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry, as well as the internal policies of electric utilities companies. These regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing and technical interconnection of end user-owned power generation. In a number of countries, these regulations and policies are being modified and may continue to be modified. End users' purchases of alternative energy sources, including solar power products, could be deterred by these regulations and policies, which could result in a significant reduction in the potential demand for our solar power products. For example, utility companies commonly charge fees to larger, industrial customers for disconnecting from the electricity transmission grid or for having the capacity to use power from the electricity transmission grid for back-up purposes. These fees could increase end users' costs of using our solar power products and make products that use our solar cells less desirable, thereby having an adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We anticipate that products that use our solar cells and their installation will be subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with national and local ordinances relating to building codes, safety, environmental protection, utility interconnection and metering and related matters in various countries. It is also burdensome to track the requirements of individual localities and design equipment to comply with the varying standards. Any new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to products that use our solar cells may result in significant additional expenses to us and end users and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction in demand for our solar cells and the products that use our solar cells. 17 Compliance with environmental regulations can be expensive, and noncompliance with these regulations may result in adverse publicity and potentially significant monetary damages and fines. As we use, generate and discharge toxic, volatile and otherwise hazardous chemicals and wastes in our research and development and manufacturing activities, we are required by PRC law to obtain pollutant discharging permits and undergo government-administered safety examinations with respect to our production facilities. As of the date of this annual report, our pollutant discharging permits are pending renewal by PRC environmental regulatory agencies, which we expect to be completed after these agencies complete their inspection of our new manufacturing lines. So far, we have not been assessed any penalty for any non-compliance with PRC environmental laws and regulations. However, we may be required to pay fines, suspend production or cease operation. Any failure by us to control the use of or to adequately restrict the discharge of hazardous substances could subject us to potentially significant monetary damages and fines or suspensions in our business operations. We have limited insurance coverage and may incur significant losses resulting from operating hazards, product liability claims or business interruptions. As with other solar power product manufacturers, our operations involve the use, handling, generation, processing, storage, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials, which may result in fires, explosions, spills and other unexpected or dangerous accidents causing personal injuries or death, property damages, environmental damages and business interruptions. We do not currently carry any third-party liability insurance against claims relating to personal injury, property or environmental damage arising from accidents on our properties or relating to our operations. Any occurrence of these or other accidents in our operation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are also exposed to risks associated with product liability claims in the event that the use of the solar power products we sell results in injury. Although our solar cell products do not generate electricity without being incorporated into modules or other solar power devices, it is possible that users could be injured or killed by modules or other devices incorporating our solar cells, whether by product malfunctions, defects, improper installation or other causes. While we have not experienced any product liability claims brought against us, we are unable to predict whether such claims will be brought against us in the future or the effect of any resulting adverse publicity on our business. Moreover, we do not have any product liability insurance and may not have adequate resources to satisfy a judgment in the event of a successful claim against us. The successful assertion of product liability claims against us could result in potentially significant monetary damages and require us to make significant payments. In addition, the normal operation of our manufacturing facilities may be interrupted by accidents caused by operating hazards, power supply disruptions, equipment failures, as well as natural disasters. As the insurance industry in China is still in an early stage of development, business interruption insurance available in China offers limited coverage compared to that offered in many other countries, and we do not carry any business interruption insurance. Any business disruption or natural disaster could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, and our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. For strategic reasons and in an effort to maximize returns on our unused capital reserves, we may, from time to time, invest in securities purchased on the open market, which may, due to market forces beyond our control, result in the recognition of losses that will adversely affect our financial results. For both strategic reasons and in an effort to maximize the return on our unused capital reserves, we have, and may, from time to time invest in certain securities purchased on the open market. The fair value of these securities are driven by market forces beyond our control and may decline over time. To protect the value of our investment and minimize the recognition of losses, if any, we may, from time to time, dispose of such securities at the discretion of our Board of Directors. To the extent that we, in compliance with U.S. GAAP and other applicable rules and regulations, determine that a decline in the fair value of any of our securities is other-than-temporary, we are obligated to recognize such decline as a loss, which will in turn adversely affect our financial results. 18 See also "Item 3. Key Information — D. Risk Factors — Risks Related to Liquidity, the 2008 Convertible Note Offering and Our Relationship with the Lehman Entities." We may incur significant legal expenses in connection with, and allocate management time and attention to, legal actions involving us that may take place from time to time, including the legal actions currently filed against us, and it is possible that we will not be able to prevail in our legal actions. In December 2008, we learned that we were named as defendant in two putative securities class actions filed in the Unite States District Court for the Southern District of New York: Ellenburg v. JA Solar Holdings Co., Ltd., et al., Civil Action No. 08 CV 10475 (filed on December 3, 2008) and Zhang v. JA Solar Holdings Co., Ltd., et al., Civil Action No. 08 CV 11366 (filed on December 31, 2008). The complaints in the two actions, which are substantially identical, also name as defendants Mr. Huaijin Yang, our former chief executive officer, and Mr. Daniel Lui, our former chief financial officer and chief strategy officer, and allege that the defendants committed securities fraud in violation of Section 10(b) of the United States Securities and Exchange Act. On April 17, 2009, the court consolidated the two cases, appointed a lead plaintiff, and ordered the lead plaintiff to file a consolidated complaint. The lead plaintiff filed the consolidated complaint on June 1, 2009. We filed a motion to dismiss the consolidated complaint on July 15, 2009. In response, lead plaintiff filed a second amended complaint on August 21, 2009. We moved to dismiss the second amended complaint on October 8, 2009. The lead plaintiff filed a response to our motion to dismiss the second amended complaint on November 5, 2009, and we filed our reply on November 25, 2009. The court ordered an oral argument to be held on April 9, 2010 to hear arguments regarding our motion to dismiss. That oral argument was adjourned to April 20, 2010 and then to April 26, 2010, again at lead plaintiff’s request. On April 26, 2010, the oral arguments were heard and we are currently awaiting the ruling. Although we cannot predict the outcome of the litigation, we will defend ourselves vigorously in this litigation and do not believe any loss is probable and estimable. During these processes, and in other legal actions that may take place from time to time, we may incur significant legal expenses and allocate management time and attention to the legal actions. Despite our expense and efforts, however, no assurance can be provided that we will be able to prevail in our legal actions, or against the plaintiffs in the class action described above. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. Substantially all of our business operations are conducted in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: · the amount of government involvement; · the level of development; · the growth rate; · the control of foreign exchange; and · the allocation of resources. While the Chinese economy has grown significantly in the past years, the growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. 19 The Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the PRC government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the PRC government could materially and adversely affect our business. The PRC government also exercises significant control over Chinese economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Efforts by the PRC government to slow the pace of growth of the Chinese economy could result in decreased capital expenditure by solar energy users, which in turn could reduce demand for our products. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth and the level of renewable energy investments and expenditures in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our businesses. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could have a material adverse effect on us. We conduct substantially all of our business inside China through our various wholly-owned subsidiaries and are therefore subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China, including laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. Our operating subsidiaries in China are subject to legal limitations in paying dividends to us. The payment of dividends by entities organized in China is subject to limitations. Regulations in the PRC currently permit payment of dividends by our PRC subsidiaries only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in China. Our subsidiaries are also required to set aside at least 10.0% of their after-tax profits based on PRC accounting standards each year to their general reserves until the accumulative amount of such reserves reach 50.0% of their respective registered capital. In addition, at the discretion of their respective Board of Directors, our PRC subsidiaries may allocate a portion of their after-tax profits to their respective staff welfare and bonus funds, which may not be distributed to equity owners except in the event of liquidation. Further, if our PRC subsidiaries incur debt on their own behalves in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Limitations on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends, or otherwise fund and conduct our business. Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi versus that of other foreign currencies may have a material adverse effect on our business and on your investment. The change in value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar, Euro and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China's political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in an appreciation of the Renminbi from approximately RMB 8.2765 per US$1.00 as of July 21, 2005 to RMB 6.8259 per US$1.00 as of December 31, 2009. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. As a significant portion of our costs and expenses is denominated in Renminbi, potential future revaluation could further increase our costs. 20 In addition, any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ADSs in foreign currency terms. For example, to the extent that we need to convert Euros and U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operations, an appreciation of the Renminbi against the Euros and U.S. dollars would have an adverse effect on the Renminbi amount we receive from the conversion. We cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations and may incur net foreign currency losses in the future. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi may have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available for these purposes. From time to time, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts with commercial banks to hedge part of our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk for forecasted sales denominated in foreign currencies. As with all hedging instruments, there are risks associated with the use of foreign currency forward contracts. While the use of such foreign currency forward contracts provides us with protection from certain fluctuations in foreign currency exchange, we potentially forgo the benefits that might result from favorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange. Any default by the counterparties to these transactions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, these financial hedging transactions may not provide adequate protection against future foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and, consequently, such fluctuations could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, an appreciation in the value of the Renminbi against foreign currencies could make our solar cells more expensive for our international customers as well as reduce the competitiveness of our PRC customers in the international market, thus potentially leading to a reduction in our sales and profitability. Furthermore, many of our competitors are foreign companies that could benefit from such a currency fluctuation, making it more difficult for us to compete with these companies. We cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations and may continue to incur net foreign currency losses in the future. Although we intend to reduce the effect of exchange rate exposure through hedging arrangements, we cannot assure you that such hedging activities will be effective in managing our foreign exchange risk exposure. Continued fluctuations in exchange rates, particularly among the U.S. dollar, Euro and the Renminbi could result in foreign exchange losses and affect our gross and net profit margins. PRC regulations on currency exchange and foreign investment may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively and may delay or prevent us from using the proceeds from our fundraising activities to make loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiaries. Substantially all of our revenues and a significant portion of our expenses are denominated in Renminbi. If our revenues denominated in Renminbi increase or expenses denominated in Renminbi decrease in the future, we may need to convert a portion of our revenues into other currencies to meet our foreign currency obligations, including, among others, payment of dividends declared, if any, in respect of our ordinary shares. Under China's existing foreign exchange regulations, our PRC subsidiaries are able to pay dividends in foreign currencies, without prior approval from the State Administration of Foreign Exchange ("SAFE"), by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not take further measures in the future to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. 21 Foreign exchange transactions by our PRC subsidiaries under the capital account continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of PRC governmental authorities, including the SAFE. To utilize the proceeds of our initial public offering and our follow-on offering as an offshore holding company of our PRC operating subsidiaries, we may make loans to our PRC subsidiaries, or we may make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries. Any loans to our PRC subsidiaries are subject to PRC regulations. For example, loans by us to our subsidiaries in China, which are foreign-invested enterprises ("FIEs"), to finance their activities cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with the SAFE. We may also finance our subsidiaries by means of capital contributions. These capital contributions must be approved by the PRC Ministry of Commerce or its local counterparts ("MOFCOM"). We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future capital contributions by us to our subsidiaries. If we fail to receive such approvals, our ability to use the proceeds we have received from our initial public offering and our follow-on offering and to capitalize our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. Our business benefits from certain PRC government incentives. Expiration of, or changes to, these incentives could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Under the previous Income Tax Law of the People's Republic of China for Enterprises with Foreign Investment and Foreign Enterprises ("FEIT Law") and the related implementation rules which was repealed on 1 January 2008, Foreign Invested Enterprises ("FIEs") established in the PRC are generally subject to FEIT at a state tax rate of 30% plus a local tax rate of 3% on PRC taxable income. Our operating subsidiary, JA Hebei, was established as a FIE in the PRC and is thus subject to PRC enterprise income tax of 33%. The PRC government has provided certain incentives to FIEs in order to encourage foreign investments, including tax exemptions, tax reductions and other measures. Under the FEIT Law and the related implementation rules, FIEs are entitled to be exempted from FEIT for a 2-year period starting from their first profit-making year followed by a 50% reduction of FEIT payable for the subsequent three years, provided that they fall into the category of production-oriented enterprises with an operational period of more than 10 years in China, subject to approval from and modification by local taxation authorities. Specifically, with respect to income generated by assets acquired by JA Hebei during the fiscal years 2005 and 2006, JA Hebei will receive a two-year enterprise income tax exemption for 2006 and 2007, as well as a 50% enterprise income tax reduction for 2008, 2009 and 2010. With respect to income generated by assets newly acquired by JA Hebei during 2007, JA Hebei will receive a two-year enterprise income tax exemption for 2007 and 2008, as well as a 50% enterprise income tax reduction for 2009, 2010 and 2011, subject to the approval of the provincial tax authority. JA Hebei has obtained the approval of the relevant county-level and provincial-level tax authority in this regard, which, however, may be subject to PRC central government's further policies, decisions or rulings. In March 2007, the National People's Congress of China enacted a new Corporate Income Tax Law of the People’s Republic of China (or "CIT Law"), which became effective on January 1, 2008 and replaced the FEIT Law. The CIT Law imposes a unified income tax rate of 25% on all domestic enterprises and FIEs unless they qualify under certain limited exceptions. The CIT Law provides a transition period to FIEs, during which they are permitted to grandfather their existing preferential income tax treatment until such treatment expires in accordance with its current terms. In December 2007, the State Council promulgated the Notice on Implementation of Corporate Income Tax regarding Transition Period Preferential Treatment (the "Transition Period Implementation Rules"). In general, the CIT law does not affect the preferential tax treatment enjoyed by JA Hebei during the 5-year transition period. However, the CIT law and the Transition Period Implementation Rules did not clearly address the application of the transitional preferential policies to assets acquired through new capital injection made to a qualified entity after March 16, 2007, the date of enactment of the new CIT law. If future guidance is issued by the State Taxation of Administration to clarify this issue and it is determined that capital injection made after March 16, 2007 does not qualify for a separate "two plus three" tax holiday, the tax rate of JA Hebei as well as the income tax liability of JA Hebei could increase for 2008 and 2009. In addition, when our currently available tax benefits expire or otherwise become unavailable, the effective income tax rate of JA Hebei will increase significantly, and any increase of JA Hebei's income tax rate in the future could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 22 Dividends we receive from our operating subsidiaries located in the PRC may be subject to PRC withholding tax. The newly enacted CIT Law provides that a maximum income tax rate of 20% may be applicable to dividends payable to non-PRC investors that are "non-resident enterprises," to the extent such dividends are derived from sources within the PRC, and the State Council has reduced such rate to 10% through the implementation regulations. We are a Cayman Islands holding company and substantially all of our income may be derived from dividends we receive from our operating subsidiaries located in the PRC. Thus, dividends paid to us by our subsidiaries in China may be subject to the 10% income tax if we are considered as a "non-resident enterprise" under the CIT Law. If we are required under the CIT Law to pay income tax for any dividends we receive from our subsidiaries, it will materially and adversely affect the amount of dividends, if any, we may pay to our shareholders and ADS holders. We may be deemed a PRC resident enterprise under the CIT Law and be subject to the PRC taxation on our worldwide income. The CIT Law also provides that enterprises established outside of China whose "de facto management bodies" are located in China are considered "resident enterprises" and are generally subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate as to their worldwide income. Under the implementation regulations for the CIT Law issued by the PRC State Council, "de facto management body" is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and treasury, and acquisition and disposition of properties and other assets of an enterprise. If we are treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes, we will be subject to PRC tax on our worldwide income at the 25% uniform tax rate, which could have an impact on our effective tax rate and an adverse effect on our net income and results of operations, although dividends distributed from our PRC subsidiaries to us could be exempt from Chinese dividend withholding tax, since such income is exempted under the new CIT Law to a PRC resident recipient. Dividends payable by us to our foreign investors and gain on the sale of our ADSs or ordinary shares may become subject to taxes under PRC tax laws. Under the CIT Law and implementation regulations issued by the State Council, PRC income tax at the rate of 10% is applicable to dividends payable to investors that are "non-resident enterprises," which do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC, or which have such establishment or place of business but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business, to the extent such dividends have their sources within the PRC. Similarly, any gain realized on the transfer of ADSs or shares by such investors is also subject to 10% PRC income tax if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC. If we are considered a PRC "resident enterprise," it is unclear whether dividends we pay with respect to our ordinary shares or ADSs, or the gain you may realize from the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, would be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC and be subject to PRC tax. If we are required under the CIT Law to withhold PRC income tax on dividends payable to our non-PRC investors that are "non-resident enterprises," or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, the value of your investment in our ordinary shares or ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. New labor laws in the PRC may adversely affect our results of operations. On June 29, 2007, the PRC government promulgated a new labor law, namely, the Labor Contract Law of the PRC, or the New Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. The New Labor Contract Law imposes greater liabilities on employers and significantly increases the cost of an employer's decision to reduce its workforce. Furthermore, it requires certain terminations to be based upon duration of employment and not the merits of employees. In the event we decide to significantly change or decrease our workforce, the New Labor Contract Law could adversely affect our ability to enact such changes in a manner that is most advantageous to our business or in a timely and cost effective manner, thus materially and adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. 23 We face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of swine flu, avian flu, SARS or other epidemics or outbreaks. China reported a number of cases of SARS in April 2004. In 2006, 2007 and 2008, there have been reports on the occurrences of avian flu in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases and deaths. In April 2009, an outbreak of swine flu occurred in Mexico and the United States. In May 2009, the World Health Organization declared a level 6 flu pandemic, its highest pandemic alert phase, indicating a global pandemic underway. Any prolonged occurrence or recurrence of swine flu, avian flu, SARS or other adverse public health developments in China or any of the major markets in which we do business may have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. These could include our ability to travel or ship our products outside of China and to designated markets, as well as temporary closure of our manufacturing facilities, logistic facilities and/or our customers' facilities, leading to delayed or cancelled orders. Any severe travel or shipment restrictions and closures would disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future outbreak of swine flu, avian flu, SARS or any other epidemic. Recent PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident shareholders to personal liability and limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries' ability to distribute profits to us, or otherwise adversely affect us. In October 2005, the PRC SAFE issued a circular concerning foreign exchange regulations on investments by PRC residents in China through special purpose companies incorporated overseas (or "SPV"), or Circular No. 75, and the implementation procedures of such regulations have been further clarified by circular No. 106 issued by the Department of General Affairs of SAFE on May 29, 2007. Circular No. 75 states that, if PRC residents use assets or equity interests in their domestic entities as capital contribution to establish offshore companies or inject assets or equity interests of their PRC entities into offshore companies to raise capital overseas, such PRC residents must register with local SAFE branches with respect to their overseas investments in offshore companies and must also file amendments to their registrations if their offshore companies experience material events, such as changes in share capital, share transfer, mergers and acquisitions, spin-off transactions or use of assets in China to guarantee offshore obligations. Our shareholders who are PRC residents as determined by the relevant branch of SAFE have registered with the relevant branch of SAFE with respect to their investments in us and our acquisition of their interests in JA Hebei as currently required. However, we cannot provide any assurances that their existing registrations have fully complied with, and they will make necessary amendments to their registration to fully comply with, all applicable registrations or approvals required by these SAFE circulars. The failure or inability of our PRC resident shareholders to comply with the registration procedures set forth therein may subject these PRC resident shareholders to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our cross-border investment activities, or limit our PRC subsidiary' ability to distribute dividends to our company. As it is uncertain how SAFE will interpret or implement these circulars, we cannot predict how this circular and other SAFE circulars will affect our business operations or future strategies. For example, we may be subject to more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign currency-denominated borrowings, which may adversely affect our business and prospects. PRC rules on mergers and acquisitions may subject us to sanctions, fines and other penalties and affect our future business growth through acquisition of complementary business. On August 8, 2006, six PRC government and regulatory authorities, including the MOFCOM and the China Securities Regulatory Commission (or the "CSRC"), promulgated a rule entitled Interim Provisions on the Takeover of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors (or the "New M&A Rule"), which became effective on September 8, 2006. The New M&A Rule, among other things, requires that an offshore SPV, formed for the listing purpose through acquisition of PRC domestic entity and controlled by PRC residents should obtain approval from the CSRC prior to publicly listing its securities on an overseas stock market. Based on consultation with the International Department of the CSRC regarding its interpretation of the New M&A Rule, our PRC counsel, Tian Yuan Law Firm, advised us that the CSRC approval was not required for our initial public offering and the listing of our ADSs on The Nasdaq Global Market and follow-on offerings. However, we cannot assure you that the relevant PRC governmental agencies, including MOFCOM and other applicable departments of the CSRC, would reach the same conclusion as our PRC counsel. If the CSRC or other PRC regulatory body subsequently determines that the CSRC's approval was required for our initial and follow-on offerings and the listing of our ADSs on the Nasdaq Global Market, we may face sanctions by the CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies. In such event, these regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, delay or restrict the repatriation of the proceeds from our public offering into the PRC, or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our ADSs. 24 The New M&A Rule also established additional procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that MOFCOM be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise. In the future, we may grow our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses, although we do not have any plans to do so at this time. Complying with the requirements of the New M&A Rule to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from MOFCOM, may delay or inhibit the completion of such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. Failure to comply with PRC regulations regarding the registration requirements for employee stock ownership plans or share option plans may subject the PRC plan participants or us to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. In December 2006, the People's Bank of China promulgated the Administrative Measures for Individual Foreign Exchange, which set forth the respective requirements for foreign exchange transactions by PRC individuals under either the current account or the capital account. The Implementation Rules of the Administrative Measures for Individual Foreign Exchange, issued on January 5, 2007 by the SAFE, specify approval requirements for PRC citizens who are granted shares or share options by an overseas listed company according to its employee stock ownership plan or stock option plan. On March 28, 2007, the SAFE promulgated the Processing Guidance on Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plans or Stock Option Plans of Overseas-Listed Companies, or the Share Option Rule. According to the Share Option Rule, if a PRC citizen participates in any employee stock ownership plan or stock option plan of an overseas listed company, a qualified PRC domestic agent or the PRC subsidiaries of such overseas listed company shall, among other things, file, on behalf of such individual, an application with the SAFE to obtain approval for an annual allowance with respect to the purchase of foreign exchange in connection with the share purchase or share option exercise as PRC domestic individuals may not directly use overseas funds to purchase shares or exercise share options. Such PRC citizen's foreign exchange income received from the sale of shares or dividends distributed by the overseas listed company shall be fully remitted into a collective foreign currency account in the PRC opened and managed by the PRC subsidiaries of the overseas listed company or the PRC agent before distribution to such individual. If we or our PRC option holders fail to comply with these regulations, we or our PRC option holders may be subject to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. In addition, the State Administration of Taxation has issued certain circulars concerning employee share options. Under these circulars, our employees working in the PRC who exercise share options will be subject to PRC individual income tax. Our PRC subsidiaries have obligations to file documents related to employee share options with relevant tax authorities and to withhold individual income taxes of those employees who exercise their share options. If our employees fail to pay or we fail to withhold their income taxes according to relevant laws and regulations, we may face sanctions imposed by the tax authorities or other PRC government authorities. 25 Risks Related to Liquidity, the 2008 Convertible Notes Offering and Our Relationship with the Lehman Entities We have financed our operations primarily through equity contributions by our shareholders, our initial and follow-on public offerings, a convertible note offering, bank borrowings and cash flow from operations. However, we may require additional cash in the future and may not be able to secure such cash on favorable terms, if at all. Working capital and access to financing for purchase of silicon raw materials are critical to growing and sustaining our business. We have significant working capital commitments because suppliers of silicon wafers and polysilicon require us to make prepayments in advance of shipments. Although we believe that current cash and cash equivalents and anticipated cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs, including our cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures, for at least the next twelve months, we may, however, require additional cash to repay existing debt obligations or to re-finance our existing debts or due to changing business conditions or other future developments. If our existing cash is insufficient to meet our requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity securities, debt securities or borrow from lending institutions. The current global liquidity and credit crisis since the second half of 2008 has been having a significant negative impact on the financing abilities of businesses worldwide, including that of our company. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet such obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek additional equity or debt financing. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in the amounts we need or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. The sale of additional equity securities, including convertible debt securities, would dilute our shareholders. The incurrence of debt would result in increased interest rate risk, divert cash for working capital and capital expenditures to service debt obligations and could result in operating and financial covenants that restrict our operations and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders, if any. A shortage of such funds could in turn impose limitations on our ability to plan for, or react effectively to, changing market conditions or to expand through organic and acquisitive growth, thereby reducing our competitiveness. The significant amount and the structure of our offering of senior convertible notes in May 2008 could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We incurred a significant amount of debt and substantial debt service requirements as a result of the May 2008 offering ("2008 Offering") of the 4.5% senior convertible notes issue by us and maturing on May 15, 2013 (the "Senior Notes"). As of December 31, 2009, we had US$228.173 million of indebtedness outstanding. Our substantial indebtedness could have significant consequences on our future operations, including: · requiring us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, which would reduce our cash flow available for working capital, capital expenditures, development projects and other general corporate purposes; · limiting our flexibility in planning for or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industry in which we operate and the general economy; and · placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt or are less leveraged. Any of the above-listed factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to meet our payment and other obligations depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow in the future. This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors as well as other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us in amounts sufficient and on terms reasonable to us to support our liquidity needs. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, including our Senior Notes, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. 26 Our functional currency is different from the denomination of the Senior Notes and the company's early redemption option is contingent upon its ADS price. Therefore, in accordance with ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging, the company accounted for the conversion feature, early redemption option and conversion rate adjustment feature (together, "Embedded Derivatives") as a freestanding instrument separately in the balance sheet. The Senior Notes were recorded with a discount equal to the value of the Embedded Derivatives at the transaction date and will be accreted to the redemption value of the Senior Notes over the life of the Senior Notes. The change in fair value of the Embedded Derivatives and capped call options are recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Operations which may potentially increase the level of our earnings volatility. For additional information, see Note 14 of Notes to consolidated financial statements. We may incur additional indebtedness. If we do so, our increased debt service requirements may adversely affect our ability to meet our payment obligations on our currently outstanding Senior Notes and otherwise successfully grow and operate our business. Legal action against the Lehman Entities in connection with the Lehman Entities' insolvency proceedings could be expensive, time-consuming and ultimately unsuccessful. We currently have the following business relationships with the Lehman Entities around the world: 1.) an investment of US$ 100 million in note issued by Lehman Brothers Treasury Co. BV ("Lehman BV") (the "Lehman Note"(1)); 2.) an ADS lending agreement dated as of May 13, 2008 with Lehman Brothers International (Europe) ("LBIE"); and 3.) a capped call confirmation dated May 13, 2008 with Lehman Brothers OTC Derivatives Inc. ("Lehman OTC") (the "Capped Call"). All of the Lehman Entities are now undergoing insolvency proceedings in various countries. Therefore, even though the Lehman Note matured in October 2008, the insolvency proceedings prevented the payment of the Lehman Note and our attempts to collect the amounts due on the Lehman Note. In addition, we are in the process of seeking the return of the ADSs borrowed by LBIE under the ADS lending agreements. Furthermore, in light of the insolvency proceedings, the Lehman OTC's obligations under the Capped Call may not be enforced and, as a result, are currently under dispute. During this process, we may incur significant legal expenses and allocate management time and attention to the legal action. Despite our expense and efforts, however, no assurance can be provided that we will be able to recover any of the shares or monies-owed or be awarded any damages from the Lehman Entities. For additional information, see Note 14 of Notes to consolidated financial statements. (1) Lehman Note. We have an approximately US$100 million USD 3-Month Lehman Brothers Commodity Alpha Trading Strategies I Excess Return ("LCMNER") Index-Linked note, issued by Lehman BV and guaranteed by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (or "LBHI"). The Lehman Note is linked to an index of LCMNER. The maturity date of the Lehman Note was October 9, 2008, with 100% principal protection guaranteed by LBHI. The Lehman Note and the guarantee rank equally with all unsecured obligations of the issuer and guarantor. On September 19, 2008, the Amsterdam District Court granted Lehman BV a provisional suspension of payments and subsequently declared Lehman BV bankrupt on October 8, 2008. The Lehman Note was not repaid by Lehman BV and we have made a full impairment amounting to RMB 686 million against the Lehman Note. We have filed a claim with the administrators of Lehman BV for recovery of the US$100 million and are working with lawyers to monitor the status of the bankruptcy. Any portion of its investment that we are able to recover in the future will be recorded as other income. 27 Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares and ADSs The market price for our ADSs has been volatile. The market price for our ADSs has been and may continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. From the initial listing of our ADSs on the Nasdaq Global Market on February 7, 2007 to February 7, 2008, the closing prices of our ADSs have ranged from US$16.30 to US$75.43 per ADS. Then from the day after the date of our 3-for-1 ADS split (February 7, 2008) to the date of this annual report, the closing prices of our ADSs have ranged from US$1.8 to US$25.75 per ADS. The last reported trading price of our ADSs on April 20, 2010 was US$6.01 per ADS. The price of our ADSs may continue to fluctuate in response to factors including the following: · announcements of technological or competitive developments; · regulatory developments in our target markets affecting us, our customers, our potential customers or our competitors; · announcements regarding patent litigation or the issuance of patents to us or our competitors; · announcements of studies and reports relating to the conversion efficiencies of our products or those of our competitors; · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; · changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; · changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other photovoltaic technology companies; · addition or departure of our executive officers and key research personnel; · fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and RMB; · release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares or ADSs; · sales or perceived sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs; and · the outcome of the various legal actions we are taking against the Lehman Entities are uncertain. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. Our most current memorandum and articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could have a material adverse effect on the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Our most current memorandum and articles of association limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our Board of Directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix their designations, powers, preferences, privileges, and relative participating, optional or special rights and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares, in the form of ADS or otherwise. Preferred shares could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. If our Board of Directors decides to issue preferred shares, the price of our ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. 28 Holders of ADSs have fewer rights than shareholders and must act through the depositary to exercise those rights. Holders of ADSs do not have the same rights of our shareholders and may only exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under our most current memorandum and articles of association, the minimum notice period required to convene a general meeting will be ten days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders' meeting to permit you to withdraw your ordinary shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your ADSs. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ADSs are not voted as you requested. In addition, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to call a shareholder meeting. You may be subject to limitations on transfers of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. ADS holders' right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings and you may not receive cash dividends if it is impractical to make them available to you. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary bank will not make rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act, or exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. In addition, the depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute such property and you will not receive such distribution. 29 We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than that under U.S. law, you may have less protection for your shareholder rights than you would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our most current memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as that from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by our management, our Board of Directors or our controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a U.S. public company. You may have difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us. We are a Cayman Islands company and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. Substantially all of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands or the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. In addition, it is uncertain whether such Cayman Islands or PRC courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands or the PRC against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders. Based on the price of our ADSs, the value of our assets, and the composition of our income and assets, we do not believe that we were a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes for the taxable year ended December 31, 2009. Because the value of our assets for purposes of the PFIC test will generally be determined by reference to the market price of our ADSs or ordinary shares, fluctuations in the market price of the ADSs and ordinary shares may cause us to become a PFIC. While we do not expect to become a PFIC in the current or future taxable years, no assurance can be given because the determination of whether we are a PFIC is a factual determination made annually and because there are uncertainties in the application of the relevant rules. If we were to be classified as a PFIC in any taxable year, a U.S. Holder (as defined in "Taxation – Material U.S. Federal Tax Considerations") would be subject to special rules generally intended to reduce or eliminate any benefits from the deferral of United States federal income tax that a U.S. Holder could derive from investing in a non-United States corporation that does not distribute all of its earnings on a current basis. Further, if we are classified as a PFIC for any year during which a U.S. Holder holds our ADSs or ordinary shares, we generally will continue to be treated as a PFIC for all succeeding years during which such U.S. Holder holds our ADSs or ordinary shares. For more information see the section titled “Taxation – Material U.S. Federal Tax Considerations - PFIC Considerations”. ITEM 