D. RISK FACTORS Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including risks related to our business and industry, doing business in China and our ordinary shares and ADSs. Although we believe that we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and trading price of our ADSs as well as our convertible notes. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our business could be adversely affected if the economic and credit market conditions weaken or if there is a downturn in the global economy. The global financial crisis and economic downturn have adversely affected economies and businesses around the world, including in the PRC. Financial and credit markets worldwide experienced unprecedented deterioration in 2008 and early 2009. Due to the global economic downturn and a concurrent decrease in consumer demand, the PRC experienced a slowdown in its economic growth during the second half of 2008 and early 2009. Consumption in general were adversely affected during that downturn in the global economy. Although the PRC economy has recovered recently, it is uncertain whether such recovery will continue for the remainder of 2011 and beyond. Any recurrence of a global financial crisis may cause a further slowdown in the PRC economy. This change in macroeconomic conditions has had, and is expected to continue to have, an adverse impact on our business and operations. These factors may also lead to intensified competition for market share. Improvements in the economy and general business conditions will to a certain extent depend on the extent to which government policies succeed in addressing fundamental weaknesses in the markets, restoring consumer confidence and increasing market liquidity in an adequate and timely manner. Any recurring weakness in the global economy or in the economy of the PRC may materially and adversely affect our revenues. This financial and economic situation may have a negative impact on third parties with whom we do, or may do, business. Any of these factors may affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We may be adversely affected by volatile market and industry trends, in particular, the demand for our solar power products may decline, which may reduce our revenues and earnings. We are affected by solar power market and industry trends. In the fourth quarter of 2008 and the first half of 2009, the global solar power industry experienced a significant decline in demand due to decreases in expenditures on solar power systems and the availability of financing for buyers of solar power products as a result of the global financial crisis. Meanwhile, the manufacturing capacity of solar power products increased during the same period. As a result, the demand for as well as prices of solar power products declined significantly. Although demand for solar power products had increased significantly in 2010 compared with 2009, if demand for solar power products declines again and the supply of solar power products continues to grow, the average selling price of our products will be materially and adversely affected. 6 The demand for solar power products is also influenced by macroeconomic factors such as the global economic development, credit market, the supply and prices of other energy products, such as oil, coal and natural gas, as well as government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry. A decrease in oil prices, for example, may reduce demand for investment in alternative energy. If such negative market and industry trends recur in the future, the prices of our solar power products could decrease and our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. The reduction or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives or change in government policies and regulations may have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Demand for our products depends substantially on government incentives aimed to promote greater use of solar power. Countries that provide significant incentives for solar power include Germany, Italy, Spain, Japan, the United States, the Czech Republic, Belgium and China, among others. In many countries that constitute our major markets, solar power systems, particularly those for on-grid applications, would not be commercially viable without government incentives because the cost of generating electricity from solar power currently exceeds the cost of generating electricity from conventional or other non-solar renewable energy sources. The scope of government incentives for solar power depends, to a large extent, on political and policy developments relating to environmental concerns in a given country. Policy shifts could reduce or eliminate these government economic incentives altogether. For example, the rapid rises of the German and Italian solar power markets in 2010 were largely due to the government policies of those countries that set feed-in tariff terms at attractive rates. The effects of global economic downturns may affect the fiscal ability of governments to offer incentives for solar power. Any significant reduction in the scope or discontinuation of government incentive programs, especially those in significant markets such as European countries, could cause demand for our products and our revenues to decline, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The market for power generation products is also heavily influenced by government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry, as well as internal policies of electric utilities companies. These regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing, safety, utility interconnection, metering and related matters. End users’ purchases of alternative energy sources, including solar power products, could be deterred by unfavorable changes in regulations and policies, which could result in a significant reduction in the potential demand for our solar power products. For example, utility companies commonly charge fees to larger, industrial customers for disconnecting from the electricity transmission grid or for having the capacity to use power from the electricity transmission grid for back-up purposes. These fees could increase end users’ costs of using our solar power products and make products that use our solar cells less desirable, thereby having an adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The execution of our growth strategy is dependent upon the continued availability of financing to our customers as well as third-party financing arrangements for end-users of our products, and is affected by general economic conditions. Given the general economy, particularly the tightening of credit markets, we have extended credit to many new and existing customers or provided them with improved credit terms, including increasing credit limits and extending the time period before payments are due, ultimately increasing our accounts receivable and exposure to credit risks of our customers. In addition, we expect our receivables to further increase as a result of the expansion of our solar module business, which typically requires producers to grant credits to customers. The increase of our receivables and the failure of any of our new or existing customers to meet their payment obligations under the credit terms granted would deteriorate our working capital and materially and adversely affect our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. Our balance of provision for doubtful accounts increased from RMB 24.7 million in 2008 to RMB 41.1 million in 2009, but decreased to RMB 7.0 million in 2010. Although the balance of our provision for doubtful accounts decreased while we increased our revenue in 2010, there is no assurance that this trend will continue. 7 Furthermore, our products are a component of solar power and energy systems which are used in both on-grid applications and off-grid applications. Government agencies and the private sector have, from time to time, provided financing on preferential terms to promote the use of solar energy in both on-grid and off-grid applications. We believe that the availability and cost of such financing programs could have a significant effect on the level of sales of solar power products. If existing financing programs for on-grid and off-grid applications are eliminated or if financing in general become inaccessible or inadequate, the growth of the market for on-grid and off-grid applications may be materially and adversely affected, which could cause sales of our solar power products to decline. Due to the general reduction in available credit to would-be borrowers, customers may be unable or unwilling to finance the cost of our products, or parties that have historically provided this financing may cease to do so, or only do so on terms that are substantially less favorable for us or our customers. In addition, a rise in interest rates would likely increase the cost of financing to end users of our products and could reduce their profits and expected returns on investment in our products. A protracted disruption in the ability of our significant customers or downstream players to access sources of liquidity could cause serious disruptions to or an overall deterioration in their businesses, which could lead to a significant reduction in their future orders for our products and the inability or failure on their part to meet their payment obligations to us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In light of our increased sales to customers outside China, we face risks associated with the marketing, distribution and sale of our products overseas, and if we are unable to effectively manage these risks, they could impair our ability to expand our business overall. Historically, revenues from customers in China represented a significant portion of our overall revenues. In 2010, our revenues from customers outside China increased to 48.9%, compared to 26.2% in 2009. The stability and viability of any existing, new or potential overseas markets are subject to many uncertainties and may expose us to a number of risks, including: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • difficulty in engaging and retaining distributors who are knowledgeable about, and can function effectively in, overseas markets; • increased costs associated with maintaining the ability to understand local markets and follow their trends, as well as develop and maintain effective marketing and distributing presence in various countries; • increased costs associated with providing customer service and support in these markets; • difficulty and cost relating to compliance with the different commercial and legal requirements of the overseas markets in which we offer our products; • failure to develop appropriate risk management and internal control structures tailored to overseas operations; • failure to obtain or maintain certifications for our products in these markets; • failure to obtain, maintain or enforce intellectual property rights; and • trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and other restrictions and expenses, which could increase the prices of our products and make us less competitive in some countries. If we are unable to effectively manage these risks, we may not be able to successfully expand and grow our business as we have planned. 8 We may not be able to manage the expansion of our operations effectively. We commenced business operations in May 2005 and have since grown rapidly. Our solar cell manufacturing capacity increased from 25 MW in 2006 to 2,100 MW in 2010. We expect to further expand our business and production capacities to meet the growth in demand for our products and to capture new market opportunities. To manage the expansion of our operations, we need to install and operate new or expanded facilities, secure additional supplies of key raw materials, such as polysilicon and silicon wafers, and expand, train and manage our growing employee base. Our business and production capacity expansion will also place additional burdens on our research, sales, marketing and general managerial resources. Furthermore, we may not always have access to sufficient funds to support the expansion of our business. We cannot assure you that our current and planned operations, personnel, systems and internal procedures and controls will be adequate to support our expansion plans. In addition, we may experience underutilization of our expanded production capacities if there is insufficient demand for our products. If we are unable to manage our expansion effectively, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We have only expanded our business into upstream and downstream markets for a very short period of time and plan to continue our integration strategy. Any failure to successfully implement this strategy could have a material adverse effect on our growth, business prospects and results of operations. We have only expanded into upstream and downstream markets, such as silicon wafer and solar module businesses, since the fourth quarter of 2009. Our ability to successfully implement our upstream and downstream business integration is subject to various risks and uncertainties, including: • our short history in the new businesses; • our possible lack of competitiveness in product quality and cost structure in the new businesses; • the need for additional capital to finance our new business operations, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; • the need to recruit additional skilled employees, including technicians and managers at different levels; • the solar module business typically has longer cash conversion cycles with respect to our inventory and therefore results in our longer accounts receivable turnover time; • our expanded warranty liabilities associated with the solar module business, with the warranty period for solar modules lasting for 10 to 25 years; • potential conflict with our downstream customers as a result of our direct competition with them in the solar module business; and • new risks associated with the silicon wafer and solar module businesses yet to be fully understood by the industry and market. If we are unable to effectively manage these risks, we may not be able to successfully operate these new businesses and achieve the expected value of vertical business integration. In addition, the expansion into the downstream solar module market will result in substantial changes to our business, including, among others, the change of our customer base and product mix. Our customer base has evolved from primarily module manufacturers and distributors to include system integrators and solar power project developers. We have limited experience managing relationships with these new customers. Moreover, the change of product mix may adversely affect our overall gross margin as a percentage of our revenues. As we just recently expanded into the solar module business, we may experience low gross margin for the sales of our solar module products in order to compete effectively in the market. We may not be able to improve the gross margin percentage of our solar module products to the same level as of our solar cell products. As we increase sales of solar modules, our overall gross margin percentage could be adversely affected. All these could adversely affect our business expansion strategy and our chance of success in these new businesses. 9 Prepayment arrangements for procurement of silicon wafers and/or polysilicon from Jinglong Group, GCL, M.SETEK and other suppliers expose us to the credit risks of such suppliers and may also significantly increase our costs and expenses, either of which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We face significant specific counterparty risk under long-term supply contracts when dealing with suppliers without a long, stable production and financial history. We make prepayments to these suppliers for procurement of polysilicon, ingots or wafers without receiving collateral to secure such payments. Due to recent growing demand for polysilicon and our expected production capacity expansion, we may be required to make additional prepayments under existing or new long-term supply contracts. In the event any such supplier experiences financial difficulties, or even bankruptcy, it may be difficult or impossible, or may require substantial time and expenses, for us to recover any or all of our prepayments. In 2010, one of our long-term suppliers failed to deliver silicon wafers pursuant to contractual terms. We initiated legal actions to seek remedies and eventually settled these suits. However, these efforts incurred legal expenses and distracted our management attention. If legal actions were required to recover our prepayments, our claims for such prepayments would rank as unsecured claims, which expose us to the credit risks of our suppliers in the case of an insolvency or bankruptcy of such suppliers. Under such circumstances, our claims against the suppliers would rank below those of secured creditors, which would undermine our chances of obtaining the return of the prepayments. Accordingly, if a supplier to which we make prepayment defaults on its obligations under a supply contract, we may not be able to recover all or a portion of our outstanding prepayment, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Our ability to adjust our raw materials costs may be limited as a result of our entering into long-term supply agreements with many of our polysilicon and silicon wafer suppliers, and it may be difficult for us to respond in a timely manner to rapidly changing market conditions, which could materially and adversely affect our cost of revenues and profitability. In order to secure adequate and timely supply of polysilicon and silicon wafers during the periods of shortages of polysilicon and silicon wafer supplies, we entered into a number of long-term supply agreements for polysilicon, ingots and wafers with a limited number of suppliers, including Hebei Jinglong, Jiangsu Zhongneng Polysilicon Technology Development Co., Ltd., an affiliate of GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Limited, or GCL, M.SETEK Co., Ltd., or M.SETEK, and Wacker Chemie AG, or Wacker. Some agreements provide for fixed pricing, substantial prepayment obligations, and/or firm purchase commitments that require us to pay for the supply whether or not we accept delivery. Due to the decrease in prices of polysilicon and silicon wafers in the second half of 2008, we had renegotiated the unit price and volume terms of many of our long-term supply agreements and had entered into amendments for many of them. Although prices of polysilicon and silicon wafers have increased since the second half of 2010, in view of the significant volatility of the polysilicon prices during the past few years, we believe it is possible that the prices of polysilicon and silicon wafers may decrease again. Although we plan to continue to renegotiate our long-term supply agreements if market prices fall significantly below contracted prices, such negotiations may not yield to any results. If prices of polysilicon or silicon wafers decrease in the future and we are unable to renegotiate the unit price and volume terms of some of our existing long-term supply agreements, we may not be able to adjust our materials costs, and our cost of revenues would be materially and adversely affected. In the event that our raw material costs become comparatively higher than that of our competitors who are able to procure polysilicon and silicon wafers at lower prices, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, we may choose not to procure polysilicon, ingots or wafers under certain contracts if we deem the prices under such contracts are unfavorable to us under prevailing market conditions and/or we are unable to renegotiate the price of the polysilicon, ingots or wafers. In the event we choose not to procure polysilicon, ingots or wafers under certain contracts, we may be forced to forfeit certain prepayment amounts which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. 10 We may not be able to obtain sufficient silicon raw materials in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We procure silicon raw materials through a combination of long-term supply contracts and spot market purchases. With the rapid and aggressive expansion of our production capacities in 2010 and expected expansion plans in 2011, we anticipate to enter into additional long-term supply contracts as well as obtain silicon raw materials from the spot market to supplement supplies under our existing long-term supply contracts. However, we may experience interruption to our supply of silicon raw materials or late delivery in the future for the following reasons, among others: • suppliers under our silicon material supply contracts may delay deliveries for a significant period of time without incurring penalties; • there can be no assurance that our supplies will be able to meet our production needs consistently or on a timely basis; • some of our competitors who also purchase polysilicon from our suppliers may have longer and stronger relationships with and have greater buying power and bargaining leverage over some of our key suppliers; and • our supply of silicon raw materials is subject to the business risk of our suppliers, some of whom have limited operating history and limited financial resources, and one or more of which could go out of business for reasons beyond our control. In particular, one of our long-term silicon wafer suppliers, M.SETEK, is located in Japan. On March 11, 2011, a magnitude-9 earthquake — the biggest in Japan’s recorded history — struck Japan and triggered a tsunami affecting vast areas in Japan and causing widespread power shortages. We were informed by M.SETEK that although the majority of its manufacturing equipment and facilities were not damaged in the earthquake, its operation is affected by the power shortage. As of the date of this report, it is unknown whether silicon wafer delivery from M.SETEK will be affected. Our failure to obtain the required amounts of silicon raw materials in a timely manner and on commercially reasonable terms would increase our manufacturing costs and/or substantially limit our ability to meet our contractual obligations to deliver products to our customers. Any failure by us to meet such obligations could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, ability to retain customers, market share, business and results of operations and may subject us to claims from our customers and other disputes. Our failure to obtain sufficient silicon raw materials would also result in underutilization of our production facilities and an increase in our marginal production costs. Furthermore, although the price of polysilicon decreased in the second half of 2008, the spot price of polysilicon has trended upwards since the second half of 2010. An increase in the spot price of polysilicon will increase our cost of revenues. Any of the above events could have a material adverse effect on our growth, profitability and results of operations. We require a significant amount of cash to fund our future capital expenditure requirements and working capital needs; if we cannot obtain additional sources of liquidity when we need it, our growth prospects and future profitability may be materially and adversely affected. We have been expanding our business and will continue to do so to remain competitive. We expanded our business to upstream wafer and downstream module production in the fourth quarter of 2009 and increased our annual solar cell manufacturing capacity from 800 MW in 2009 to 2,100 MW in 2010. We expect to further expand the manufacturing capacities of our solar power products. In addition, we plan to establish a new vertically-integrated manufacturing center in Hefei, China, to further expand our manufacturing capacity. We will need a significant amount of cash to fund our capital expenditures for these expansion plans, as well as for our research and development, or R&D, activities in order to remain competitive. Besides capital expenditures, we have significant working capital commitments because suppliers of silicon wafers and polysilicon usually require us to make prepayments in advance of shipments. Future acquisitions, market changes or other developments may also cause me to require additional funds. 11 Historically, we have relied on equity and debt offerings, bank borrowings and operating cash flow to finance our capital expenditure and working capital requirements. If we cannot generate sufficient operating cash flow to fund our capital expenditure and working capital needs, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or borrow from lending institutions. Our ability to obtain external financing is subject to a number of uncertainties, including: • our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; • the state of global credit markets; • general market conditions for financing activities by companies in our industry; and • economic, political and other conditions in China and elsewhere. If we are unable to obtain funding in a timely manner or on commercially acceptable terms, or at all, our growth prospects and future profitability may be materially and adversely affected. For example, the tightening of PRC credit market and interest rate increases in China since 2010 may limit the availability of financing to us, or at all, or increase the costs of such financing. In addition, the sale of additional equity securities, including convertible debt securities, would dilute our existing shareholders. The incurrence of debt would result in increased interest rate risk, divert cash for working capital and capital expenditures to service debt obligations and could result in operating and financial covenants that restrict our operations and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders, if any. A shortage of such funds could in turn impose limitations on our ability to plan for, or react effectively to, changing market conditions or to expand through organic and acquisitive growth, thereby reducing our competitiveness. We have substantial existing indebtedness, in particular long-term indebtedness, and we may incur substantial indebtedness in the future, which could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to generate sufficient cash to satisfy our outstanding and future debt obligations. We incurred a significant amount of debt and substantial debt service requirements as a result of the May 2008 offering of the 4.5% senior convertible notes maturing on May 15, 2013, or the 2008 Senior Notes. As of December 31, 2010, we had a total long term bank borrowings of RMB 1.5 billion and the face value of the outstanding 2008 Senior Notes was US$ 228.2 million. Our substantial indebtedness could have significant consequences on our future operations, including: • requiring us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, which would reduce our cash flows available for working capital, capital expenditures, development projects and other general corporate purposes; • limiting our flexibility in planning for or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industry in which we operate and the general economy; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt or are less leveraged. Any of the above-listed factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to meet our payment and other obligations depends on our ability to generate significant cash flows in the future. This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors as well as other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us in amounts sufficient and on terms reasonable to us to support our liquidity needs. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debts, including the 2008 Senior Notes, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. If we incur additional indebtedness, our increased debt service requirements may adversely affect our ability to meet our payment obligations on the 2008 Senior Notes and otherwise successfully grow and operate our business. 12 Our efforts to further develop our technology and know-how through increased research and development of crystalline silicon technology may not yield satisfactory results, if any. The solar power industry is rapidly evolving and becoming more competitive. We will need to invest significant financial resources in research and development to keep pace with technological advances in the solar power industry and to effectively compete in the future. We have expended and may continue to expend significant financial resources in research and development of crystalline silicon and commercialization of new technologies to effectively compete with other market players in the future. Our research and development efforts are focused on improving conversion efficiencies of our solar power products. For example, we introduced our Secium cell line in 2010 and Maple technology in 2011. However, research and development activities are inherently uncertain, and we might encounter practical difficulties in commercializing our research results. A variety of competing photovoltaic technologies that other companies may develop could prove to be more cost-effective and have better performance than solar power products that we develop. Therefore, our development efforts may be rendered obsolete by the technological advances of others. Breakthroughs in photovoltaic technologies that do not use crystalline silicon could mean that companies such as us that rely entirely on crystalline silicon would encounter a sudden, sharp drop in sales. One of the alternative technologies in the production of solar cells is thin film technology. The use of thin film technology in the production of solar cells would significantly reduce the consumption of silicon materials and manufacturing costs. New developments in commercialization of thin film technology may render our existing technologies obsolete and our products uncompetitive, which would result in loss in our profitability and market share and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If photovoltaic technology is not suitable for widespread adoption, or sufficient demand for solar power products does not develop or takes longer to develop than we anticipated, our sales may not continue to increase or may even decline, and we may be unable to sustain profitability. The solar power market is at a development stage and the extent to which solar power products will be widely adopted is uncertain. Market data in the solar power industry are not as readily available as those in other more established industries where trends can be assessed more reliably from data gathered over a longer period of time. Many factors may affect the viability of widespread adoption of photovoltaic technology and demand for solar power products, including: • cost-effectiveness of solar power products compared to conventional and other non-solar energy sources and products; • performance and reliability of solar power products compared to conventional and other non-solar energy sources and products; • availability of government subsidies and incentives to support the development of the solar power industry; • success of other alternative energy generation technologies, such as fuel cells, wind power and biomass; • fluctuations in economic and market conditions that affect the viability of conventional and non-solar alternative energy sources, such as increases or decreases in the prices of oil and other fossil fuels; and • capital expenditures by end users of solar power products, which tend to decrease when the economy slows down. 13 The solar power market also competes with other sources of renewable energy and conventional power generation. If prices for conventional and other renewable energy resources decline, or if these resources enjoy greater policy support than solar power, the solar power market could suffer. If photovoltaic technology proves unsuitable for widespread adoption or if demand for solar power products fails to develop sufficiently, we may not be able to grow our business or generate sufficient revenues to sustain our profitability. In addition, demand for solar power products in our target markets may not develop or may develop to a lesser extent than we anticipated. We depend on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of product sales; changes in customer purchase amounts, terms or patterns may cause significant fluctuations or declines in its revenues. A substantial portion of our revenues depends on sales to a limited number of customers and the loss of sales to or inability to collect from these customers would have a significant negative impact on our business. In particular, as we recently expanded our business to include solar modules, we currently sell our solar module products to a limited number of module customers, although no single customer represents 10% or more of our total revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2010, approximately 49.8% of our total revenues were derived from sales of solar products to our top ten customers. We anticipate that our dependence on a limited number of customers will continue for the foreseeable future. Consequently, failure of us to develop or maintain our customer relationships with these and other customers may have an adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and cash flows. We expect to continue to rely on a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. No assurance can be given that any of these customers will continue to purchase significant quantities of, or any, solar power products from us. Due to our reliance on a limited number of customers, any failure of us to develop or maintain our customer relationships with these and other customers may have an adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and cash flows. Cancellation of customer orders could cause our operating results to fluctuate. We have signed long term sales arrangements with certain customers. In conjunction with these long term contracts, we received customer prepayments amounting to RMB 53.9 million and RMB 484.5 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2010, respectively. However, even though we charge a prepayment under many contracts, our customers may still cancel or reschedule purchase orders with us on relatively short notice. Cancellations or rescheduling of customer orders could result in delay or loss of anticipated sales without allowing us sufficient time to reduce, or delay the incurrence of, our corresponding inventory and operating expenses. In addition, changes in forecasts or the timing of orders from these or other customers expose us to the risks of inventory shortages or excess inventory. These circumstances, in addition to variations in average selling prices, and the fact that our supply agreements are generally long-term in nature and many of our other operating costs are fixed, in turn could cause our operating results to fluctuate and may result in a material adverse effect in our business. Changes in international trade policies and international barriers to trade may adversely affect our ability to export our products to certain countries. Our sales to overseas markets, such as Europe and North America, have increased significantly in 2010, increasing the risk that any unfavorable trade policies in foreign markets could affect the sale of our products. As our manufacturing bases and some of our downstream customers are located in China, we and our customers may be affected by any claims of unfair trade practices that are brought against the PRC government through the imposition of tariffs, non-tariff barriers to trade or other trade remedies. In September 2010, the United Steel Workers filed a petition with the United States Trade Representative, or USTR, alleging the PRC government has engaged in unfair trade policies and practices with respect to certain domestic industries, including the solar power industry. Subsequently, USTR initiated an investigation under Section 301 of the United States Trade Act of 1974, as amended, which is ongoing as of the date of this annual report. Although we believe we will not be directly affected by the results of this investigation, there can be no assurance that any government or international trade body will not institute adverse trade policies or remedies against exports from China in the future. Any significant changes in international trade policies, practices or trade remedies, especially those instituted in our target markets or markets where our major customers are located, could increase the price of our products compared to our competitors or decrease our customers’ demand for our products, which may adversely affect our business prospects and results of operations. 14 We compete in a highly competitive market and many of our competitors have greater resources. The solar power market is intensely competitive and rapidly evolving. We expect to face increased competition, which may result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share. Although we have recently expanded into upstream silicon wafer manufacturing and downstream solar module business, some of our competitors have become vertically integrated for a longer period of time than us. We expect to compete with future entrants to the photovoltaic market that offer new technological solutions. Furthermore, many of our competitors are developing or currently producing products based on new photovoltaic technologies, including thin film, ribbon, sheet and nano technologies, which they believe will ultimately cost the same as or less than crystalline silicon technologies used by us. In addition, the entire photovoltaic industry also faces competition from conventional and non-solar renewable energy technologies. Due to the relatively high manufacturing costs compared to most other energy sources, solar energy is generally not competitive without government incentive programs. Many of our existing and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing and other resources than we do. Our competitors’ greater size and longer operating history in some cases provide them with a competitive advantage with respect to manufacturing costs because of their economies of scale and their ability to purchase raw materials at lower prices. Many of our competitors also have greater brand name recognition, more established distribution networks and larger customer bases. In addition, many of our competitors have well-established relationships with our existing and potential customers and have extensive knowledge of our target markets. As a result, they may be able to devote greater resources to the research, development, promotion and sale of their products and respond more quickly to evolving industry standards and changes in market conditions. Our failure to adapt to changing market conditions and to compete successfully with existing or new competitors may materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We obtain certain manufacturing equipment from sole or a limited number of suppliers and if such equipment is damaged or otherwise unavailable, our ability to deliver products on time will suffer, which in turn could result in order cancellations and loss of revenue. Some of our equipment used in the manufacture of our solar power products has been developed and made specifically for us, is not readily available from alternative vendors and would be difficult to repair or replace if it were to become damaged or stop working. In addition, we obtain some equipment from sole or a limited number of suppliers. If any of these suppliers were to experience financial difficulties or go out of business, or if there were any damage to or a breakdown of our manufacturing equipment at a time when we are manufacturing commercial quantities of our products, our business would suffer. In addition, a supplier’s failure to supply our ordered equipment in a timely manner, with adequate quality and on terms acceptable to us, could delay and otherwise disrupt our production schedule or increase our costs of production. Problems with product quality or product performance may cause us to incur warranty expenses, damage our market reputation and prevent us from achieving increased sales and market share, or result in a decrease in our revenues and market share. While we employ quality assurance procedures at key manufacturing stages to identify and resolve quality issues, our solar power products may contain defects that are not detected until after they are shipped or installed. These defects could cause us to incur significant re-engineering costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from product development efforts, lead to returns of, or requests to return our products and significantly affect our customer relations and business reputation. If we deliver solar power products with errors or defects, or if there is a perception that our solar power products contain errors or defects, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our products could be harmed. 15 In addition, with respect to our solar module business, we provide a one to five year warranty that the modules will be free from defects in materials and workmanship from the production date and a 10 to 25 year performance warranty against declines of power generation capacity from the time of delivery. As a result of these warranties, we bear the risk of extensive warranty claims long after we have sold our products and recognized revenues. We therefore, in accordance with our own history, industry data and industry practices, accrue 1% of our sales of solar modules as warranty costs. Because we only recently started to manufacture and sell solar modules, which have been in use for only a relatively short period, we cannot assure you that our assumptions regarding the durability and reliability of our products are reasonable. Our warranty provisions may be inadequate, and we may have to incur substantial expense to repair or replace defective products in the future. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Given the importance of intellectual property to our business, we rely primarily on a combination of patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright, as well as employee and third party confidentiality agreements to safeguard our intellectual property. As of December 31, 2010, we had a total of 13 registered patents and 28 pending patent applications in China as well as one pending patent application in the United States. However, we cannot assure you that the steps which we have taken will be sufficient to protect our intellectual property rights or that third parties would not infringe upon or misappropriate any such rights. Moreover, it is costly to litigate in order to protect any of our intellectual property rights. If we are unable to prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating these rights in our self-owned products, the future financial condition and the ability to develop our business could be materially adversely affected. We may be exposed to infringement or misappropriation claims by third parties, which, if determined adversely to us, could cause us to lose significant rights and pay significant damage awards. Our success also depends largely on our ability to use and develop our technology and know-how without infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. Although we are not currently aware of any parties pursuing or intending to pursue infringement claims against us, we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to such claims in the future. Also, because patent applications in many jurisdictions are kept confidential for 18 months before they are published, we may be unaware of other persons’ pending patent applications that relate to our products or processes. Our suppliers may also become subject to infringement claims, which in turn could negatively impact our business as they may no longer be able to fulfill their delivery obligations under their contracts with us or refund our outstanding prepayments in a timely manner or at all. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, patent opposition proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in any such litigation or proceedings to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liability to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties, to pay ongoing royalties, or to redesign our products or subject us to injunctions prohibiting the manufacture and sale of our products or the use of our technologies. Protracted litigation could also result in our customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our products until resolution of such litigation. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Legal action against the Lehman Entities in connection with the Lehman Entities’ insolvency proceedings could be expensive, time-consuming and ultimately unsuccessful. We had the following business relationships with the Lehman Entities around the world: (i) an investment of US$100 million in note issued by Lehman Brothers Treasury Co. BV (“Lehman BV”) (the “Lehman Note”); (ii) an ADS lending agreement dated as of May 13, 2008 with Lehman Brothers International (Europe) (“LBIE”); and (iii) a capped call confirmation dated May 13, 2008 with Lehman Brothers OTC Derivatives Inc. (“Lehman OTC”) (the “Capped Call”). 16 All of the Lehman Entities are now undergoing insolvency proceedings in various countries. Although we sold Lehman Notes to a third party in December 2010, we are participating in the insolvency proceedings of the Lehman Entities to assert our claims, including seeking the return of the ADSs borrowed by LBIE under the ADS lending agreements and preserving our rights in relation to the Capped Call. During this process, we may incur significant legal expenses and allocate management time and attention to the legal action. Despite our expense and efforts, however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to recover any of the shares or money-owed or be awarded any damages from the Lehman Entities. Our quarterly revenues and operating results may be difficult to predict and could fall below investor expectations, which could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. Our quarterly revenues and operation results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly depending upon numerous factors, including seasonality of demand for solar power products, changes in market conditions and industry environment, and changes in government policies or regulations. For example, purchases of solar power products tend to decrease due to severe weather conditions in winter months, which complicates the installation of solar power systems. Many of these factors are beyond our control, making our quarterly results difficult to predict, which could cause the trading price of our ADSs to decline if our operating results for any particular quarter fall below investor expectations. Our senior management has worked together for a relatively short period of time, which may make it difficult for you to evaluate their effectiveness and ability to address challenges. Due to our limited operating history and recent changes to our management team, certain of our senior management and employees have worked together at our company for a relatively short period of time. For example, we have experienced turnover in our senior management ranks and hired or appointed a number of executive officers and senior management in the past few years, including our chief executive officer and chief technology officer in 2010. In light of the foregoing circumstances, it may be difficult for you to evaluate the effectiveness of our senior management and their ability to address future challenges to our business. Members of our senior management may not work together effectively as a team to manage our growth successfully, which may expose us to a higher risk of internal control deficiencies and result in us losing market share, business opportunity and revenues. The success of our business depends on the continuing efforts of our key personnel and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, train and retain qualified technical personnel, particularly those with expertise in the solar power industry. There is substantial competition for qualified technical personnel, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain our qualified technical personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified technical personnel, our business may be materially and adversely affected. We rely heavily on the continued services of our executive officers. If one or more of our executive officers are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily or at all. As a result, our business may be severely disrupted and we may incur additional expenses to recruit and retain new officers. In addition, if any of our executive officers joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose some or all of our customers. We believe our future success will depend upon our ability to retain these key employees and our ability to attract and retain other skilled managerial, engineering and sales and marketing personnel. Each of our executive officers and other key personnel has entered into an employment agreement with us, which contains confidentiality and non-competition provisions. However, if any disputes arise between our employees and us, we cannot assure you, in light of uncertainties associated with the PRC legal system, the extent to which any of these agreements could be enforced in China, where some of our executive officers reside and hold some of their assets. 17 As we have awarded and will continue to award employee share options and other share-based compensation to certain of our directors, officers, employees and consultants, our net income will be adversely affected. Under our 2006 stock incentive plan, we may award stock options and other share-based compensations to purchase up to 10% of our issued share capital to certain of our directors, employees and consultants. As of March 31, 2011, we have awarded 3,952,000 restricted share units and granted options to purchase 17,432,000 ordinary shares to a number of our directors, employees and consultants. See “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees — B. Compensation — Stock Option Plans.” In accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC, Topic 718, Compensation-Stock Compensation, which requires all companies to recognize, as an expense, the fair value of share options and other share-based compensation to employees, we are required to account for compensation costs for all restricted share units and share options granted to our directors, employees and consultants using a fair-value based method and recognize expenses in our consolidated statement of operations in accordance with the relevant rules under U.S. GAAP. Our share-based compensation expenses have a material and adverse effect on our reported earnings for the year during which the share-base compensation are granted and over their vesting periods. Moreover, the additional expenses associated with administrating share-based compensation may reduce the attractiveness of such incentive plan to us. However, if we stop granting options, or reduce the number of options granted, under our stock incentive plan, we may not be able to attract and retain key personnel, as share options are an important employee recruitment and retention tool. In addition, the decline in the price of our ADSs representing our ordinary shares below the exercise price of many of the previously granted options has lessened the effectiveness of the options as a means to retain the services of the option holders. As a result, we have granted more stock options to certain individuals and will continue to grant employee share options or other share-based compensation in the future that may adversely affect our net income. There are potential conflicts of interest between us and our largest shareholder, Jinglong BVI. Jinglong BVI, which is controlled by the shareholders of Hebei Jinglong, is our largest shareholder. In addition, Mr. Baofang Jin, the executive chairman of our Board of Directors, is a shareholder of Jinglong BVI and is also the chairman of Hebei Jinglong. Jinglong Group (including Hebei Jinglong) currently provides a number of products and services to us, including silicon wafer supply (on prepayment terms) and real property leases. Our transactions with Jinglong Group are governed by a number of contracts, the terms of which were negotiated at what we believe are on an arm’s length basis. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — B. Related Party Transactions.” However, the interest of Jinglong BVI may conflict with our own interest with respect to our transactions with Jinglong Group. As a result, we may have limited ability to negotiate with Jinglong Group over the terms of the agreements because Jinglong BVI may exert significant influence on our affairs through our Board of Directors. In addition, Jinglong BVI may be able to prevent us from taking actions to enforce or exercise our rights under the agreements we entered into with Jinglong Group. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that our transactions with Jinglong Group will always be concluded on terms favorable to us or maintained at the current level or at all in the future. As a result, when these situations arise, our financial condition, results of operations and implementation of strategy ma be materially and adversely affected. We have limited insurance coverage and may incur significant losses resulting from operating hazards, product liability claims or business interruptions. As with other solar power product manufacturers, our operations involve the use, handling, generation, processing, storage, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials, which may result in fires, explosions, spills and other unexpected or dangerous accidents causing personal injuries or death, property damages, environmental damages and business interruptions. Although we currently carry third-party liability insurances against property damages, these insurance policies are limited in scope and may not cover all claims relating to personal injury, property or environmental damage arising from accidents on our properties or relating to our operations. Any occurrence of these or other accidents in our operation not insured under our existing insurance policies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 18 We are also exposed to risks associated with product liability claims in the event that the use of the solar power products we sell results in injury. Because our solar products are generally incorporated into solar power devices to generate electricity, it is possible that users could be injured or killed by the solar power devices incorporating our solar products, whether by product malfunctions, defects, improper installation or other causes. While we have not experienced any product liability claims brought against us, we are unable to predict whether such claims will be brought against us in the future or the effect of any resulting adverse publicity on our business. Although we have begun purchasing product liability insurances since 2010, there is no assurance that these insurance policies will provide adequate coverage in the event of a successful product liability claim against us. If our product liability insurances are not adequate, the successful assertion of product liability claims against us could result in potentially significant monetary damages and require us to make significant payments. In addition, the normal operation of our manufacturing facilities may be interrupted by accidents caused by operating hazards, power supply disruptions, equipment failures, as well as natural disasters. As the insurance industry in China is still in an early stage of development, business interruption insurance available in China offers limited coverage compared to that offered in many other countries, and we do not carry any business interruption insurance. Any business disruption or natural disaster could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, and our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Compliance with environmental regulations is expensive, and noncompliance may result in adverse publicity and potentially significant monetary damages and fines or suspension of our business operations. We are required to comply with all national and local regulations regarding the protection of the environment. Compliance with environmental regulations is expensive. The PRC government is adopting more stringent environmental protection regulations and the costs of complying with these regulations are expected to increase. For each of our solar product manufacturing facilities, it is required to conduct an environmental impact assessment, obtain approval of the assessment before commencing construction and complete an examination and obtain an environmental acceptance approval before it is able to begin production. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with all applicable environmental protection requirements, obtain these approvals and permits upon completion of the construction or commencement of commercial production on a timely basis or at all. The relevant governmental authorities may impose fines or deadlines on us to cure any non-compliance, and these authorities may also order us to cease construction or production if we fail to comply with these requirements. In addition, we are subject to licensing requirements, regulations and periodic monitoring by local environmental protection authorities, and are required to comply with all PRC national and local environmental protection laws and regulations. If we fail to obtain the required permits and licenses, we will not be able to obtain an environmental acceptance approval and may not be allowed to produce. We may also be subject to substantial fines or damages or suspension of our production operations, and our reputation may be harmed, which could negatively affect our results of operations and financial position. For strategic reasons and in an effort to maximize returns on our unused capital reserves, we may, from time to time, invest in securities purchased on the open market, which may, due to market forces beyond our control, result in the recognition of losses that will adversely affect our financial results. Although we did not invest in any securities at the end of 2010, for both strategic reasons and in an effort to maximize the return on our unused capital reserves, we had, and may, from time to time invest in certain securities purchased on the open market. The fair value of these securities is driven by market forces beyond our control and may decline over time. To protect the value of our investment and minimize the recognition of losses, if any, we may, from time to time, dispose of such securities at the discretion of our Board of Directors. To the extent that we, in compliance with U.S. GAAP and other applicable rules and regulations, determine that a decline in the fair value of any of our securities is other-than-temporary, we are obligated to recognize such decline as a loss, which will in turn adversely affect our financial results. 19 We may incur significant legal expenses in connection with, and allocate management time and attention to, legal actions involving us that may take place from time to time, including the legal actions currently filed against us, and it is possible that we will not be able to prevail in our legal actions. In December 2008, we were named as defendant in two putative securities class actions filed in the Unite States District Court for the Southern District of New York: Ellenburg v. JA Solar Holdings Co., Ltd., et al., Civil Action No. 08 CV 10475 (filed on December 3, 2008) and Zhang v. JA Solar Holdings Co., Ltd., et al., Civil Action No. 08 CV 11366 (filed on December 31, 2008). Both Mr. Huaijin Yang, our former chief executive officer, and Mr. Daniel Lui, our former chief financial officer and chief strategy officer, were also named as defendants in the two actions (which are substantially identical), under which that the defendants were alleged to have committed securities fraud in violation of Section 10(b) of the United States Securities and Exchange Act. The Court consolidated the two cases in April 2009. In February 2011, we reached an agreement in principle to settle these securities class action lawsuits. Under the terms of the proposed settlement, a sum of US$4.5 million (less any award of attorneys’ fees and costs to counsel for the class that may be approved by the Court) will be made available by us to shareholders who may qualify for a distribution under the settlement. As part of the settlement, the plaintiff agreed to dismiss the action and drop all claims against us and the individual defendants. The settlement is subject to the Court granting final approval of the settlement terms, which is set to be heard on June 24, 2011. During these processes, and in other legal actions that may take place from time to time, we may incur significant legal expenses and allocate management time and attention to the legal actions. No assurance can be provided that we will be able to prevail in our legal actions. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. A significant portion of our business operations are conducted in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: • the amount of government involvement; • the level of development; • the growth rate; • the control of foreign exchange; and • the allocation of resources. While the Chinese economy has grown significantly in the past years, the growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. 20 The Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the PRC government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the PRC government could materially and adversely affect our business. The PRC government also exercises significant control over Chinese economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Efforts by the PRC government to slow the pace of growth of the Chinese economy could result in decreased capital expenditure by solar energy users, which in turn could reduce demand for our products. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth and the level of renewable energy investments and expenditures in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our businesses. Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi versus that of other foreign currencies may have a material adverse effect on our business. The change in value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar, Euro and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in an appreciation of the Renminbi from approximately RMB 8.2765 per US$1.00 as of July 21, 2005 to RMB 6.6000 per US$1.00 as of December 30, 2010. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. As a significant portion of our costs and expenses is denominated in Renminbi, potential future revaluation could further increase our costs. In addition, any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ADSs in foreign currency terms. For example, to the extent that we need to convert Euros and U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operations, an appreciation of the Renminbi against Euros and U.S. dollars would have an adverse effect on the Renminbi amount we receive from the conversion. We cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations and may incur net foreign currency losses in the future. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi may have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available for these purposes. Furthermore, an appreciation in the value of the Renminbi against foreign currencies could make our solar products more expensive for our customers outside China as well as reduce the competitiveness of our PRC customers in the international market, thus potentially leading to a reduction in our sales and profitability. Many of our competitors are foreign companies that could benefit from such a currency fluctuation, making it more difficult for us to compete with these companies. As we expand our sales to customers outside China, a significant portion of our revenues is and may continue to be denominated in foreign currencies. We have entered into, and may continue to enter into, foreign currency forward contracts with commercial banks to hedge part of our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk for our overseas sales. As with all hedging instruments, there are risks associated with the use of foreign currency forward contracts. While the use of such foreign currency forward contracts provides us with protection from certain fluctuations in foreign currency exchange, we potentially forgo the benefits that might result from favorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange. Any default by the counterparties to these transactions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, these financial hedging transactions may not provide adequate protection against future foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and, consequently, such fluctuations could result in foreign exchange losses and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 21 Natural disasters, acts of war, political unrest and epidemics, which are beyond our control, may cause damage, loss or disruption to our business. Natural disasters, acts of war, political unrest and epidemics, which are beyond our control, may adversely affect the economy, infrastructure and livelihood of the people of the PRC. Some cities in the PRC are particularly susceptible to floods, earthquakes, sandstorms and droughts. The business, financial condition and results of operations of us may be materially and adversely affected if such natural disasters occur. Political unrest, acts of war and terrorists attacks may cause damage or disruption to us, our employees, our facilities, the sales channels operated by authorized third-party retailers of us and our markets, any of which could materially and adversely affect the our sales, overall operating results and financial condition. The potential for war or terrorists attacks may also cause uncertainty and cause the our business to suffer in ways that we cannot currently predict. In addition, certain Asian countries, including the PRC, have encountered epidemics such as SARS, incidents of the avian flu or the H1N1 flu. Past occurrences of epidemics have caused different degrees of damage to the national and local economies in the PRC. A recurrence of an outbreak of SARS, avian flu, the H1N1 flu or any other similar epidemic, could cause a lowdown in the levels of economic activity generally, which could in turn adversely affect our results of operations. Price inflation in China could erode some of the advantages of operating in a relatively low-cost jurisdiction such as China, which could negatively affect our competitive advantages and our results of operations. Inflation in China has been increasing in recent years. According to the National Bureau of Statistics of China, consumer price inflation in China was 5.9%, -0.7% and 3.3% in 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively. Because we conduct manufacturing and purchase raw materials from suppliers in China, price inflation increases the costs of labor and raw materials for manufacturing and risks counteracting the competitive advantage we enjoy as a result of the relatively lower manufacturing costs we incur from operating in China. China’s inflation rates rose in 2010 and may continue to rise in 2011. If inflationary trends continue in China, China could lose its competitive advantage as a low-cost manufacturing venue, which could in turn lessen any competitive and reputational advantages we gain through China-based manufacturing. Although we have started the process and will continue to gradually automate our production lines in order to reduce the impact of increases in labor cost in the long run, inflation in China may still weaken our competitiveness in our markets and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could have a material adverse effect on us. We conduct a significant portion of our business inside China through our various wholly-owned subsidiaries and are therefore subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. Our operating subsidiaries in China are subject to legal limitations in paying dividends to us. The payment of dividends by entities organized in China is subject to limitations. Regulations in the PRC currently permit payment of dividends by our PRC subsidiaries only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in China. Our subsidiaries are also required to set aside at least 10% of their after-tax profits based on PRC accounting standards each year to their general reserves until the accumulative amount of such reserves reach 50% of their respective registered capital. In addition, at the discretion of their respective board of directors, our PRC subsidiaries may allocate a portion of their after-tax profits to their respective staff welfare and bonus funds, which may not be distributed to equity owners except in the event of liquidation. Furthermore, if our PRC subsidiaries incur debt on their own behalves in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Limitations on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends, or otherwise fund and conduct our business. 22 PRC regulations on currency exchange and foreign investment may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively and may delay or prevent us from using the proceeds from our fundraising activities to make loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiaries. A significant portion of our revenues and expenses are denominated in Renminbi. If our revenues denominated in Renminbi increase or expenses denominated in Renminbi decrease in the future, we may need to convert a portion of our revenues into other currencies to meet our foreign currency obligations, including, among others, payment of dividends declared, if any, in respect of our ordinary shares. Under China’s existing foreign exchange regulations, our PRC subsidiaries are able to pay dividends in foreign currencies, without prior approval from the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not take further measures in the future to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. Foreign exchange transactions by our PRC subsidiaries under the capital account continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of PRC governmental authorities, including SAFE. To utilize the proceeds of any equity or debt offering as an offshore holding company of our PRC operating subsidiaries, we may make loans to our PRC subsidiaries, or we may make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries. Any loan from offshore companies to our PRC subsidiaries are subject to PRC regulations. For example, loans by us to our subsidiaries in China, which are foreign-invested enterprises, or FIEs, to finance their activities cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with SAFE. We may also finance our subsidiaries by means of capital contributions. These capital contributions must be approved by the PRC Ministry of Commerce, or MOFCOM, or its local counterparts. We may not be able to obtain these government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future capital contributions by us to our subsidiaries. If we fail to receive such approvals, our ability to use the proceeds we have received, or may receive, from our equity or debt offerings and to capitalize our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. Our business benefits from certain PRC government incentives. Expiration of, or changes to, these incentives could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Under the previous Income Tax Law of the People’s Republic of China for Enterprises with Foreign Investment and Foreign Enterprises, or the FEIT Law, and the related implementation rules which was repealed on January 1, 2008, FIEs established in China was generally subject to enterprise income tax at a state tax rate of 33% on PRC taxable income. The PRC government had provided certain incentives to FIEs in order to encourage foreign investments, including tax exemptions, tax reductions and other measures. Under the FEIT Law and the related implementation rules, FIEs were entitled to be exempted from foreign enterprise income tax for a 2-year period starting from their first profit-making year followed by a 50% reduction of foreign enterprise income tax payable for the subsequent three years, provided that they satisfy certain conditions. JA Hebei was entitled to these enterprise income tax exemptions and reductions with respect to income generated by its assets acquired during the period from 2005 to 2007. 23 In March 2007, China enacted a new Enterprise Income Tax Law of the PRC, or EIT Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008 and replaced the FEIT Law. The EIT Law imposes a unified income tax rate of 25% on all domestic enterprises and FIEs unless they qualify under certain limited exceptions. The EIT Law provides a transition period to FIEs, during which they are permitted to grandfather their existing preferential income tax treatment until such treatment expires in accordance with its current terms. In general, the EIT Law does not affect the preferential tax treatment enjoyed by JA Hebei during the 5-year transition period. However, the EIT Law and its related implementation rules did not clearly address the application of the transitional preferential policies to assets acquired by JA Hebei through new capital injection made after March 16, 2007, the date of enactment of the EIT Law. If future guidance is issued by the State Taxation of Administration to clarify this issue and it is determined that capital injection made after March 16, 2007 does not qualify for a separate “two plus three” tax holiday, the tax rate of JA Hebei as well as the income tax liability of JA Hebei could increase for 2008, 2009 and 2010. JA Hebei was granted High-Tech Enterprise status by Chinese government, which will entitle JA Hebei to enjoy a preferential tax rate of 15%, instead of the statutory income tax rate of 25%, for two years beginning 2011. The High-Tech Enterprise status and preferential tax treatment will be reviewed by the government every three years. However, we cannot assure you that JA Hebei’s current tax benefits will be extended upon expiration. If these tax benefits cannot be extended or otherwise become unavailable, the effective income tax rate of JA Hebei will increase significantly, and any increase of JA Hebei’s income tax rate in the future could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Various PRC governmental authorities have promulgated a series of laws and regulations to encourage the development of solar energy and other renewable energy, including Renewable Energy Law, Implementation Directive for the Renewable Power Generation Industry, and Medium and Long-Term Development Plan for the Renewable Energy Industry, etc. Under these laws and regulations, financial incentive, such as national funding, preferential loans and tax preferential treatment is provided to the renewable energy industry. However, No assurance can be given that these incentives will not be reduced or eliminated altogether. Any reduction or eliminations of governmental incentive policies will reduce demand for our solar power products and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Dividends we receive from our operating subsidiaries located in the PRC may be subject to PRC withholding tax. The EIT Law provides that a maximum income tax rate of 20% may be applicable to dividends payable to non-PRC investors that are deemed to be “non-resident enterprises,” to the extent such dividends are derived from sources within the PRC, which rate has been reduced to 10% through the implementation regulations. We are a Cayman Islands holding company and substantially all of our income may be derived from dividends we receive from our operating subsidiaries located in China. Thus, dividends paid to us by our subsidiaries in China may be subject to the 10% income tax if we are considered as a “non-resident enterprise” under the EIT Law. If we are required under the EIT Law to pay income tax for any dividends we receive from our subsidiaries, it will materially and adversely affect the amount of dividends, if any, we may pay to our shareholders and ADS holders. We may be deemed a PRC resident enterprise under the EIT Law and be subject to the PRC taxation on our worldwide income. The EIT Law also provides that enterprises established outside of China whose “de facto management bodies” are located in China are considered “resident enterprises” and are generally subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate as to their worldwide income. Under the implementation regulations for the EIT Law, “de facto management body” is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and treasury, and acquisition and disposition of properties and other assets of an enterprise. In addition, a circular issued by the PRC State Administration of Taxation on April 22, 2009 sets out the standards and procedures for recognizing the location of the “effective management” of an enterprise registered outside of the PRC and funded by Chinese enterprises as controlling investors. This circular specifies that certain PRC-invested enterprises will be classified as PRC resident enterprises if the following are located or resident in the PRC: senior management personnel and departments that are responsible for daily production, operation and management; financial and personnel decision making bodies; key properties, accounting books, the company seal, and minutes of board meetings and shareholders’ meetings; and half or more of the senior management or directors having voting rights. Although this circular explicitly provides that the above standards shall apply to enterprises which are registered outside the PRC and funded by Chinese enterprises as controlling investors, it is still uncertain whether such standards under this circular may be cited for reference and be adopted when considering whether our “effective management” is in the PRC or not, and whether we may be considered a resident enterprise under the EIT Law. If we are treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes, we will be subject to PRC tax on our worldwide income at the 25% uniform tax rate, which could have an impact on our effective tax rate and an adverse effect on our net income and results of operations, although dividends distributed from our PRC subsidiaries to us could be exempt from Chinese dividend withholding tax, since such income is exempted under the new EIT Law to a PRC resident recipient. 24 Dividends payable by us to our foreign shareholders and gain on the sale of our ADSs or ordinary shares may become subject to PRC taxes. Under the EIT Law and its implementation regulations, PRC income tax at the rate of 10% is applicable to dividends payable to investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” which do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC, or which have such establishment or place of business but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business, to the extent such dividends have their sources within the PRC. Similarly, any gain realized on the transfer of ADSs or shares by such investors is also subject to 10% PRC income tax if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC. It is unclear whether we may be considered as a “resident enterprise” under the new EIT law. If we are considered a PRC “resident enterprise,” dividends we pay with respect to our ordinary shares or ADSs, or the gain our shareholders may realize from the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, would be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC and be subject to PRC tax. If we are required under the EIT Law to withhold PRC income tax on dividends payable to our non-PRC shareholders who are “non-resident enterprises,” or if our non-PRC shareholders are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, the value of their investment in our ordinary shares or ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. Labor laws in the PRC may adversely affect our results of operations. In June 2007, the PRC government promulgated a new labor law, the Labor Contract Law of the PRC, or the Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. The Labor Contract Law imposes greater liabilities on employers and significantly increases the cost of an employer’s decision to reduce its workforce. Furthermore, it requires certain terminations to be based upon duration of employment and not the merits of employees. In the event we decide to significantly change or decrease our workforce, the Labor Contract Law could adversely affect our ability to enact such changes in a manner that is most advantageous to our business or in a timely and cost effective manner, thus materially and adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident shareholders to personal liability and limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us, or otherwise adversely affect us. In October 2005, SAFE issued a circular concerning foreign exchange regulations on investments by PRC residents in China through special purpose companies incorporated overseas (or “SPV”), or Circular No. 75, and the implementation procedures of such regulations have been further clarified by circular No. 106 issued by the Department of General Affairs of SAFE on May 29, 2007. Circular No. 75 states that, if PRC residents use assets or equity interests in their domestic entities as capital contribution to establish offshore companies or inject assets or equity interests of their PRC entities into offshore companies to raise capital overseas, such PRC residents must register with local SAFE branches with respect to their overseas investments in offshore companies and must also file amendments to their registrations if their offshore companies experience material events, such as changes in share capital, share transfer, mergers and acquisitions, spin-off transactions or use of assets in China to guarantee offshore obligations. We were informed recently that certain shareholders of Jinglong BVI, our largest shareholder, failed to fully comply with the registration requirements of Circular No. 75 and were assessed penalties by local SAFE branches. Although our company and subsidiaries have not been subject to any penalty due to these violations, it is unclear whether these non-compliances will restrict our cross-border investment activities, or limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends to our company. 25 As it is uncertain how SAFE will interpret or implement these circulars, we cannot predict how this circular and other SAFE circulars will affect our business operations or future strategies. For example, we may be subject to more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign currency-denominated borrowings, which may adversely affect our business and prospects. PRC rules on mergers and acquisitions may subject us to sanctions, fines and other penalties and affect our future business growth through acquisition of complementary business. On August 8, 2006, six PRC government and regulatory authorities, including the MOFCOM and the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or CSRC, promulgated a rule entitled Interim Provisions on the Takeover of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Rule, which became effective on September 8, 2006 and was subsequently revised on June 22, 2009. The M&A Rule, among other things, requires that an offshore SPV controlled by PRC residents obtain approval from CSRC prior to publicly listing its securities on an overseas stock market if it is formed with the purpose of listing through acquisitions of PRC domestic entities. We were advised by our PRC counsel that the CSRC approval was not required for our initial public offering and the listing of our ADSs on The Nasdaq Global Market and follow-on offerings. However, we cannot assure you that the relevant PRC governmental agencies, including MOFCOM and CSRC, would reach the same conclusion as our PRC counsel. If CSRC or other PRC regulatory agency subsequently determines that the CSRC’s approval was required for our initial and follow-on offerings and the listing of our ADSs on the Nasdaq Global Market, we may face sanctions by CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies. In such event, these regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our ADSs. The M&A Rule also established additional procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that MOFCOM be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise. In the future, we may grow our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses. Complying with the requirements of the M&A Rule to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from MOFCOM, may delay or inhibit the completion of such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. Failure to comply with PRC regulations regarding the registration requirements for employee stock ownership plans or share option plans may subject the PRC plan participants or us to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. In December 2006, the People’s Bank of China promulgated the Administrative Measures for Individual Foreign Exchange, which set forth requirements for foreign exchange transactions by PRC individuals under either the current account or the capital account. The Implementation Rules of the Administrative Measures for Individual Foreign Exchange, issued on January 5, 2007 by SAFE, specify approval requirements for PRC citizens who are granted shares or share options by an overseas listed company according to its employee stock ownership plan or stock option plan. On March 28, 2007, SAFE promulgated the Processing Guidance on Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plans or Stock Option Plans of Overseas-Listed Companies, or the Share Option Rule. According to the Share Option Rule, if a PRC citizen participates in any employee stock ownership plan or stock option plan of an overseas listed company, a qualified PRC domestic agent or the PRC subsidiaries of such overseas listed company shall, among other things, file, on behalf of such individual, an application with the SAFE to obtain approval for an annual allowance with respect to the purchase of foreign exchange in connection with the share purchase or share option exercise as PRC domestic individuals may not directly use overseas funds to purchase shares or exercise share options. Such PRC citizen’s foreign exchange income received from the sale of shares or dividends distributed by the overseas listed company shall be fully remitted into a collective foreign currency account in the PRC opened and managed by the PRC subsidiaries of the overseas listed company or the PRC agent before distribution to such individual. If we or our PRC option holders fail to comply with these regulations, we or our PRC option holders may be subject to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. 26 In addition, the State Administration of Taxation has issued certain circulars concerning employee share options. Under these circulars, our employees working in China who exercise share options will be subject to PRC individual income tax. Our PRC subsidiaries have obligations to file documents related to employee share options with relevant tax authorities and to withhold individual income taxes of those employees who exercise their share options. If our employees fail to pay or we fail to withhold their income taxes according to relevant laws and regulations, we may face sanctions imposed by the tax authorities or other PRC government authorities. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares and ADSs The market price for our ADSs has been volatile. The market price for our ADSs has been and may continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. From the initial listing of our ADSs on the Nasdaq Global Market on February 7, 2007 to February 7, 2008, the closing prices of our ADSs have ranged from US$16.30 to US$75.43 per ADS. Then from the day after the date of our 3-for-1 ADS split (February 7, 2008) to the date of this annual report, the closing prices of our ADSs have ranged from US$1.8 to US$25.75 per ADS. The last reported trading price of our ADSs on April 21, 2011 was US$6.36 per ADS. The price of our ADSs may continue to fluctuate in response to factors including the following: • announcements of technological or competitive developments; • regulatory developments in our target markets affecting us, our customers, our potential customers or our competitors; • announcements regarding patent litigation or the issuance of patents to us or our competitors; • announcements of studies and reports relating to the conversion efficiencies of our products or those of our competitors; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other photovoltaic technology companies; • addition or departure of our executive officers and key research personnel; • fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and Renminbi; • release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares or ADSs; and • sales or perceived sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. 27 Our most current memorandum and articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could have a material adverse effect on the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Our most current memorandum and articles of association limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our Board of Directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix their designations, powers, preferences, privileges, and relative participating, optional or special rights and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares, in the form of ADS or otherwise. Preferred shares could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. If our Board of Directors decides to issue preferred shares, the price of our ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. Holders of ADSs have fewer rights than shareholders and must act through the depositary to exercise those rights. Holders of ADSs do not have the same rights of our shareholders and may only exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under our most current memorandum and articles of association, the minimum notice period required to convene a general meeting will be ten days. When a general meeting is convened, holders of our ADSs may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit them to withdraw their ordinary shares to cast vote with respect to any specific matter. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to holders of ADSs or carry out their voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to holders of our ADSs in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that holders of our ADSs will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that they can instruct the depositary to vote their ADSs. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, holders of ADSs may not be able to exercise their right to vote and they may lack recourse if their ADSs are not voted as requested. In addition, an ADS holder, under such capacity, will not be able to call a shareholder meeting. Holders of our ADSs may be subject to limitations on transfers of our ADSs. Our ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. ADS holders’ right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to their holdings and they may not receive cash dividends if it is impractical to make them available to them. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to our ADS holders in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary bank will not make rights available to our ADS holders unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act, or exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, our ADS holders may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings. 28 In addition, the depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to our ADS holders the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. Our ADS holders will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares their ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute such property and our ADS holders will not receive such distribution. We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than that under U.S. law, our shareholders may have less protection for their shareholder rights than they would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our most current memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as that from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by our management, our Board of Directors or our controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a U.S. public company. Our shareholders may have difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us. We are a Cayman Islands company and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. A significant portion of our current operations are conducted in China. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for our shareholders to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for our shareholders to enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands or the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. In addition, it is uncertain whether such Cayman Islands or PRC courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands or the PRC against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. 29 We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders. Based on the price of our ADSs, the value of our assets, and the composition of our income and assets, we do not believe that we were a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes for the taxable year ended December 31, 2010. Because the value of our assets for purposes of the PFIC test will generally be determined by reference to the market price of our ADSs or ordinary shares, fluctuations in the market price of the ADSs and ordinary shares may cause us to become a PFIC. While we do not expect to become a PFIC in the current or future taxable years, no assurance can be given because the determination of whether we are a PFIC is a factual determination made annually and because there are uncertainties in the application of the relevant rules. If we were to be classified as a PFIC in any taxable year, a U.S. Holder (as defined in “Taxation — Material U.S. Federal Tax Considerations”) would be subject to special rules generally intended to reduce or eliminate any benefits from the deferral of United States federal income tax that a U.S. Holder could derive from investing in a non-United States corporation that does not distribute all of its earnings on a current basis. Further, if we are classified as a PFIC for any year during which a U.S. Holder holds our ADSs or ordinary shares, we generally will continue to be treated as a PFIC for all succeeding years during which such U.S. Holder holds our ADSs or ordinary shares. For more information see the section titled “Taxation — Material U.S. Federal Tax Considerations — PFIC Considerations”. 