D. Risk Factors Investment in our securities including our ADSs and shares involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the following risks and uncertainties, together with other information contained in this report, before you decide whether to buy or hold our securities. Risks Relating to Our Company and Our Industry Our operating history is short and may not provide you with an adequate basis upon which to evaluate our business and prospects. We were incorporated on May 1, 2006 to acquire our operating subsidiary, Jiangxi LDK Solar, which was incorporated on July 5, 2005. We commenced construction of our first solar wafer manufacturing plant in Xinyu Hi-Tech Industrial Park of Jiangxi province in China in 2005. We completed the installation of our first set of solar wafer production equipment for trial runs in February 2006 and made our first commercial shipment of solar wafers 9 Table of Contents in April 2006. We completed our IPO in June 2007 with our shares represented by ADSs listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Our operating history may be too short to give you a sufficient basis for evaluating our business, financial performance and prospects. We may not be able to achieve similar results or growth in future periods. Accordingly, you should not rely on our results of operations for any prior periods as an indication of our future performance. If we are not able to manage our growth effectively, our results of operations may be adversely affected. In anticipation of the growth in demand for our solar wafers, we have expanded our business operations significantly over the past few years. Although we have revised our expansion plan in light of the current global economic slowdown and crisis in the global financial markets, we still have an expansion plan for the next few years. The success of our business expansion and operational growth will depend upon the general economic environment for the solar industry, our ability to maintain and expand our relationships with customers, suppliers and other third parties, the improvement of our operational and financial systems, enhancement of our internal procedures and controls, increase in our manufacturing capacity and output, and effective recruitment, training and retention of technicians and skilled employees. We cannot assure you that the current global solar markets and prospects will continue to support our expanded production capacity or that our current and planned operations, personnel, systems, internal procedures and controls will be adequate to support our growth. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, successfully execute our business strategies or respond to competitive economic environment and pressures, and our results of operations may be adversely affected. We may develop excess production capacity and, as a result, our profitability may be adversely affected. Our expansion and further expansion plan have been based on the projected market demand for solar wafers relative to the insufficient production capacity in the wafer manufacturing segment of the solar industry over the past years. There has been an industry-wide expansion effort to increase the overall wafer production capacity. In connection with our expansion, we have entered into substantial commitments to purchase polysilicon feedstock over the next few years. As of December 31, 2008, these commitments amounted to approximately $165.2 million in the aggregate, with the purchase price subject to periodical renegotiations. In addition, we had invested approximately $1.1 billion in the construction of our own polysilicon production facilities as of December 31, 2008, and expect to invest approximately an additional $609 million to complete the construction. The aggressive expansion over the years and the continued expansion by us and our competitors of the manufacturing capacity may result in significant excess capacity in the wafer segment or in the overall solar industry and, as a result, prices may decline, our utilization ratio may decrease and our results of operations may be adversely affected. Global supply for PV products may exceed demand, which could cause our wafer prices to decline and adversely affect our margins and net realizable value of our inventories. Our wafer prices are based on a variety of factors, including global market wafer prices, supply and demand conditions, and the terms of our customer contracts, including sales volumes. Over the years, many PV companies have significantly increased their capacity to meet customer demand. The current global economic slowdown, crisis in the global financial markets and the significant decrease in global petroleum prices have further reduced or delayed the general demand for PV products. According to Solarbuzz, wafer prices in general remained steady during the first three quarters of 2008, but declined significantly in the fourth quarter of 2008 due to the global economic slowdown and crisis in the global financial markets, as well as the excessive supply of solar wafers. The declining wafer prices have had a negative impact on both our sales revenue and the carrying value of our inventories. For the years ended December 31, 2008, we recognized a $302.3 million write-down of our inventories to estimated net realizable values resulting from the decline in wafer selling prices. If wafer prices continue to decline and we are unable to lower our costs in line with the price decline, our gross margins will continue to be adversely affected. If wafer prices continue to decline or we are unable to sell all our production, we may incur further substantial inventory write-down to reflect any further reductions in our net realizable value estimates. 10 Table of Contents We depend on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our net sales, and changes in their purchase terms or patterns may cause significant fluctuations or declines in our revenues. We currently sell our multicrystalline wafers to over 30 customers. They are mostly solar cell and module manufacturers, including Q-Cells AG, or Q-Cells, Canadian Solar Inc., or CSI, Solarfun Power Holdings Co., Ltd., or Solarfun, Gintech Energy Corporation, or Gintech, and Neo Solar Power Corporation, or Neo Solar. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008, our five largest customers collectively accounted for approximately 70.2%, 42.7% and 48.6%, respectively, of our net sales. Suntech Power Holdings Co., Ltd., or Suntech, and Solarfun contributed 39.7% and 13.9%, respectively, of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2006. For the year ended December 31, 2007, Solarfun and Q-Cells contributed 12.3% and 10.0%, respectively, of our net sales. For the year ended December 31, 2008, Q-Cells and CSI contributed 20.4%, and 8.2% respectively, of our net sales. We have entered into long-term sales arrangements with some of our major customers, including Hyundai Heavy Industries Co., Ltd., or Hyundai, Solartech Energy Corp., or Solartech Energy, Neo Solar, Q-Cells, Chinalight Solar Co., Ltd., or Chinalight, E-Ton Solar Tech Co., Ltd., or E-Ton, Gintech, General Electric International Inc., or GE Energy, Mosel Vitelic Inc., or Mosel Vitelic, Motech Industries Inc., or Motech, and Solartech Energy. Pursuant to these arrangements we have committed to supply each of them with specific quantities of wafers over the next few years, with some subject to periodic negotiations on prices. In addition, we have entered into a cooperation agreement with Suntech, pursuant to which we have committed to supply to Suntech wafers equal to 40% to 60% of our annual production in each year from 2008 to 2015. Pursuant to this cooperation agreement, we and Suntech have periodically negotiated the specific quantities and prices of wafers to be supplied and, as a result, we have delivered less quantities than provided in the cooperation agreement. We have also entered into framework agreements with other customers that are subject to future quarterly or annual agreements or monthly purchase orders by the parties as to specific terms, including quantity and price. The current global economic slowdown and crisis in the global financial markets have caused a number of our customers to request us to delay our shipments of wafers and certain customers have frequently requested us to re-negotiate the contract price. Any significant deviation from the contract terms on our customers’ part or our inability to negotiate or renegotiate acceptable quantities, prices and delivery terms from time to time with our customers may disrupt our operations and materially adversely affect our financial results. We will continue to rely on a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our net sales for the foreseeable future. Under the current global economic downturn, there can be no assurance that any of these customers will continue to purchase significant quantities of, or any, wafers from us. Some customers have requested us to delay our shipments of wafers, and we had to find alternative customers for these wafers. If this trend continues, or if our customers decide to expand upstream into the solar wafer business, our sales to such customers would be adversely affected. In addition, because of our reliance on a limited number of customers, any of the following events may cause material fluctuations or declines in our net sales and profits: • reductions, delays or cancellations of purchase orders from one or more of our significant customers; • loss of one or more of our significant customers and our failure to identify additional or replacement customers; and • failure of any of our significant customers to make timely payments for our products. If we fail to develop or maintain our customer relationships with these and other customers, or if any of our major customers encounters difficulties in its operations or reduces its purchases of our products, it may be difficult for us to find alternative customers on a timely basis and on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which may have an adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. Current global economic slowdown, crisis in the global financial markets and the volatility of petroleum prices have negatively impacted, and may continue to negatively impact, our business and our ability to obtain necessary financing for our operations. The current global economic slowdown and turmoil in the global financial markets have resulted in a general credit crunch, an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence and increased market volatility. The slowdown of worldwide economy has also caused a rapid slide in petroleum and natural gas prices. In December 2008, the price of oil on the New York Mercantile Exchange fell below $35 per 11 Table of Contents barrel, a decline from the record high above $147 per barrel in July 2008. The decline in conventional energy prices may encourage the use of conventional energy at the expense of the cleaner but higher-cost alternative forms of energy such as the solar power and, therefore, adversely impact our customers’ activity levels and demand for our products. The negative impact of the current global economic slowdown on our business is manifold. For example: • the uncertain economic prospect and tightened credit markets have resulted in a lower demand for our solar wafers, more requests from customers for delay in our wafer shipments, and an increase in our accounts receivable; • the declining wafer prices have caused a decline in our sales revenue, a decline in our profit margin and a write-down of our inventories; and • the delays (voluntary or at our request) or defaults by our suppliers in shipment of our contracted feedstock and equipment have either prolonged our exposure with respect to the prepayments we made to the suppliers or led to provisions that we have to make for doubtful recoveries. The global economic slowdown and financial market turmoil may continue to adversely impact our suppliers and customers and the end-users of the PV products, which may lead to a further decrease in the general demand for our products and a further erosion of their selling prices. The current global financial markets turmoil and the tightening of credit due to the rampant lack of liquidity have also negatively impacted our liquidity and our ability to obtain additional financings. We have significantly scaled back our original expansion plan, not only because of the slowdown of the global economy and its anticipated impact on our solar industry, but also due to the tightened credit market that is making it difficult for us to access affordable financing for the capital expenditure and working capital needs in our expansion plan. We formulated our aggressive wafer production expansion plan and our greenfield polysilicon manufacturing plan during the time when the global economy was going strong and the PV industry growing rapidly. Despite our significant scale-back and slow-down with respect to these projects, we have substantially implemented such expansion and construction plans. We have been able to finance a substantial portion of our wafer production expansion and polysilicon plant construction by relying on short-term bank loans and prepayments from our customers. Although PRC commercial banks have made short-term financings generally available to us, it is almost impossible to secure long-term financings from them for our projects without the project approval of NDRC in China. The current global financial markets crisis and the unavailability of long-term financing in China have adversely impacted, and will continue to adversely impact, our liquidity, capital expenditure financing and working capital. You may find additional information on our liquidity and financial condition in the risk factors entitled “— We require a significant amount of cash to fund our future capital expenditure requirements and working capital needs; if we cannot obtain additional sources of liquidity when we need it, our growth prospects and future profitability may be materially adversely affected” and “— We have substantial existing indebtedness and may incur substantial indebtedness in the future, which could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to generate sufficient cash to satisfy our outstanding and future debt obligations” below as well as “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — B. Liquidity and Capital Resources” in this report. If the current global economic slowdown and financial market crisis continue on a sustained basis, they will materially adversely impact the demand for our products and materially adversely affect our ability to obtain necessary financing for our operations, thereby causing damage to our financial condition and results of operations. We require a significant amount of cash to fund our future capital expenditure requirements and working capital needs; if we cannot obtain additional sources of liquidity when we need it, our growth prospects and future profitability may be materially adversely affected. We require a significant amount of cash to fund our operations. In particular, we will need substantial additional funding to finance the construction of our polysilicon production plant and the expansion of our wafer production capacity, and our working capital requirements, including payments to suppliers to secure our polysilicon feedstock requirements. We will also need cash resources to fund our research and development activities in order to remain competitive on cost and technology. Historically, we have in part relied on substantial short-term bank borrowings and advance payments from customers to finance our working capital requirements. We will need additional debt or equity financing to finance our planned wafer production capacity expansion, 12 Table of Contents construction of our polysilicon facilities and working capital requirements. In addition, future acquisitions, expansions, market changes or other developments may cause us to require additional financing. Our ability to obtain external financing in the future is subject to a number of uncertainties, including: • our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; • general market conditions for financing activities by companies in our industry; • economic, political and other conditions in China and elsewhere; and • development and duration of the current global economic slowdown and financial market crisis. If we are unable to obtain funding in a timely manner or on commercially acceptable terms, or at all, our growth prospects and future profitability may be materially adversely affected. We have substantial existing indebtedness and may incur substantial indebtedness in the future, which could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to generate sufficient cash to satisfy our outstanding and future debt obligations. As of December 31, 2008, our outstanding indebtedness amounted to approximately $1.2 billion, including $400 million of our convertible senior notes we issued in April 2008. We may from time to time incur substantial additional indebtedness. If we or our subsidiaries incur additional debt, the risks that we face as a result of such indebtedness and leverage could intensify. Our substantial existing indebtedness and any increase in the amount of our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to generate sufficient cash. For example, it could: • increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to servicing and repaying indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, dividend payments and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in the businesses and the industries in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to those competitors which have less debt; • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants of such indebtedness, our ability to borrow additional funds; and • increase the cost of additional financing. Our ability to generate sufficient cash to satisfy our outstanding and future debt obligations will depend upon our future operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our anticipated operating expenses or to service our debt obligations as they become due. For the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2007, our net cash outflow from operating activities was $57.1 million and $80.7 million, respectively. Although we recorded a positive net cash flow of $333.1 million from operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2008, we cannot assure you that we will continue to have positive net cash flows from operating activities in the future. If we are unable to service our indebtedness, we will be forced to adopt an alternative strategy that may include actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing existing indebtedness or seeking infusion of equity capital. These strategies, if implemented, may not be instituted on satisfactory terms and may not be effective in addressing the deficiencies as intended. Any of these constraints upon us could materially adversely affect our ability to satisfy our obligations. 13 Table of Contents Our customers may not prepay for their orders. We have required, and continue to require, most of our customers to prepay a portion of the purchase price of their orders. Advance payments from customers increased from $40.0 million in the year ended December 31, 2006 to $208.8 million in the year ended December 31, 2007, and to $744.0 million in the year ended December 31, 2008. Such prepayment arrangements with our customers have historically allowed us to prepay our suppliers with less reliance on borrowings to cover our cash needs for working capital. The current global economic slowdown and financial market crisis have made this practice less likely to be sustainable. Some of our customers have requested a reduction in prepayments, and some others have started to insist on payment upon delivery of goods. Our accounts receivable, however, increased significantly from $40.3 million as of September 30, 2008 to $94.7 million as of December 31, 2008. Should this trend continue, our cash flows and business operations may be materially adversely affected as we may then be forced to raise more cash, due to longer accounts receivable turnover days. Failure to secure sufficient quantities of polysilicon feedstock on commercially reasonable terms could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Solar-grade polysilicon feedstock is an essential raw material in manufacturing our multicrystalline solar wafers. Our operations depend on our ability to procure sufficient quantities of solar-grade polysilicon on a timely basis and on commercially reasonable terms. Polysilicon is also an essential raw material for the semiconductor industry, which requires polysilicon of higher purity than that for the solar industry. The significant growth of the solar wafer industry and the competing demand and buying power of the semiconductor industry have resulted in an industry-wide shortage in solar-grade polysilicon and a significant increase in solar-grade polysilicon prices over the past few years. According to Solarbuzz, spot polysilicon prices fluctuated widely in 2008 from $150 per kilogram to $450 per kilogram with a downward trend toward the year end. Currently, we have polysilicon inventories and supply commitments that we believe will satisfy currently estimated polysilicon requirements during the first half of 2009. However, some of our polysilicon supply agreements are subject to fluctuating market prices or price negotiations with our suppliers. In addition, suppliers may delay or default in their delivery obligations under the supply agreements, as we have disclosed in the risk factor “— There are a limited number of suppliers of virgin polysilicon feedstock and failure or delay by any of our polysilicon suppliers in delivering supplies to us could adversely impact our production and delivery schedule and harm our reputation” below. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to acquire polysilicon in sufficient quantities and on commercially reasonable terms or that we will be able to pass any increased costs of polysilicon to our customers. If we fail to do so, our business and profitability will be adversely affected. There are a limited number of suppliers of virgin polysilicon feedstock and failure or delay by any of our polysilicon suppliers in delivering supplies to us could adversely impact our production and delivery schedule and harm our reputation. Polysilicon manufacturing is a highly concentrated industry and there are only a limited number of virgin polysilicon producers in the world. According to Solarbuzz, the largest five virgin polysilicon producers had a combined production capacity of approximately 66% of the global production capacity of polysilicon in 2008. These virgin polysilicon producers not only provide polysilicon feedstock to the solar industry but are also the sources of polysilicon feedstock for the semiconductor industry. Although a small portion of our polysilicon feedstock consists of virgin polysilicon, the suppliers of our remaining requirements in the form of recyclable polysilicon also rely on the virgin polysilicon producers for their polysilicon raw materials. From time to time we have experienced delays or defaults by some of our polysilicon suppliers in delivering supplies to us. For example, we entered into a supply contract in late 2006 to purchase polysilicon from Technischer Warenhandel Heller and NCA Fortin Inc., as co-sellers, from 2006 to 2011. Pursuant to the terms of the contract, we paid an aggregate of $3.0 million as our deposits and prepayments with respect to the shipments of polysilicon feedstock scheduled for delivery. Technischer Warenhandel Heller and NCA Fortin Inc. eventually failed to consummate the transaction. Although Technischer Warenhandel Heller and NCA Fortin Inc. have refunded all of our deposits and prepayments, we had to replace their committed quantities of polysilicon from other sources. Material or prolonged delays or defaults such as these could adversely impact our production and delivery schedule and harm our reputation. If we fail to develop or maintain our relationships with polysilicon suppliers, or should any of our major suppliers 14 Table of Contents encounter difficulties in its production or shipment of polysilicon feedstock to us, whether due to natural disasters, labor unrest or any other reason, it will be difficult for us to find alternative sources on a timely basis and on commercially reasonable terms. In that event, we may be unable to manufacture and sell our products in the required quantities and on a timely basis. As a result, our production and delivery schedules may be adversely affected and our reputation may be harmed. Our suppliers, particularly virgin polysilicon suppliers, require us to make prepayments from time to time. We make these prepayments, without receiving any collateral, in order to secure stable supply of polysilicon. As of December 31, 2008, our prepayments to polysilicon suppliers amounted to $104.8 million. Some of our suppliers have failed to meet their delivery schedule in the past. In addition, because we have embarked on our own polysilicon manufacturing program, the perceived competition from us may inhibit virgin polysilicon suppliers from supplying us with polysilicon. If our suppliers fail or become unwilling to deliver the polysilicon we have ordered on time or at all and do not return our prepayments, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We recognized a provision for doubtful recoveries of $20.6 million for prepayments to suppliers for the year ended December 31, 2008. In addition, we may not be able to find alternative sources of polysilicon, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In order to secure supplies of polysilicon, we have entered into substantial long-term contractual commitments to purchase polysilicon from various suppliers. As of December 31, 2008, these purchase commitments amounted to approximately $165.2 million. You may find additional information on our purchase commitments in “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — F. Tabular Disclosure of Contractual Obligations” in this report. Our polysilicon purchase commitments are generally on a “take or pay” basis, so that we are required to purchase the contracted supplies of polysilicon even if we are unable to use them. Therefore if our wafer production and sales and polysilicon requirements do not grow as expected, these purchase commitments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Failure to complete our polysilicon production plant and bring it up to full operation within budget and on schedule could adversely affect our results of operations and our business expansion strategies. We commenced the construction of our polysilicon production plant in August 2007. This plant is located near our current solar wafer manufacturing facilities in Xinyu Hi-Tech Industrial Park. Our polysilicon production plant consists of two factories, one with an estimated annual installed polysilicon production capacity of 15,000 metric tons and the other with an estimated annual installed polysilicon production capacity of 1,000 metric tons. We completed the first production run in the 1,000-metric-ton factory in January 2009 and completed equipment installation for an annualized polysilicon production capacity of 5,000 metric tons with respect to the 15,000-metric-ton factory. Our total construction cost for the polysilicon plant incurred as of December 31, 2008 was approximately $1.1 billion. We estimate that an additional amount of approximately $609 million is required to complete construction of the polysilicon plant. We may face cost overruns if the actual cost exceeds our budget. We expect to produce approximately between 2,000 and 3,000 metric tons of polysilicon in 2009. In addition, we have to largely rely on contractors, consultants, managers and technicians that we have recently hired or will hire from the industry to construct, complete and operate this plant. We also rely on manufacturing equipment that we have contracted to import for our polysilicon production operations. In addition, polysilicon production is a capital intensive business. We have expended and will continue to expend significant financial and other resources in order to construct, start-up, test-run and ramp up our new line of business. Apart from the risks described above, our ability to successfully construct and ramp up our polysilicon production plant is subject to various other risks and uncertainties, including: • the need to procure additional equipment at reasonable cost and on a timely basis; • the need to raise additional funds to finance the construction and ramp-up of the polysilicon plant, which we may be unable to obtain on reasonable terms or at all; • construction delays, delays in equipment deliveries and cost overruns; • our ability to install and implement the trichlorosilane, or TCS, and hydrogen chloride, or HCI, facilities and closed-loop systems for each of our polysilicon manufacturing factories; 15 Table of Contents • difficulties in recruiting and training additional skilled employees, including technicians and managers at different levels; • diversion of significant management attention and other resources; and • delays or denials of required approvals, including environmental approvals, for our land acquisition and plant construction by relevant government authorities. If we fail to complete the construction of our polysilicon production plant in time or at all, or fail to make it operational up to its designed capacity or at all, or if the construction and ramp-up costs significantly exceed our original budget, our results of operations will be materially adversely affected and our business expansion and low-cost production strategies will be materially hampered. We may not succeed in producing polysilicon cost-effectively. We do not have operating experience in polysilicon production and may, therefore, face significant operational challenges in our polysilicon production. The technology used to manufacture polysilicon is complex, requires costly equipment and is continuously being modified in an effort to improve yields and product performance. Microscopic impurities such as dust and other contaminants, difficulties in the manufacturing process, disruptions in the supply of utilities or defects in the key materials and tools used to manufacture polysilicon could interrupt manufacturing, reduce yields or cause a portion of the polysilicon unusable for our wafer production. If we are unable to build our polysilicon production capability on a timely basis, or if we face technological difficulties in our production of polysilicon, we may be unable to achieve cost-effective production of polysilicon to satisfy our wafer production needs. Our effective capacity and ability to produce high volumes of polysilicon depend on the cycle time for each batch of polysilicon. We may encounter problems in our manufacturing process or facilities as a result of, among other things, production failures, construction delays, human error, equipment malfunction or process contamination, all of which could seriously harm our operations. We may experience production delays if any modifications we make in the manufacturing process to shorten cycles are unsuccessful. Moreover, any failure to achieve acceptable production level and cost may cause our wafers not to be competitively priced, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The manufacture of polysilicon presents operational difficulties and dangers which could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Production of polysilicon requires the use of volatile materials and chemical reactions sensitive to temperature, pressure and external controls to maintain safety and provide commercial production yields. For example, in the production of polysilicon we plan to use TCS, which is a type of chlorosilane gas that, when purified, can be highly combustible upon contact with air and is therefore potentially destructive and extremely dangerous if mishandled or used in uncontrolled circumstances. The occurrence of a catastrophic event involving chlorosilane gas as a result of a natural disaster or human error or otherwise at one of our polysilicon production facilities could threaten, disrupt or destroy a significant portion or all of our polysilicon production capacity at such facility for a significant period of time. Additionally, our polysilicon production facilities, in particular, are highly reliant on our ability to maintain temperatures and pressure at appropriate levels, the availability of adequate electricity and our ability to control the application of such electricity. Accordingly, mistakes in operating our equipment or an interruption in the supply of electricity at our production facilities could result in substantial shortfalls in production and could reduce our production capacity for a significant period of time. Damage from any such events or disruptions may not be adequately covered by insurance, and could also damage our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 16 Table of Contents We may not be able to complete our hydrogenation process and in-house TCS production facilities within our expected timeframe and budget, or at all, and in-house TCS production may not be more cost-efficient than purchasing TCS from third party suppliers. TCS is one of the main and most costly raw materials in the production of polysilicon. We intend to reduce costs of producing polysilicon by producing TCS internally. We are constructing TCS production facilities on the site of our polysilicon production plant, which are designed to meet the top-up requirement in our closed-loop polysilicon production process. However, the production of TCS is difficult and requires strict controls over the management of raw materials and over the production process itself. We have no previous experience in the production of TCS. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will complete our TCS production facilities within the expected timeframe and budget, or at all, or that our own production of TCS will be more cost-efficient than purchasing TCS from third party suppliers. Any failure to complete our TCS production facilities may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to significantly increase our wafer production capacity or output in order to increase our sales and gain additional market share. We have significantly increased our wafer production capacity and output over the years in order to meet the growing demand of our customers. As of December 31, 2008, we had an annual wafer production capacity of approximately 1.46 GW. All of our wafer production facilities were operating at close to full capacity up to the end of 2008. Our present strategy includes a measured expansion of our wafer production capacity. To accommodate such expansion plan, we have acquired additional land adjacent to our current production site at Xinyu Hi-Tech Industrial Park and are constructing additional manufacturing facilities on the acquired land. Our expansion plan requires a substantial increase in our wafer production and ancillary equipment. We have entered into contracts to purchase additional equipment that is expected to be sufficient for our planned multicrystalline wafer production capacity expansion in 2009. If any of our equipment manufacturers fails to deliver, or delays its delivery of, our equipment for any reason, the implementation of our expansion plan may be adversely affected. In addition, there is a limited supply of the principal wafer manufacturing equipment we use and we may not be able to replace our providers for the required equipment at reasonable costs and on a timely basis to implement our expansion plan. We cannot assure you that we will be able to implement the business expansion plan for our wafer production on a timely basis or at all. Our ability to successfully implement the business expansion plan for our wafer production to establish additional manufacturing capacity and to increase our output and sales is subject to various risks and uncertainties, including: • the need to procure additional wafer production equipment at reasonable cost and on a timely basis; • the need to procure sufficient supplies of polysilicon feedstock, consumables and other materials at reasonable cost and on a timely basis; • the need to raise additional funds to finance our purchase of additional polysilicon feedstock and equipment and the construction of additional manufacturing facilities, which we may be unable to obtain on reasonable terms or at all; • construction delays and cost overruns; • difficulties in recruiting and training additional skilled employees, including technicians and managers at different levels; • diversion of significant management attention and other resources; and • delays or denials of required approvals for our land acquisition and plant construction, including environmental approvals, by relevant government authorities. Our wafer production expansion plan contemplates a significant increase in production capacity. As we disclosed in the risk factors entitled “— We may develop excess production capacity and, as a result, our profitability may be adversely affected” and “— Global supply for PV products may exceed demand, which could cause our wafer prices to decline and adversely affect our margins and net realizable value of our inventories” 17 Table of Contents above, we cannot assure you that we can successfully implement our expansion plan or manage such an expanded capacity. If we fail, or encounter significant delays in our efforts, to establish or successfully utilize additional manufacturing capacity or to increase our manufacturing output, we will be unable to increase our sales and capture additional market share, and our results of operations will be adversely affected. We do not yet have NDRC approval for the full capacity of our polysilicon production plant and failure to obtain such approval could adversely affect our growth and profitability. We have obtained approval from the National Development and Reform Commission, or NDRC, in China to produce with respect to a portion of our planned aggregate annual production capacity at our polysilicon production plant and our wafer production facilities. We intend to apply for approval from NDRC for an additional annual production capacity in line with our expansion plan. Such approval is required before we can increase our investment to construct the additional production capacity and commence construction of such facilities. If we are not able to obtain such approval, we will not be able to achieve our planned annual polysilicon production capacity of 16,000 metric tons, which could delay our expansion and could adversely affect our growth and profitability. Reduction or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives for the solar power industry could cause demand for our products to decline, thus adversely affecting our business prospects and results of operations. Growth of the solar power market, particularly for on-grid applications, depends largely on the availability and size of government subsidies and economic incentives. At present, the cost of solar power substantially exceeds the cost of conventional power provided by electric utility grids in many locations around the world. Various governments have used different policy initiatives to encourage or accelerate the development and adoption of solar power and other renewable energy sources. Renewable energy policies are in place in the European Union, most notably Germany, certain countries in Asia, including China, Japan and South Korea, and many of the states in Australia and the United States. Examples of government-sponsored financial incentives include capital cost rebates, feed-in tariffs, tax credits, net metering and other incentives to end-users, distributors, system integrators and manufacturers of solar power products to promote the use of solar power in both on-grid and off-grid applications and to reduce dependency on conventional forms of energy. Governments may decide to reduce or eliminate these economic incentives for political, financial or other reasons. Government subsidies have been reduced in a few countries including Spain and may be further reduced or eliminated in the future. Reductions in, or eliminations of, government subsidies and economic incentives before the solar power industry reaches a sufficient scale to be cost-effective in a non-subsidized marketplace could reduce demand for our products and adversely affect our business prospects and results of operations. In addition, reductions in, or eliminations of, government subsidies and economic incentives may cause the prices for the products of our customers to decline and we may in turn face increased pressure to reduce the sale price of our wafers. To the extent any price decline cannot be offset by further reduction of our costs, our profit margin will suffer. We operate in a competitive market against players with greater resources and more advanced technologies and we may not be able to compete successfully. The solar wafer manufacturing market is highly competitive. Our competitors include international players such as affiliates of BP plc, or BP Solar, Deutsche Solar AG, a unit of SolarWorld AG, or Deutsche Solar, Ersol Solar Energy AG, or Ersol, Evergreen Solar Inc., or Evergreen Solar, Green Energy Technology, Inc., or Green Energy, JFE Steel Corporation, or JFE, Kyocera Corporation, or Kyocera, M.SETEK Co. Ltd., or M.SETEK, PV Crystalox Solar AG, or PV Crystalox, Renewable Energy Corporation ASA, or REC, Sino-American Silicon Products Inc., or Sino-American Silicon, Sumitomo Mitsubishi Silicon Corporation, or SUMCO, as well as companies located in China such as Glory Silicon Energy Co., Ltd, or Glory Silicon, Jiangsu Shunda PV-Tech Co., Ltd., or Shunda, Jinggong P-D Shaoxing Solar Energy Technology Co., Ltd., or Jinggong P-D, Jinglong Industry and Commerce Group., Ltd., or Jinglong, ReneSola Ltd., or Renesola, Solargiga Energy Holdings Limited, or Solargiga, and Tianwei Yingli New Energy Resources Co., Ltd., or Tianwei Yingli, and Trina Solar Limited. Recently, upstream polysilicon manufacturers as well as downstream PV cell makers have also started to expand into wafer production business, such as MEMC Electronic Materials, Inc., or MEMC, Motech, NorSun AS, or NorSun, Q-Cells, Wacker 18 Table of Contents Chemie AG, or Wacker, and Wacker Schott Solar GmbH, or Wacker Schott Solar. Many of our current and potential competitors have a longer operating history, better name recognition, greater resources, larger customer base, better access to polysilicon feedstock and greater economies of scale than we do. In addition, most of our competitors are integrated players in the solar industry that also engage in the production of virgin polysilicon, PV cells and/or modules. Their business models may give them competitive advantages as these integrated players place less reliance on the upstream suppliers and/or downstream customers in the value chain. A number of our customers and suppliers are also our competitors. We currently have no plans to expand into the production of PV cells or modules, and we have entered into non-competition agreements with some of our customers, pursuant to which we have agreed not to engage in the production of solar cells or modules based on current wafer technology for approximately 10 years. Furthermore, due to the global economic slowdown and global financial crisis, the competition within our industry has intensified. The key barriers to entry into our industry at present consist of access to supplies of solar-grade polysilicon, availability of financing and availability of various production equipment, such as ingot-producing directional solidification system furnaces, or DSS furnaces, and wafering equipment. If these barriers disappear or become more easily surmountable, new competitors may successfully and more easily enter our industry, resulting in loss of our market share and increased price competition. We also compete with alternative solar technologies. Some companies have spent significant resources in the research and development of proprietary solar technologies that may eventually produce PV products at costs similar to, or lower than, those of multicrystalline wafers without compromising product quality. For example, they are developing or currently producing PV products based on thin-film PV materials, which require significantly less polysilicon to produce than multicrystalline solar products. These alternative PV products may cost less than those based on multicrystalline technologies while achieving the same level of conversion efficiency. Our founder, chairman, chief executive officer and controlling shareholder, Mr. Xiaofeng Peng, in his personal capacity, and his family members are engaged in certain alternative energy projects, including a project involving thin-film technology. In addition, Mr. Peng and his family may invest or otherwise participate in their personal capacity in other alternative energy projects, such as projects involving solar thermal, wind energy and biofuels. We have decided not to enter into the thin film module production. The solar power market in general also competes with other sources of renewable energy and conventional power generation. If prices for conventional and other renewable energy sources decline, or if these sources enjoy greater policy support than solar power, the solar power market could suffer and our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for our production equipment and consumables, and failure or delay by any of them in delivering equipment or consumables to us could adversely impact our production. We rely on a limited number of equipment suppliers for all of our principal manufacturing equipment and spare parts, including our DSS furnaces, squarers that we use to cut multicrystalline ingots into smaller blocks, wafering wire saws that we use to slice these blocks into wafers and polysilicon reactors and converters that produce polysilicon with solar-grade purity. In addition, we rely on a limited number of suppliers for the consumables, such as crucibles and slurry, that we use in our wafer production. Our equipment suppliers include Chemical Design Inc., or CDI, GT Solar Incorporated, or GT Solar, Applied Materials, Inc., or Applied Materials, JYT Corporation, Meyer Burger AG, or Meyer Burger, and Sinocon Machinery Company. These suppliers have supplied most of our current equipment and spare parts, and we will also rely on them to provide a substantial portion of the principal manufacturing equipment and spare parts contemplated in our expansion program including polysilicon production. If we fail to develop or maintain our relationships with these and other equipment or consumables suppliers, or should any of our major equipment or consumables suppliers encounter difficulties in the manufacturing or shipment of its equipment or consumables to us, including due to natural disasters or otherwise fail to supply equipment or consumables according to our requirements, it will be difficult for us to find alternative providers for such equipment or consumables on a timely basis and on commercially reasonable terms. For example, in the first quarter of 2008, we experienced delays in the shipments of certain wafer production equipment, and such delays adversely affected the implementation of our expansion plan and our production schedule. 19 Table of Contents We have entered into agreements to purchase some of our key equipment and consumables from domestic suppliers. In particular, we have entered into an agreement with JYT Corporation to purchase 580 DSS furnaces for multicrystalline ingot production, which will be used for our wafer facility expansion. JYT Corporation has limited experience in producing DSS furnaces. To date, we have taken delivery of 61 DSS furnaces from JYT Corporation. Although we believe the domestic DSS furnaces we have purchased and have contracted to purchase are of similar quality as those we have sourced from foreign suppliers, we cannot assure that these locally made DSS furnaces and crucibles will perform at similar quality and reliability levels, and that the wafers we produce using such equipment and consumables will be of same quality. In the event that our equipment and crucibles lead to defective or substandard wafers, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we are unable to fulfill our commitments to customers or customer orders on a timely basis, we may lose customers, our reputation may be damaged, and we may face penalties for breach of contracts. We have experienced delays in fulfilling purchase orders from some of our customers due to shortages in supplies of polysilicon feedstock and constraints in our production capacity. For example, during the first quarter of 2007, our production was interrupted because we temporarily shut down our DSS furnaces to install safety kits provided by GT Solar, manufacturer of such DSS furnaces. In early 2008, we also experienced delays in the delivery of our products due to logistics disruptions as a result of the snow storms in China. In addition, our ability to meet existing contractual commitments to our customers depends on the successful and timely implementation of our expansion plan. If we are unable to fulfill our commitments to customers or customer orders on a timely basis, we may lose our customers and our reputation may be damaged. Moreover, our contracts with our customers sometimes provide for specified monetary damages or penalties for non-delivery or failure to meet delivery schedules or product specifications. If any of our customers invokes these clauses against us, we may need to defend against the relevant claims, which could be time-consuming and expensive. We may be found liable under these clauses and be required to pay damages. We are subject to several securities class action lawsuits resulting from allegations of accounting problems made by our former financial controller and, we are unable to quantify their eventual impact, if any, on us. These lawsuits or any similar or other allegations, lawsuits or proceedings in the future could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and reputation and may cause loss of business. In October 2007, our former finance controller, Charley Situ, alleged that we incorrectly reported our inventories of silicon feedstock. As a result of Mr. Situ’s allegations, several securities class action lawsuits were filed against us and several of our current officers and directors during October 2007 in the U.S. District Courts in the Northern District of California and the Southern District of New York. Those actions have been consolidated into a single action, pending in the Northern District of California, entitled In re LDK Solar Sec. Litig., Case No. C07-05182 WHA. The complaints seek relief on behalf of a class of persons who purchased our securities from June 1, 2007 to October 7, 2007 and allege that we overstated our inventory, among other things. We believe the allegations in the securities lawsuits are without merit and filed motions to dismiss the complaints in April 2008. On May 29, 2008, the United States District Court Northern District of California denied our motions to dismiss. We filed a motion for reconsideration on June 13, 2008 but the motion was denied again by the court on July 14, 2008. We filed an additional motion to dismiss counts against certain of the individual defendants on July 21, 2008. On August 21, 2008, the plaintiffs conceded to the dismissal of all claims against Jiangxi LDK Solar and certain claims against two individual directors. On January 28, 2009, the court issued an order to approve a class of all persons who purchased our ADSs, call options for our ADSs or sold put options for our ADSs during the class period of June 1, 2007 through October 7, 2007. We plan to continue to vigorously defend these lawsuits. In addition, several of our officers and directors are defendants in another lawsuit, pending in California Superior Court, Santa Clara County, entitled Sean Coonerty v. Xiaofeng Peng, et al., Case No. 108CV103758. This derivative lawsuit alleges claims of breach of fiduciary duty and unjust enrichment based on the same allegations contained in the securities lawsuit, repeating Mr. Situ’s allegations that the feedstock inventory was overstated, and seeks damages in an unspecified amount on behalf of our company. This lawsuit is at its early stage, and our officers and directors have not responded to the complaint. 20 Table of Contents In response to Mr. Situ’s allegations, in October 2007, we formed an internal committee to investigate the allegations and conduct an immediate physical inventory count of our polysilicon materials. We found no material discrepancies as compared to our financial records. We believe that Mr. Situ’s allegations have no merit. Additionally, the independent directors of our audit committee conducted an independent investigation into the allegations made by Mr. Situ. The independent investigation was primarily conducted by our audit committee’s independent counsel, a major U.S. law firm, and forensic accountants from a “big four” independent accounting firm that was separate from our external auditors, as well as independent experts in the evaluation of silicon feedstock and the production of multicrystalline solar wafers. The independent investigation found no material errors in our stated silicon inventory quantities as of August 31, 2007, and concluded that Mr. Situ’s allegations of an inventory discrepancy were incorrect because he had not taken into account all locations where we stored our silicon feedstock. The independent investigation further concluded that we were using each of our various types of silicon feedstock in the production of our multicrystalline solar wafers, and that a provision for obsolete or excess silicon feedstock was not required. It is not possible for us to reasonably estimate the amount of loss, if any, we would incur in the event of an unfavorable outcome from the resolution of this litigation. We may be involved in similar or other allegations, litigations or legal or administrative proceedings in the future. Any such future allegations, lawsuits or proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business operations and adversely affect the market prices of our ADSs. Our business depends on the continued services of our executive officers and key personnel and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our success depends on the continued services of our executive officers and key personnel, in particular Mr. Xiaofeng Peng, our founder, chairman and chief executive officer. We do not maintain key-man life insurance on any of our executive officers and key personnel. If one or more of our executive officers and key personnel are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them readily, if at all. As a result, our business may be severely disrupted and we may have to incur additional expenses in order to recruit and retain new personnel. In addition, if any of our executives joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose some of our customers. Each of our executive officers and key personnel has entered into an employment agreement with us that contains confidentiality and non-competition provisions. However, if any dispute arises between our executive officers or key personnel and us, we cannot assure you, in light of uncertainties associated with the PRC legal system, that these agreements could be enforced in China where most of our executive officers and key personnel reside and hold most of their assets. You may find additional information in the risk factor entitled “— Risks Relating to Business Operations in China — The uncertain legal environment in China could have a negative impact on our business and prospects and also limit the legal protections available to you” below. In addition, our founder, chairman, chief executive officer and controlling shareholder, Mr. Peng, in his personal capacity, and his family members are engaged in certain alternative energy projects, including a project involving thin-film technology. Mr. Peng and his family may invest or otherwise participate in their personal capacity in other alternative energy projects, such as projects involving solar thermal, wind energy and biofuels. To the extent that Mr. Peng devotes significant time to any such projects, it may reduce his time and services devoted to our company as chairman and chief executive officer, which could materially adversely affect our business. You may find additional information in “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees — A. Directors and Senior Management” in this report. Our principal shareholder, Mr. Xiaofeng Peng, has substantial control over our company and his interests may not be aligned with the interests of our shareholders; Mr. Peng is engaged in a thin-film solar project and has pledged a significant portion of his equity interests in our company to finance his investment in the project and may pledge or sell additional equity in our company for such purpose. Mr. Peng, our founder, chairman and chief executive officer, currently beneficially owns, through LDK New Energy Holding Limited, or LDK New Energy, his wholly owned British Virgin Islands company, 75,585,796 of our shares, representing approximately 66.8% of our outstanding share capital. As such, Mr. Peng will have substantial control over our business, including decisions regarding mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors, dividend policy and other significant corporate actions. Mr. Peng may take 21 Table of Contents actions that are not in the best interest of our company or our shareholders and other securities holders. For example, this concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our ADSs. On the other hand, if Mr. Peng is in favor of any of these actions, these actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders, including you and those who invest in our ADSs. Mr. Peng, in his personal capacity, and his family members are engaged in certain alternative energy projects, including a project involving thin-film solar technology. LDK New Energy is the beneficial owner of all of the equity interest of this thin-film solar company. LDK New Energy has obtained loan facilities from financial and banking institutions to finance its investment in the thin-film solar project. These financing arrangements have been so structured that LDK New Energy would be required to pledge additional shares or other collateral if the market value of the pledged shares does not meet specified levels. The decline of the closing prices of our shares on the New York Stock Exchange during the past months has triggered a series of margin calls. As of the date of this report, LDK New Energy has pledged up to 45,000,000 of our shares to secure such loan facilities. You may find additional information under “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — A. Major Shareholders” in this report. Mr. Peng may from time to time obtain additional loans that are secured by additional shares in our company, or sell shares in our company, to finance the thin-film solar project or for other purposes. The continuation and/or deterioration of the current global economic slowdown and financial market crisis could trigger additional margin calls for these loan facilities, and failure or delay by Mr. Peng in promptly responding to such margin calls could result in the sale or other disposition of some or all of these pledged shares and potentially a change of control of our company as a consequence. If solar power is not adopted for wide commercial application, our revenues may decline and we may be unable to sustain our profitability. The solar power market is at an early stage of development and the extent of acceptance of solar power technology and products is uncertain. Many factors may affect the viability of wide commercial adoption and application of solar power technology, including: • cost-effectiveness, performance and reliability of solar power technology and products compared to conventional and other renewable energy sources and products; • availability of government subsidies and economic incentives to support the development of the solar power industry; • success of, or increased government support for, other alternative energy generation technologies, such as fuel cells, wind power, hydroelectric power and biomass energy; • fluctuations in economic and market conditions that affect the viability of renewable energy sources, such as increases or decreases in the prices of oil and other fossil fuels; • deregulation of the electric power industry and the broader energy industry; and • levels of capital expenditures by end-users of solar energy products, which tend to decrease when economic growth slows. Market data on the solar power industry is not as readily available as that on other more established industries where trends can be assessed more reliably from data gathered over a longer period of time. If solar power technology proves unsuitable for wide commercial adoption and application or if demand for solar power products fails to develop sufficiently, we may not be able to grow our business or generate sufficient revenues to sustain our profitability. Technological changes in the solar power industry could render our products uncompetitive or obsolete, which could reduce our market share and cause our net sales and profits to decline. The solar power industry is characterized by evolving technologies and standards. These technological evolutions and developments place increasing demands on the improvement of our products, such as higher PV efficiency and larger and thinner wafers. Other companies may devise production technologies that enable them to 22 Table of Contents produce crystalline wafers that could yield higher PV conversion efficiencies at a lower cost than our products. Some of our competitors are developing alternative and competing solar technologies that may require significantly less silicon than crystalline solar cells and modules, or no silicon at all. Technologies developed or adopted by others may prove more advantageous than ours for commercialization of solar products and may render our products obsolete. For example, thin-film solar technology is being developed as an alternative method of producing solar power products as compared to our crystalline wafer-based solar technology and products. In addition, further developments in competing polysilicon production technologies may result in lower manufacturing costs or higher product performance than those achieved from Siemens processes, including the one we employ. As a result, we may need to invest significant resources in research and development to maintain our market position, keep pace with technological advances in the solar power industry and effectively compete in the future. Our failure to further refine and enhance our products or to keep pace with evolving technologies and industry standards could cause our products to become uncompetitive or obsolete, which could in turn reduce our market share and cause our net sales and profits to decline. Unexpected equipment failures or accidents, including the release of hazardous materials, may lead to production curtailments or shutdowns, personal injuries or damage to properties. Our wafer manufacturing and polysilicon production processes use hazardous equipment, such as reactors, DSS furnaces, squarers and wire saws. Such equipment requires skills and experience for safe operation. We could experience events such as equipment failures, explosions or fires due to employee errors, equipment malfunctions, accidents, interruptions in electricity or water cooling supplies, natural disasters or other causes. In addition, such events could cause damage to properties, personal injuries or even deaths. As a result, we may in the future experience production curtailments or shutdowns or periods of reduced production, which would negatively affect our results of operations. In addition, our polysilicon operations will involve the use, handling, generation, processing, storage, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials, which may result in fires, explosions, spills and other unexpected or dangerous accidents causing personal injuries or death, property damage, environmental damage and business interruption. Any such event could result in civil lawsuits or regulatory enforcement proceedings, which in turn could lead to significant liabilities. Our strategy includes possible alliances and acquisitions and our failure to successfully implement this strategy could have a material adverse effect on our business. As part of our strategy, we intend to consider entering into strategic acquisitions and investments and establishing strategic alliances with third parties in the solar industry. For example, in January 2008, we acquired 33.5% of Jiangxi Sinoma, a Xinyu-based crucibles manufacturer, from Xinyu Chengdong Investment and Construction Co., Ltd. for the consideration of approximately Rmb 16.8 million. In April 2009, we formed a joint venture with Q-Cells to focus on solar power generation systems and the market development of such systems. We may engage in similar or other acquisitions and investments that will complement our expansion strategies. Strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances with third parties could subject us to a number of risks, including risks associated with sharing proprietary information and loss of control of operations that are material to our business. Moreover, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances may be expensive to implement and subject us to the risk of non-performance by a counterparty, which may in turn lead to monetary losses that may materially adversely affect our business. Product defects could result in increased costs, damage to our reputation and loss of revenues and market share. Our products may contain defects that are not detected until they have been shipped or installed. For example, in July 2006, we had sales returns of over 7,000 pieces of improperly cleaned wafers due to the malfunction of our automated cleaning system and the limited operating experience of our employees. In 2007 and 2008, we recorded an inventory write-down of $4.2 million and $9.7 million, respectively, due to defects identified in certain of our wafers. In the ordinary course of our business, we also encounter periodic sales returns due to non-conformity with customers’ specifications or product defects. In each case, we are required to replace our products promptly. Product defects and the possibility of product defects could cause significant damage to our market reputation and reduce 23 Table of Contents our product sales and market share. If we cannot successfully maintain the consistency and quality throughout our production process, this will result in substandard quality or performance of our wafers, including their reduced PV efficiency and higher wafer breakage. If we deliver solar wafers with defects, or if there is a perception that our products are of substandard quality, we may incur substantially increased costs associated with replacements of wafers, our credibility and market reputation will be harmed and sales of our wafers may be adversely affected. We are subject to the management report and auditor attestation report requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and investor confidence and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely affected. We, as a public company, are subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the related SEC rules require, beginning with our fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, that we evaluate the effectiveness, as of the end of each fiscal year, of our internal control over financial reporting and include in our annual reports on Form 20-F for each fiscal year (i) a report of our management on our internal control over financial reporting that contains, among other things, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of the most recent fiscal year, including a statement whether or not internal control over financial reporting is effective and (ii) the opinion of our registered public accounting firm, either unqualified or adverse, as to whether we maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of the end of such fiscal year. Our management and auditors are not permitted to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective if there are one or more “material weaknesses” in our internal control over financial reporting, as defined in rules of the SEC and the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or the PCAOB. Our management or our auditors may conclude that our efforts to remediate the problems identified were not successful or that otherwise our internal control over financial reporting is not effective. This could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our reporting processes, which could adversely impact the market price of our ADSs. We will need to incur significant costs and use significant management and other resources in order to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In the past, we had certain deficiencies in our internal controls. For example, in the course of auditing our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2006, our independent registered public accounting firm noted and communicated to us a significant deficiency and other weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. The significant deficiency identified by our independent registered public accounting firm was that our chief financial officer joined us in August 2006 and that we did not previously have any personnel who were familiar with U.S. GAAP. We did not have sufficient personnel with adequate expertise to ensure that we can produce financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP on a timely basis. Following the identification of this significant deficiency and other weaknesses, we have adopted steps to address them and to improve our internal control over financial reporting generally. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and investor confidence and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely affected. If we are unable to attract, train and retain technicians and a skilled labor force, our business may be materially adversely affected. Our continued success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, train and retain technicians and a skilled labor force for our business. Recruiting and retaining capable technicians, particularly those with expertise in the solar power industry, are vital to our success. Our principal operations are located at Xinyu city of Jiangxi province, a relatively less developed region compared to coastal cities in China. Our location adds difficulties to our recruiting efforts. In addition, there exists substantial competition for qualified technicians in the solar power industry, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain technicians. Neither can we assure you that we will be able to recruit, train and retain skilled workers. If we fail to attract and retain qualified employees, our business and prospects may be materially adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents Fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our business. A significant portion of our sales is denominated in Renminbi. Our costs and capital expenditures are largely denominated in U.S. dollars and euros. Therefore, fluctuations in currency exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in exchange rates, particularly among the U.S. dollar, Renminbi and euro, affect our gross and net profit margins and could result in foreign exchange and operating losses. Our financial statements are expressed in U.S. dollars but the functional currency of our principal operating subsidiaries, Jiangxi LDK Solar, Jiangxi LDK PV Silicon Technology Co., Ltd., or Jiangxi LDK Silicon, and Jiangxi LDK Solar Polysilicon Co., Ltd., or Jiangxi LDK Polysilicon, is Renminbi. The value of your investment in our ADSs and other securities will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi. In addition, to the extent we hold assets denominated in U.S. dollars, including the net proceeds to us from our various offerings of securities, any appreciation of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar could result in a charge to our income statement and a reduction in the value of our U.S. dollar denominated assets. On the other hand, if we decide to convert our Renminbi amounts into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our shares or ADSs or for other business purposes, including payments to service our convertible senior notes and other foreign debt, a decline in the value of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar could reduce the U.S. dollar equivalent amounts of the Renminbi we convert. In addition, a depreciation of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar could reduce the U.S. dollar equivalent amounts of our financial results, the value of your investment in our company and the dividends we may pay in the future, if any, all of which may have a material adverse effect on the price of our ADSs. We incurred a net foreign currency exchange loss of $1.3 million and $1.7 million during the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2007, respectively, and we recorded a net foreign currency exchange gain of $14.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. We cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations and may incur additional net foreign currency losses in the future. During 2007 and 2008, we entered into certain foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce the effect of our foreign exchange exposure. However, we cannot assure you that such hedging activities will be effective in managing our foreign exchange risk exposure. Compliance with environmental and safety regulations is expensive, and noncompliance may result in adverse publicity and potentially significant monetary damages and fines or suspension of our business operations. We are required to comply with all national and local regulations regarding protection of the environment. Compliance with environmental regulations is expensive. In addition, if more stringent regulations are adopted by the PRC government in the future, the costs of compliance with PRC environmental protection regulations could increase. Upon the completion of our polysilicon production facilities, we will use, generate, store and discharge toxic, volatile and otherwise hazardous chemicals and wastes in our research and development and production processes, and we are subject to regulations and periodic monitoring by local environmental protection authorities and are required to comply with all PRC national and local environmental protection laws and regulations. Our polysilicon plant will use hazardous chemicals in the production process. Under PRC environmental regulations, we are required to obtain a safety appraisal approval before the construction of our polysilicon production facilities, and we are further required to undergo safety examination and obtain approval with relevant governmental authorities after we have completed the installation of our manufacturing equipment and before the polysilicon production plant commences commercial production. We must also register the hazardous chemicals to be used in the production process with the relevant authorities and to obtain safety permits, which include a permit for the storage and use of hazardous chemicals and a permit for the use of atmospheric pressure containers. We have not yet obtained all of the necessary approvals and permits for our polysilicon production plant and multicrystalline wafer production facilities currently under construction, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these approvals and permits upon completion of the construction or commencement of commercial production on a timely basis or at all. The relevant governmental authorities have the right to impose fines or deadlines to cure any non-compliance, or to order us to cease construction or production if we fail to comply with these requirements. If 25 Table of Contents we fail to comply with present or future environmental regulations, we may be subject to substantial fines or damages or suspension of our business operations, and our reputation may be harmed. We have limited insurance coverage and may incur losses resulting from product liability claims or business interruptions. We are exposed to risks associated with product liability claims in the event that the use of our solar wafers and ingots results in injury. Since our solar wafers and ingots are made into electricity producing devices, it is possible that users could be injured or killed by devices that use our solar wafers and ingots, whether by product malfunctions, defects, improper installations or other causes. Due to our limited historical experience, we are unable to predict whether product liability claims will be brought against us in the future or to predict the effect of any resulting adverse publicity on our business. The successful assertion of product liability claims against us could result in potentially significant monetary damages and require us to make significant payments. Moreover, we do not carry any product liability insurance and may not have adequate resources to satisfy a judgment in the event of a successful claim against us. We do not carry any business interruption insurance. As the insurance industry in China is still in its early stage of development, even if we decide to take out business interruption coverage, such insurance available in China offers limited coverage compared to that offered in many other countries. Any business disruption or natural disaster could result in substantial losses and diversion of our resources. Increases in electricity costs or shortage or interruption of electricity supply may adversely affect our operations. We consume a significant amount of electricity in our wafer and polysilicon manufacture. In August 2006, as support to our wafer production in Xinyu city, the Xinyu Industry Development District government agreed to subsidize us for our utility charges over and above Rmb 0.40 per kilowatt-hour. At the current market rate of Rmb 0.55 per kilowatt-hour, we are effectively subsidized by Rmb 0.15, or $0.02, per kilowatt-hour we use for our wafer production. In the years ended December 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008, we received an aggregate of $0.8 million, $3.1 million and $4.7 million in such government subsidies. This utility arrangement is valid for three years from April 1, 2006 and may be extended only with consent of both parties. We are currently negotiating with the Xinyu Industry Development District government for the extension. There can be no assurance that the government will grant the extension and our results of operations will be affected if we cannot obtain such extension. In September 2007, as support to our polysilicon production in Xinyu city, the Xinyu Industry Development District government agreed to subsidize us for our utility charges over and above Rmb 0.25 per kilowatt-hour consumed by our polysilicon production. At the current market rate of Rmb 0.55 per kilowatt-hour, we are effectively subsidized by Rmb 0.30, or $0.04, per kilowatt-hour we use for our polysilicon production. Although this additional utility arrangement does not provide for an expiration date, there is no assurance that the government will not terminate it for reasons beyond our control. Polysilicon production is energy-intensive and is highly dependent on continuous electricity supply. Our results of operations will be materially adversely affected if our electricity supply is interrupted or electricity costs significantly increase upon expiration or termination of our arrangements with the government. Moreover, with the rapid development of the PRC economy, demand for electricity has continued to increase. There have been shortages in electricity supply in various regions across China, especially during the winter season when the weather is bad and during the summer peak seasons. For instance, in early 2008, due to severe weather conditions over a period of two weeks, supply of electricity to our plant was curtailed as a result of destructions of some of the national grid lines in certain provinces in China, including Jiangxi province. Consequently, we experienced delays in some of our shipments to customers and some of the shipments from our suppliers as a result of highway closures and power outages in various parts of China. In the summer of 2006, our production was also significantly disrupted due to power blackouts in Xinyu city. Although we have installed backup power transformer substations at our Xinyu plant site, we cannot assure you that there will be no interruption or shortages in our electricity supply or that there will be sufficient electricity available to us to meet our future requirements. Shortages in electricity supply may disrupt our normal operations and adversely affect our profitability. 26 Table of Contents Failure to protect our intellectual property rights, know-how and technology may undermine our competitive position. We have developed various production process related know-how and technologies in the production of solar wafers and ingots. We anticipate that we will also develop various production process related know-how and technologies in the production of polysilicon over time. Such know-how and technologies play a critical role in our quality assurance and cost reduction. In addition, we have implemented a number of research and development programs with a view to developing techniques and processes that will improve production efficiency and product quality. Our intellectual property and proprietary rights arising out of these research and development programs will be crucial in maintaining our competitive edge in the solar wafer industry. We currently do not have any patent or patent application pending in China or elsewhere. We currently use contractual arrangements with employees and trade secret protections to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. Nevertheless, contractual arrangements afford only limited protection and the actions we may take to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights may not be adequate. In addition, others may obtain knowledge of our know-how and technologies through independent development. Our failure to protect our production process related know-how and technologies and/or our intellectual property and proprietary rights may undermine our competitive position. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our proprietary technologies or other intellectual property and proprietary rights. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology can be difficult and expensive. Also, litigation, which can be costly and divert management attention and other resources away from our business, may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights. We cannot assure you that the outcome of such potential litigation will be in our favor. An adverse determination in any such litigation will impair our intellectual property and proprietary rights and may harm our business, prospects and reputation. We may be exposed to infringement, misappropriation or other claims by third parties and an adverse determination could result in us paying significant damages. Our success depends on our ability to use and develop our technology and know-how, to manufacture our polysilicon, solar wafers and ingots and to sell our solar wafers and ingots without infringing the intellectual property or other rights of third parties. We do not have, and have not applied for, any patents for our proprietary technologies in China or elsewhere. We may be subject to litigation involving claims of patent infringement or violation of intellectual property rights of third parties. The validity and scope of claims relating to solar power technology patents involve complex scientific, legal and factual questions and analyses and, therefore, may be highly uncertain. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, patent opposition proceedings, trademark disputes and related legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert our resources and the attention of our technical and management personnel. An adverse ruling in any such litigation or proceedings could subject us to significant liability to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties, to pay ongoing royalties, or to redesign our products, or subject us to injunctions prohibiting the manufacture and sale of our products or the use of our technologies. Protracted litigation could also result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our products until resolution of such dispute. We have granted, and may continue to grant, stock options under our stock incentive plan and our net income could be adversely impacted. We adopted a stock incentive plan in 2006. As of the date of this report, we have outstanding stock options under our stock incentive plan with respect to 6,606,143 shares, all of which were granted to our directors, employees, consultants and service providers. During 2008, as a result of the significant decreases of our share prices amid the global economic slowdown and financial market crisis, we and some of our optionees agreed to cancel some of the previously granted, but not yet vested, stock options in lieu of newly granted options with similar terms at lower exercise prices. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 123R, “Share-Based Payment.” This statement, which became effective in the first quarter of 2006, prescribes how we account for share-based compensation and may have an adverse impact on our results of operations or the price of our ADSs. SFAS No. 123R requires us to 27 Table of Contents recognize share-based compensation, as compensation expense in the statement of operations based on the fair value of equity awards on the date of the grant, with the compensation expense recognized over the period in which the recipient is required to provide service in exchange for the equity award. The additional expenses associated with share-based compensation may reduce the attractiveness of issuing stock options under our stock incentive plan. However, if we do not grant stock options or reduce the number of stock options that we grant, we may not be able to attract and retain key personnel. If we grant more stock options to attract and retain key personnel, the expenses associated with share-based compensation may adversely affect our net income. Most of our production, storage, administrative and research and development facilities are located in close proximity to one another in Xinyu city of Jiangxi province. Any damage or disruption at these facilities would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our production, storage, administrative, research and development facilities are located in close proximity to one another in Xinyu city of Jiangxi province in China. A natural disaster, such as fire, floods, typhoons or earthquakes, snow storms, or other unanticipated catastrophic events, including power interruption, telecommunications failures, equipment failures, explosions, fires, break-ins, terrorist acts or war, could significantly disrupt our ability to manufacture our products and operate our business. If any of our production facilities or material equipment were to experience any significant damage or downtime, we would be unable to meet our production targets and our business would suffer. Any damage or disruption at these facilities would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Business Operations in China Changes in PRC political and economic policies and conditions could adversely affect our business and prospects. China has been, and will continue to be, our primary production base and currently almost all of our assets are located in China. While the PRC government has been pursuing economic reforms to transform its economy from a planned economy to a market-oriented economy since 1978, a substantial part of the PRC economy is still being operated under various controls of the PRC government. By imposing industrial policies and other economic measures, such as control of foreign exchange, taxation and foreign investment, the PRC government exerts considerable direct and indirect influence on the development of the PRC economy. Many of the economic reforms carried out by the PRC government are unprecedented or experimental and are expected to be refined and improved over time. Other political, economic and social factors may also lead to further adjustments of the PRC reform measures. This refining and adjustment process may not necessarily have a positive effect on our operations and our future business development. Our business, prospects and results of operations may be materially adversely affected by changes in the PRC economic and social conditions and by changes in the policies of the PRC government, such as measures to control inflation, changes in the rates or method of taxation and the imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion. Changes in foreign exchange and foreign investment regulations in China may affect our ability to invest in China and the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends and service debts in foreign currencies. Renminbi is not a freely convertible currency at present. The PRC government regulates conversion between Renminbi and foreign currencies. Changes in PRC laws and regulations on foreign exchange may result in uncertainties in our financing and operating plans in China. Over the years, China has significantly reduced the government’s control over routine foreign exchange transactions under current accounts, including trade and service related foreign exchange transactions, payment of dividends and service of foreign debts. In accordance with the existing foreign exchange regulations in China, our PRC subsidiaries may, within the scope of current account transactions, pay dividends and service debts in foreign currencies without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, there can be no assurance that the current PRC foreign exchange policies with respect to debt service and payment of dividends in foreign currencies will continue in the future. Changes in PRC foreign exchange policies may have a negative impact on our ability to service our foreign currency-denominated indebtedness and to distribute dividends 28 Table of Contents to our shareholders in foreign currencies since we, as a Cayman Islands holding company, rely on our operating subsidiaries in China to convert their Renminbi cash flow to service such foreign debt and to make such dividend payments. Foreign exchange transactions by our PRC subsidiaries under the capital account continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls. In particular, foreign exchange transactions involving foreign direct investment, foreign debts and outbound investment in securities and derivatives are subject to limitations and require approvals from the relevant SAFE authorities. We have the choice, as permitted by the PRC foreign investment regulations, to invest our net proceeds from our various offerings in the form of registered capital or a shareholder loan into our PRC subsidiaries to finance our operations in China. Our choice of investment is affected by the different treatments under the relevant PRC regulations with respect to capital-account and current-account foreign exchange transactions in China. For example, our transfer of funds to our subsidiaries in China is subject to approval of PRC governmental authorities in case of an increase in registered capital, or subject to registration with PRC governmental authorities in case of a shareholder loan. These and other limitations on the flow of funds between us and our PRC subsidiaries could restrict our ability to act in response to changing market conditions and limit our flexibility in the management of our cash flow and financings. The uncertain legal environment in China could have a negative impact on our business and prospects and also limit the legal protections available to you. Our principal operating subsidiaries, Jiangxi LDK Solar, Jiangxi LDK Silicon and Jiangxi LDK Polysilicon, are foreign-invested enterprises in China and are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China in general and laws and regulations applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises and sino-foreign joint venture enterprises in particular. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike the common law system, the civil law system is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. When the PRC government started its economic reform in 1978, it began to formulate and promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations to provide general guidance on economic and business practices in China and to regulate foreign investments. China has made significant progress in the promulgation of laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. However, the promulgation of new laws, changes in existing laws and abrogation of local regulations by national laws may have a negative impact on our business and prospects. In addition, as these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent and because of the limited volume of published cases and their non-binding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws, regulations and legal requirements involve significant uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to foreign investors, including you. Expiration of, or changes to, current PRC tax incentives that our business enjoys could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Under PRC laws and regulations effective prior to January 1, 2008, a company established in China was typically subject to a national enterprise income tax at the rate of 30% on its taxable income and a local enterprise income tax at the rate of 3% on its taxable income. The PRC government provided various incentives to foreign-invested enterprises to encourage foreign investments. Such incentives included reduced tax rates and other measures. Foreign-invested enterprises that were determined by PRC tax authorities to be manufacturing companies with authorized terms of operation for more than ten years were eligible for: • a two-year exemption from the national enterprise income tax from their first profitable year; and • a 50% reduction of their applicable national enterprise income tax rate for the succeeding three years. The local preferential enterprise income tax treatment was within the jurisdiction of the local provincial authorities as permitted under the prior PRC tax laws relating to foreign-invested enterprises. The local tax authorities would decide whether to grant any tax preferential treatment to foreign-invested enterprises on the basis 29 Table of Contents of their local conditions. The Jiangxi provincial government announced that energy companies with authorized terms of operation for more than ten years were eligible for: • a five-year exemption from the 3% local enterprise income tax from their first profitable year; and • a 50% reduction of their local enterprise income tax rate for the succeeding five years. Under such pre-existing PRC tax laws and regulations, Jiangxi LDK Solar, as a foreign-invested manufacturing enterprise, was entitled to a two-year exemption from the national enterprise income tax for 2006 and 2007 and would be subject to a reduced national enterprise income tax rate of 15% from 2008 through 2010. Likewise, Jiangxi LDK Solar was entitled to a five-year exemption from the local enterprise income tax beginning in 2006 and would be subject to a reduced local enterprise income tax rate of 1.5% from 2011 through 2015. In March 2007, the PRC National People’s Congress enacted a new Enterprise Income Tax Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. The new tax law imposes a unified income tax rate of 25% on all domestic enterprises and foreign-invested enterprises unless they qualify for preferential tax treatments under certain limited exceptions. The new tax law and the related regulations permit companies to continue to enjoy their preferential tax treatments under the prior tax regime until such treatments expire in accordance with their terms, on the condition that such preferential tax treatments are available under the grandfather clauses of the new tax law and the related regulations. As a result, Jiangxi LDK Solar is subject to a reduced unified enterprise income tax rate of 12.5% from 2008 to 2010 and will be subject to income tax at 25% starting from 2011. Jiangxi LDK Silicon and Jiangxi LDK Polysilicon do not enjoy any preferential tax treatment in China. When our current tax benefits expire or otherwise become unavailable to us for any reason, our profitability may be adversely affected. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by the PRC labor laws and regulations. The PRC labor laws and regulations have a direct impact on our business operations. In June 2007, the National People’s Congress promulgated the Labor Contract Law of China, which became effective on January 1, 2008. In September 2008, the State Council adopted the relevant rules and regulations to implement the new labor law. This labor contract law is aimed at providing employees with greater protection in their employment relationships. For example, the new labor contract law requires employers to enter into written contracts with their employees, and if an employer fails to enter into a written contract with an employee within one month after the commencement of the employment, the employer is required to pay to the employee double salary for the noncompliance period for up to one year. The new law also calls for open-ended employment contracts rather than fixed-term contracts under specified circumstances. The law further prohibits an employer from entering into a one-year or shorter-term contract with an employee if it constitutes the third consecutive renewal of the employment contract unless it is so requested by the employee. As a result of this more labor-friendly legislation, our discretion in the hiring and termination process has been significantly curtailed, which could in turn affect our overall labor costs and our ability to adjust our labor needs in response to market changes. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could therefore be adversely affected by these PRC labor laws and regulations. We may be deemed a PRC resident enterprise under the new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and be subject to the PRC taxation as to our worldwide income. We are a Cayman Islands holding company with substantially all of our operations conducted through our operating subsidiaries in China. Under the PRC Income Tax Law for Enterprises with Foreign Investment and Foreign Enterprises effective prior to January 1, 2008, any dividends payable by foreign-invested enterprises, such as our PRC subsidiaries, to their non-PRC investors, such as our Cayman Islands holding company, were exempt from PRC withholding tax. In addition, any dividends payable, or distributions made, by us to holders or beneficial owners of our shares or ADSs would not be subject to any PRC tax, provided that such holders or beneficial owners, including individuals and enterprises, were not deemed to be PRC residents under the PRC tax law and were not otherwise subject to PRC tax. Under the new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation regulations, if our Cayman Islands holding company continues to be treated as a foreign investor, or a “non-resident enterprise” as defined in the new tax law, dividends and distributions for earnings derived since January 1, 2008 from our PRC 30 Table of Contents subsidiaries to us will be subject to a 10% withholding tax. The Cayman Islands where we are incorporated has no tax treaty with China entitling us to any withholding tax lower than 10%. The new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, however, also provides that enterprises established outside China whose “de facto management bodies” are located in China are considered “resident enterprises” and will generally be subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate as to their global income. Under the implementation regulations issued by the State Council relating to the new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, “de facto management body” is defined as the body that has material and overall management control over the business, personnel, accounts and properties of an enterprise. In April 2009, the PRC State Administration of Taxation promulgated a circular to clarify the definition of “de facto management body” for enterprises incorporated overseas with controlling shareholders being PRC enterprises. Therefore, it remains unclear how the tax authorities will treat an overseas enterprise invested or controlled by another overseas enterprise and ultimately controlled by PRC individual residents as is in our case. We are currently not treated as a PRC resident enterprise by the relevant tax authorities. Since substantially all of our management is currently based in China and may remain in China in the future, we may be treated as a PRC resident enterprise for PRC enterprise income tax purposes and subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax as to our global income. You should also read the risk factor entitled “— Dividends payable by us to our foreign investors and gains on the sale of our shares or ADSs may become subject to withholding taxes under PRC tax laws” below. If we are treated as such a PRC resident enterprise under the PRC tax law, we could face significant adverse tax consequences. Dividends payable by us to our foreign investors and gains on the sale of our shares or ADSs may become subject to withholding taxes under PRC tax laws. Under the new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation regulations, to the extent such dividends for earnings derived since January 1, 2008 are sourced within China and we are considered a “resident enterprise” in China, then PRC income tax at the rate of 10% is applicable to dividends payable by us to investors that are “non-resident enterprises” so long as such “non-resident enterprise” investors do not have an establishment or place of business in China or, despite the existence of such establishment or place of business in China, the relevant income is not effectively connected with such establishment or place of business in China. Similarly, any gain realized on the transfer of our shares or ADSs by such investors is also subject to a 10% PRC income tax if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within China and we are considered a “resident enterprise” in China. If we are required under the new tax law to withhold PRC income tax on our dividends payable to our foreign shareholders or foreign holders of our ADSs who are “non-resident enterprises,” or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of our shares or ADSs, the value of your investment in our shares or ADSs may be materially adversely affected. It is unclear whether, if we are considered a PRC “resident enterprise,” holders of our shares or ADSs might be able to claim the benefit of income tax treaties or agreements entered into between China and other countries or areas. We rely principally on dividends, if any, paid by our subsidiaries to fund our cash and financing requirements, and any limitation on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We are a holding company and rely principally on dividends, if any, paid by our subsidiaries for cash requirements, including the funds necessary to service any debt we incur and to pay any dividend we declare. If any of our subsidiaries incurs debt in its own name, the instruments governing the debt may restrict dividends or other distributions on its equity interest to be paid to us. Furthermore, applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations permit payment of dividends by our PRC subsidiaries on a combined basis only out of their retained earnings, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards. Our PRC subsidiaries are required to set aside a certain percentage of their after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year for their reserve fund in accordance with the requirements of relevant PRC laws and the relevant provisions in their respective articles of associations. As a result, our PRC subsidiaries combined may be restricted in their ability to transfer any portion of their net income to us whether in the form of dividends, loans or advances. Any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us could materially adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends, service our debts, or otherwise fund and 31 Table of Contents conduct our business. Under the new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation regulations, PRC income tax at the rate of 10% is applicable to dividends payable for earnings derived since January 1, 2008 by PRC enterprises to “non-resident enterprises” (enterprises that do not have an establishment or place of business in China, or that have such establishment or place of business in China but the relevant income is not effectively connected with such establishment or place of business), subject to any lower withholding tax rate as may be contained in any income tax treaty or agreement that China has entered into with the government of the jurisdiction where such “non-resident enterprises” were incorporated. If we are considered as a “non-resident enterprise” under the PRC tax law, any dividend that we receive from our PRC subsidiaries may be subject to PRC taxation at the 10% rate. Recent PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident shareholders to personal liability and limit our ability to acquire PRC companies or to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us, or otherwise materially adversely affect us. SAFE issued a public notice in October 2005, together with its subsequent implementation procedures and clarifications, to require PRC residents, both legal and natural persons, to register with the local SAFE branches before they establish or take control of any company outside China for the purpose of acquiring any asset of or equity interest in PRC companies and raising funds overseas. SAFE refers to such companies outside China as “offshore special purpose companies” in its notice. In addition, SAFE also requires any PRC resident that is the shareholder of an offshore special purpose company to amend its SAFE registration with respect to the offshore special purpose company in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, merger, division, equity investment or creation of any security interest over any assets located in China. If any PRC shareholder of an offshore special purpose company fails to make the required SAFE registration and amendment, the PRC subsidiaries of that offshore special purpose company may be prohibited from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to the offshore special purpose company. Moreover, failure to comply with such SAFE registration and amendment requirements could result in liabilities under the PRC law for the evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. Our current beneficial owners who are PRC residents have registered with SAFE as required under the SAFE notice. The failure of these beneficial owners to amend their SAFE registrations in a timely manner pursuant to the SAFE notice or the failure of our other future beneficial owners who are PRC residents to comply with the SAFE registration requirements may subject such beneficial owners to fines and legal sanctions, and may also result in restrictions on our PRC subsidiaries in their abilities to distribute profits to us, or may otherwise materially adversely affect our business. We face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks of contagious diseases, including influenza A (H1N1), avian flu and SARS. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of influenza A (H1N1), avian flu, SARS, or other epidemic outbreaks. In April 2009, an outbreak of influenza A caused by the H1N1 virus occurred in Mexico and the United States, and spread into a number of countries rapidly. There have been reports of outbreaks of a highly pathogenic avian flu, caused by the H5N1 virus, in certain regions of Asia and Europe. Over the years, there have been reports on the occurrences of avian flu in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases. An outbreak of avian flu in the human population could result in a widespread health crisis that could adversely affect the economies and financial markets of many countries, particularly in Asia. Additionally, any recurrence of SARS, a highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia, similar to the outbreaks in 2003 which affected China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore, Vietnam and certain other countries, could also have similar adverse effects of a similar scale. Any prolonged occurrence or recurrence of these contagious diseases or other adverse public health developments may have a material adverse effect on our business operations. These include limitations on our ability to travel or ship our products outside China as well as temporary closure of our manufacturing facilities for quarantine or for preventive purposes. Such closures or travel or shipment restrictions could severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any health epidemics and other outbreaks of contagious diseases, including influenza A (H1N1), avian flu, or SARS. 32 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our ADSs and Shares The market price of our ADSs has been and may continue to be volatile. The market price of our ADSs experienced, and may continue to experience, significant volatility. For the period from January 1, 2008 to December 31, 2008, the closing prices of our ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange have ranged from a low of $9.95 per ADS to a high of $51.26 per ADS. You may find additional information on the historical high and low closing prices of our ADSs as reported by the New York Stock Exchange under “Item 9. The Offer and Listing — A. Offer and Listing Details — 4. Information Regarding the Price History of the Stock” and “— C. Markets” in this report. Numerous factors, including many over which we have no control, may have a significant impact on the market prices of our ADSs, including: • announcements of technological or competitive developments; • regulatory developments in our target markets affecting us, our customers, suppliers or competitors; • announcements regarding patent litigation or the issuance of patents to us or our competitors; • announcements of studies and reports relating to the conversion efficiencies of our products or those of our competitors; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results or those of our suppliers, customers or competitors; • changes in financial estimates or other material comments by securities analysts relating to us, our suppliers, customers or competitors, or our industry in general; • announcements by other companies in our industry relating to their operations, strategic initiatives, financial condition or financial performance; • announcements of acquisitions or consolidations involving industry competitors or industry suppliers or customers; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other PV technology companies; • addition or departure of our executive officers and key research personnel; • sales or perceived sales of additional shares or ADSs by us or our significant shareholders; and • impact and development of any lawsuit, currently pending or threatened, or that may be instituted in the future. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and trading volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our ADSs, regardless of our operating performance. These factors, among others, could significantly depress the trading price of our ADSs. We may not be able to pay any dividends on our shares and ADSs. Under Cayman Islands law, we may only pay dividends out of our profits or our share premium account subject to our ability to service our debts as they fall due in the ordinary course of our business. Our ability to pay dividends will therefore depend on our ability to generate sufficient profits. We cannot give any assurance that we will declare dividends of any amounts, at any rate or at all. We have not paid any dividends in the past. Future dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon our future operations and earnings, capital expenditure requirements, general financial conditions, legal and contractual restrictions and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. You should refer to the risk factor entitled “— Risks Relating to Business Operations in China — We rely principally on dividends, if any, paid by our subsidiaries to fund our cash and financing requirements, and any limitation on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business” in this report for additional legal restrictions on the 33 Table of Contents ability of our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends to us and the section entitled “Item 8. Financial Information — A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information — Dividend Distribution Policy” in this report for additional information regarding our current dividend policy. Future financings, including sales of our ADSs, shares or equity-linked securities in the public market, may cause a dilution in your shareholding, cause the price of our ADSs to decline, or place restrictions on our operations. We may require additional funding to meet our working capital or capital expenditure requirements or in connection with our business expansion plans, acquisitions, strategic collaborations or other transactions in the future. If we raise such funding through issuance of new equity or equity-linked securities it may cause a dilution in the percentage ownership of our then existing shareholders. Sales of a substantial number of ADSs or other equity-linked securities in the public market could depress the market price of our ADSs, and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity or equity-linked securities. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of our ADSs or other equity-linked securities would have on the market price of our ADSs. Alternatively, if we meet such funding requirements by way of additional debt financing, we may have restrictions placed on us through such debt financing arrangements which may: • limit our ability to pay dividends or require us to seek consents for the payment of dividends; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our ability to pursue our business strategies; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund capital expenditure, working capital requirements and other general corporate needs; and • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and/or our industry. Holders of ADSs have fewer rights than shareholders and must act through the depositary to exercise those rights. Holders of ADSs do not have the same rights of our shareholders and may only exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Upon receipt of voting instructions from ADS holders, the depositary will vote the underlying shares in accordance with these instructions. Otherwise, ADS holders will not be able to exercise their right to vote unless they withdraw the shares underlying their ADSs. Under our amended and restated articles of association, the minimum notice period required to convene a general meeting is 10 clear days. When a general meeting is convened, ADS holders may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit such holders to withdraw their shares to allow them to cast their vote with respect to any specific matter. If requested in writing by us, the depositary will mail a notice of such a meeting to ADS holders. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to ADS holders or carry out ADS holders’ voting instructions in a timely manner. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if the ADSs are not voted as you requested. In addition, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to call a shareholder meeting. You may be subject to limitations on transfers of your ADSs. The ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement or our articles of association, or for any other reason. 34 Table of Contents You may not receive distributions on shares or any value for them if it is unlawful or impractical to make them available to you. Subject to the terms and conditions of the deposit agreement, the depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it decides that it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs, in which case it may determine not to make such a distribution. Neither we nor the depositary has any obligation to register ADSs, shares, rights or other securities subject to such distribution under U.S. securities laws. Neither we nor the depositary has any obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of ADSs, shares, rights or anything else to holders of ADSs. This means that you may not receive the distribution we make on our shares or any value for them if it is unlawful or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may have a material adverse effect on the value of your ADSs. You may not be able to participate in rights offerings or elect to receive stock dividends and may experience dilution of your holdings, and the sale, deposit, cancellation and transfer of our ADSs issued after exercise of rights may be restricted. If we offer our shareholders any rights to subscribe for additional shares or any other rights, the depositary may make these rights available to you after consultation with us. We cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. In addition, under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not distribute rights to holders of ADSs unless the distribution and sale of rights and the securities to which these rights relate are either exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs, or are registered by us under the provisions of the Securities Act. We can give no assurance that we can establish an exemption from the registration requirements under the Securities Act, and we are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to these rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to have a registration statement declared effective. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings as a result. The depositary may allow rights that are not distributed or sold to lapse. In that case, you will receive no value for them. In addition, U.S. securities laws may restrict the sale, deposit, cancellation and transfer of ADSs issued after exercise of rights. Anti-takeover provisions of our articles of association could prevent a change in control even if such takeover is beneficial to our shareholders, and certain provisions of our convertible senior notes could also discourage an potential acquirer. Our articles of association contain provisions that could delay, defer or prevent a change in control of our company that could be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. As a result, these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for our ADSs. These provisions might also discourage a potential acquisition proposal or tender offer, even if the acquisition proposal or tender offer is at a price above the then current market price of our ADSs. These provisions provide that our board of directors has authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix their designations, powers, preferences, privileges, and relative participating, optional or special rights and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our shares, in the form of ADSs or otherwise. Our board of directors may decide to issue such preferred shares quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make the removal of our management more difficult. If our board of directors decides to issue such preferred shares, the price of our ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of holders of our shares and ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. In April 2008, we completed an offering of $400 million of 4.75% convertible senior notes due 2013 pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act and, subsequently in June 2008, we filed an automatically effective shelf registration statement on Form F-3 (File Number: 333-152009) for resale of such notes and our shares represented by ADSs issuable upon conversion of the notes. Certain provisions of the notes could make it more difficult or more 35 Table of Contents expensive for a third party to acquire us, or may even prevent a third party from acquiring us. Upon the occurrence of certain transactions constituting a fundamental change, holders of our convertible senior notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase for cash all or any portion of such notes. Upon certain change of control transactions, holders of our convertible senior notes may elect to convert all or a portion of the notes. We may also be required to increase the conversion rate for conversions in connection with certain fundamental changes. By discouraging a potential acquirer, these provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares or ADSs at a premium over prevailing market prices and might reduce the price of our shares and ADSs. We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than that under U.S. law, ADS holders may have less protection for their shareholder rights than such holders would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders to take action against our directors, actions that may be taken by our minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedents in the Cayman Islands as well as those from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they are under statutes or judicial precedents in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. Substantially all of our assets and a substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. The Cayman Islands courts are also unlikely: • to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; and • to impose liabilities against us, in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will generally recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. As a result of all of the above, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by our management, members of our board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a U.S. public company. You may have difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us. We are a Cayman Islands company and substantially all of our assets are located outside the United States. Most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. In addition, substantially all of our current operations are conducted in China. As a result, it may be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors. It may also be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon our directors or officers. Furthermore, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands or China would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or our directors or officers predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any of its states. It is also uncertain whether such 36 Table of Contents Cayman Islands or PRC courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands or China against us or such directors or officers predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any of its states. We incur significant costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that a private company would not incur. We incur costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange have imposed increased regulation and required enhanced corporate governance practices for public companies. You may find additional information under the risk factor entitled “— Risks Relating to Our Company and Our Industry — We are subject to the management report and auditor attestation report requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and investor confidence and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely affected” in this report. Our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards in this regard are likely to result in significant general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. These new rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance than for a private company to do so. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified candidates to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers than for a private company to do so. 