risk factors discussed in "Risk Factors" and other risks identified in the Annual Report could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements. There may be other risks and uncertainties that we are unable to predict at this time or that we currently do not expect to have a material adverse effect on our business. ii PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Tyco Electronics Ltd. ("we," "Tyco Electronics," or the "Company") is a leading global provider of engineered electronic components, network solutions, wireless systems, and undersea telecommunication systems. We design, manufacture, and market products for customers in industries from automotive, appliance, and aerospace and defense to telecommunications, computers, and consumer electronics. Our products are produced in approximately 120 manufacturing sites in over 25 countries. With over 8,000 engineers and worldwide manufacturing, sales, and customer service capabilities, Tyco Electronics' commitment is our customers' advantage. Tyco Electronics Ltd. was incorporated in Bermuda in fiscal 2000 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Tyco International Ltd. ("Tyco International"). For the period following its incorporation, Tyco Electronics Ltd. did not engage in any significant business activities and held minimal assets. In connection with our separation from Tyco International, the equity interests in the entities that hold all of the assets and liabilities of Tyco International's electronics businesses were transferred to Tyco Electronics. Our business was formed principally through a series of acquisitions, from fiscal 1999 through fiscal 2002, of established electronics companies and divisions, including the acquisition of AMP Incorporated and Raychem Corporation in fiscal 1999 and the Electromechanical Components Division of Siemens and OEM Division of Thomas & Betts in fiscal 2000. These companies each have more than 50 years of history in engineering and innovation excellence. We operated as a segment of Tyco International prior to our separation. Effective June 29, 2007, Tyco International distributed all of its shares of Tyco Electronics to its common shareholders. Tyco Electronics Ltd. became an independent, publicly traded company owning the former electronics businesses of Tyco International Ltd. Our reporting segments manufacture and distribute our products and solutions to a number of end markets. The table below provides a summary of our reporting segments, the fiscal 2007 net sales contribution of each segment, and the key products and markets that we serve: Segment Electronic Components Network Solutions Wireless Systems Undersea Telecommunications % of Fiscal 2007 Net Sales 75% 14% 7% 4% Key Products • • • • • • • • Connector systems Relays Heat shrink tubing Fiber optics Circuit protection devices Wire and cable Touch screens Application tooling • • • • • • • Connector systems Heat shrink tubing Fiber optics Wire and cable Racks and panels Intelligent building controls Network interface devices • • • Land mobile radios and systems Radio frequency components and subsystems Radar systems • Undersea telecommunication systems Key Markets • • • • • • • Automotive Computer Communication equipment Appliance Industrial machinery Aerospace and defense Consumer electronics • • • Energy Communication service providers Building networks • • • • Public safety Communication equipment Aerospace and defense Automotive • • Communication service providers Oil and gas 1 See Note 24 to the Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements for certain segment and geographic financial information relating to our business. Our Competitive Strengths We believe that we have the following competitive strengths: •Global leader in passive components. With net sales of approximately $13.5 billion in fiscal 2007, we are significantly larger than many of our competitors. In the $40 billion fragmented connector industry, our net sales were approximately $8 billion in fiscal 2007. We have established a global leadership position in the connector industry with leading market positions in the following markets: •Automotive—#1 •Computers and peripherals—#1 •Industrial—#1 •Telecom/data communications—#2 Our scale provides us the opportunity to accelerate our sales growth by making larger investments in existing and new technologies in our core markets and to expand our presence in emerging markets. Our leadership position also provides the opportunity to lower our purchasing costs by developing lower cost sources of supply and to maintain a flexible manufacturing footprint worldwide that is close to our customers' locations. •Strong customer relationships. As an industry leader, we have established close working relationships with our customers. These relationships allow us to anticipate and be responsive to customer needs when designing new products and new technical solutions. By working with our customers in developing new products and technologies, we believe we are able to identify and act on trends and leverage knowledge about next-generation technology across our products. In addition, we operate a broad Global Account Management program through which we maintain close working relationships with the key customers in the end markets that we serve. •Process and product technology leadership. We employ over 8,000 engineers dedicated to product research, development, and engineering. Our investment of $600 million per year in product and process engineering and development together with our capital spending of nearly $900 million in fiscal 2007, enable us to consistently provide innovative, high-quality products with efficient manufacturing methods. •Diverse product mix and customer base. We manufacture and sell a broad portfolio of products to customers in various industries. Our customers include many of the leaders in their respective industries and our relationships with them typically date back many years. We believe that this diversified customer base reduces our exposure to a particular end market and therefore the variability of our financial performance, and provides us an opportunity to leverage our skills and experience across markets. Additionally, we believe that the diversity of our customer base reduces the level of cyclicality in our results and distinguishes us from our competitors. •Balanced geographic sales mix. We have an established manufacturing presence in over 25 countries and our sales are global. Our global coverage positions us near our customers' locations and allows us to assist them in consolidating their supply base and lowering their production costs. We believe our balanced sales distribution lowers our exposure to any particular geography and improves our financial profile. In addition, our strategy is to continue to increase the percentage of production from low-cost countries. •Strong and experienced management team. We believe we have a management team that has the experience necessary to effectively execute our strategy and advance our product and technology 2 leadership. Our Chief Executive Officer, President, and segment leaders average more than 20 years of experience in the electronics industry. They are supported by an experienced and talented management team that is dedicated to maintaining and expanding our position as a global leader in the industry. Our Strategy Our goal is to be the world leader in providing custom-engineered electronic components and solutions for an increasingly connected world. We believe that in achieving this goal we will increase net sales and profitability across our segments in the markets that we serve. Our business strategy is based upon the following priorities: •Continue to focus our existing portfolio. As part of our strategy, we regularly review and will consider the divestiture of underperforming or non-strategic businesses to improve our operating results and better utilize our capital. Some of these divestitures may have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements, and we currently believe these divestitures, including the Power Systems business and other product exits, could reduce our consolidated net sales by approximately 15%. We have made strategic divestitures in the past and expect that we may make additional divestitures in the future. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Divestitures and Manufacturing Simplification." •Leverage our market leadership position to increase our market share. We are the global leader in many of the markets that we serve. For example, within our Electronic Components segment, we are the leading global supplier of connectors and connector systems to the automotive, computers and storage, and industrial markets. We believe that these and other markets are critical to our success and that we must continue to strengthen our leadership position in these markets. We plan to capitalize on the expected growth in these markets by leveraging our significant scale in the industry, the breadth of our product portfolio, our established relationships and leading specification positions with our customers, and our extensive worldwide distribution channels. •Achieve market leadership in attractive and under-penetrated industries. We plan to accelerate growth in end-user markets in which we do not have the number one market share but which we believe have attractive growth and profitability characteristics. These markets include: aerospace and defense, consumer electronics, mobile phone, and medical markets with respect to our Electronic Components segment; the land mobile radio market with respect to our Wireless Systems segment; and the energy and communication service provider market with respect to our Network Solutions segment. We believe that we can further leverage our customer service and our new product and technology capabilities in order to achieve a leading position in these markets. •Extend our leadership in key emerging markets. We seek to improve our market leadership position in emerging geographic regions, including China, Eastern Europe, and India, which we expect will experience higher growth rates compared to that of more developed regions in the world. In fiscal 2007, we generated $1.6 billion of net sales from China, $937 million of net sales in Eastern Europe, and $168 million of net sales in India. We have been increasing our sales and marketing, engineering, and manufacturing resources in these emerging regions in order to more fully capitalize on our skills and technologies. We believe that expansion in these regions will enable us to grow faster than the overall global market. •Supplement organic growth with strategic acquisitions. We will evaluate and selectively pursue strategic acquisitions that strengthen our market position, enhance our existing product offering, enable us to enter attractive markets, expand our technological capabilities, and provide synergy opportunities. 3 •Improve operating margins. We intend to continue to increase our productivity and reduce our manufacturing costs. We plan to achieve this through best in class in manufacturing, enhancing our purchasing strategy by strengthening our procurement organization and simplifying our vendor base, and further implementing strategic programs such as our Six Sigma initiative. We also plan to continue to simplify our global manufacturing footprint, both by migrating facilities from high cost to low cost countries and by consolidating within countries. With respect to our manufacturing rationalization plan, we expect to incur restructuring charges of approximately $130 million in fiscal 2008 and up to $250 million from fiscal 2009 through 2010. These initiatives are designed to help us to maintain our competitiveness in the industry. •Accelerate new product development through research and development excellence. We seek to continue to increase the percentage of our annual net sales from products launched within the previous year. In fiscal 2007, we derived 15% of our net sales from new products launched within the previous fiscal year. In order to accomplish this goal, we intend to focus our research, development, and engineering investment on next generation technologies and highly engineered products and platforms, and leverage innovation across our segments. Our Products Our net sales by reporting segment as a percentage of our total net sales was as follows: Fiscal 2007 2006 2005 Electronic Components 75 % 76 % 77 % Network Solutions 14 14 13 Wireless Systems 7 7 8 Undersea Telecommunications 4 3 2 Total 100 % 100 % 100 % Electronic Components Our Electronic Components segment is one of the world's largest suppliers of passive electronic components, which includes connectors and interconnect systems, relays, switches, circuit protection devices, touchscreens, sensors, and wire and cable. The products sold by the Electronic Components segment are sold primarily to original equipment manufacturers and their contract manufacturers in the automotive, computer, consumer electronics, communication equipment, appliance, aerospace and defense, industrial machinery, and instrumentation markets. The following are the primary product families sold by the segment: •Connector Systems and Components. We offer an extensive range of electrical and electronic interconnection products. These connectors include a wide variety of pin and socket, USB, coaxial, I/O, fiber optic, and power connectors, as well as sophisticated interconnection products used in complex telecommunications and computer equipment. •Relays. Our relay products can be used in a wide range of applications in the automotive, telecommunications, industrial, and aerospace industries, including electric sunroofs, anti-lock braking systems, and fuel injection coils for the automotive industry, signal and power relay technologies for the telecommunications industry, and high-performance products for the aerospace industry. •Heat Shrink Tubing. We offer hundreds of reliable, cost-effective products to seal, connect, insulate, protect, hold, and bundle high-performance electrical harnesses. We also provide customized harnessing design, prototype, and build services. 4 •Fiber Optics. We manufacture fiber optic connectors, cable assemblies, adapters, and accessories. We provide highly engineered products that connect, configure, and control light. •Circuit Protection Devices. We offer a range of circuit protection devices, which limit the flow of high current during fault conditions and automatically reset when the fault is cleared and power to the circuit is removed. We also offer surface-mount fuses, surge protectors, gas discharge tubes for overvoltage protection, and electrostatic discharge protection devices. •Wire and Cable. We provide highly engineered cable and wire products to the data transmission, aerospace, automotive, telecommunications, industrial, and medical markets. We offer a broad range of cable, including UTP and PVC ribbon cables, SCSI and IEEE 1394 computer cables, NASA-spec cable, and other cables suitable for use in the aerospace industry. •Touch Screens. We develop, manufacture, and market a complete line of touch products for transactional kiosks, point-of-sale terminals, machine and process control, and automated teller machines. We offer component touch systems for original equipment manufacturers and a broad line of standard and custom LCD and CRT touch monitors. We believe that we are an industry leader in advancing surface wave, resistive, infrared, and capacitive technologies. •Application Tooling. We offer a broad portfolio of hand tools, semi-automatic bench machines, and fully-automatic machine systems for processing terminal products. In addition to the above product families which represent in excess of 90% of the Electronic Components segment net sales, we also offer battery assemblies, identification products, antennas, magnetics, sensors, switches, and resistors. Network Solutions Our Network Solutions segment is one of the world's largest suppliers of infrastructure components and systems for telecommunications and energy markets. These components include connectors, above and below-ground enclosures, heat shrink tubing, cable accessories, surge arrestors, fiber optic cabling, copper cabling, and racks for copper and fiber networks. This segment also provides electronic systems for test access and intelligent cross-connect applications as well as integrated cabling solutions for cabling and building management. The products are grouped into the following product families: •Connector Systems and Components. We offer an extensive range of low, medium, and high-voltage connectors and splices, cable assemblies, sealing systems, terminals, fittings, lugs and clamps, transmission line fittings, splice closures, grounding hardware, and wall and floor outlets for voice and data connection to local area networks. •Heat Shrink Tubing. We offer heat shrink tubing, heat-shrinkable splice closures, wrap-around sleeves, and molded parts designed to better protect both high and low-voltage circuits against harsh aerial, buried, and above-ground environments. •Fiber Optics. We provide fiber optic connectors, splices, fiber optic splice closures, fiber management systems, high density cable assemblies, couplers and splitters, and complete cabling systems. These products find use in both local-area and wide-area networks, and emerging "Last-Mile" Fiber-to-the-Home installations. •Wire and Cable. We provide wire and cable for indoor and outdoor use in office, factory floor, school, and residential voice, data, and video networks, including copper and fiber optic distribution cables, shielded and unshielded twisted-pair cables, armored cable, and patch cords. •Racks and Panels. We provide racks and panels that are used to integrate, organize, and manage fiber and copper cables and splices, thereby simplifying installation, maintenance, and upgrades for both exchange/head end and customer premise environments. 5 In addition to the above product families which represent in excess of 90% of the total Network Solutions segment net sales, the segment also sells insulators, surge arrestors, power measurement products, CATV accessories, network interface devices, raceway systems, and duct accessories. Wireless Systems Our Wireless Systems segment is an innovator of wireless technology for critical communications, radar, and defense applications. The segment's products include radio frequency components and subassembly solutions such as silicon and gallium arsenide semiconductors, radar sensors, radio frequency identification components, microwave subsystems, and diodes and land mobile radio systems and related products. These products are sold primarily to the aerospace and defense, public safety, communication equipment, and automotive markets and are grouped into the following product families: •Land Mobile Radio Systems and Products. We provide state-of-the-art two-way mobile radio technology products and systems. These systems and products are used primarily by public safety and government organizations. •Radio Frequency Components and Subassembly Solutions. We produce amplifiers, antennas, attenuators, diodes, signal generation, limiters, transistors, modulators, mixers and microwave, and millimeter wave integrated circuits. Undersea Telecommunications Our Undersea Telecommunications segment builds, designs, maintains, and tests undersea fiber optic networks for both the telecommunications and oil and gas markets. Markets We sell our products to manufacturers and distributors in a number of major markets. The approximate percentage of our total net sales by market in fiscal 2007 was as follows: Markets Percentage Automotive 30 % Telecommunications 19 Computer 8 Energy 7 Aerospace and Defense 5 Appliance 4 Industrial Machinery 4 Consumer Electronics 2 Other 21 Total 100 % Automotive. The automotive industry uses our products in motor management systems, body electronic applications, safety systems, chassis systems, security systems, driver information, passenger entertainment, and comfort and convenience applications. Electronic components regulate critical vehicle functions, from fuel intake to braking, as well as information, entertainment, and climate control systems. Telecommunications. Our products are used in telecommunications products, such as data networking equipment, switches, routers, wire line infrastructure equipment, wireless infrastructure equipment, wireless base stations, mobile phones, and undersea fiber optic telecommunication systems. 6 Computer. Our products are used in computer products, such as servers and storage equipment, workstations, notebook computers, desktop computers, and business and retail equipment. Energy. The energy industry uses our products in power generation equipment and power transmission equipment. The industry has been investing heavily to improve, upgrade, and restore existing equipment and systems. In addition, this industry addresses the needs of emerging countries that are building out their energy infrastructure. Aerospace and Defense. Our products are used in military and commercial aircraft, missile systems, satellites, space programs, and radar systems. Appliance. Our products are used in many household appliances, including refrigerators, washers, dryers, dishwashers, and microwaves. Industrial Machinery. Our products are used in factory automation and process control systems, photovoltaic systems, industrial motors and generators, and general industrial machinery and equipment. Consumer Electronics. The consumer electronics industry uses our products to produce digital cameras, plasma and LCD televisions, electronic games, and DVD recorders and players. Other. Our products are used in numerous products, including instrumentation and measurement equipment, medical equipment, commercial and building equipment, building network and cabling systems, and railway equipment. Other also includes products sold through third-party distributors. Customers Our customers include automobile, telecommunication, computer, industrial, aerospace, and consumer products manufacturers that operate both globally and locally. Our customers also include contract manufacturers and third-party distributors. We serve over 200,000 customer locations in over 150 countries, and we maintain a strong local presence in each of the geographic areas in which we operate. Our net sales by geographic area as a percentage of our total net sales were as follows: Fiscal 2007 2006 2005 Americas 37 % 38 % 39 % Europe/Middle East/Africa 36 35 36 Asia-Pacific 27 27 25 Total 100 % 100 % 100 % We collaborate closely with our customers so that their product needs are met. There is no single customer that accounted for more than 10% of our net sales in fiscal 2007, 2006, or 2005. Our approach to our customers is driven by our dedication to further developing our product families and ensuring that we are globally positioned to best provide our customers with sales and engineering support. We believe that as electronic component technologies continue to proliferate, our broad product portfolio and engineering capability give us a potential competitive advantage when addressing the needs of our global customers. Raw Materials We use a wide variety of raw materials in the manufacture of our products. The principal raw materials that we use include plastic resins for molding, precious metals such as gold and silver for plating, and other metals such as copper, aluminum, brass, steel for manufacturing cable, contacts, and 7 other parts that are used for cable and component bodies and inserts. These raw materials are generally available on world markets, and we purchase them from a limited number of suppliers in order to obtain the most competitive pricing. The prices of these materials are driven by global supply and demand dynamics. For many of these raw materials, the prices have continued to increase, as rapidly increasing demand has continued to outpace increases in supply. Working Capital We consistently maintain an adequate level of working capital to support our business needs. There are no unusual industry practices or requirements relating to working capital items. Research and Development We are engaged in both internal and external research and development in an effort to introduce new products, to enhance the effectiveness, ease of use, safety, and reliability of our existing products, and to expand the applications for which the uses of our products are appropriate. We continually evaluate developing technologies in areas where we may have technological or marketing expertise for possible investment or acquisition. Our research and development expense for fiscal 2007, 2006, and 2005 was as follows: Fiscal 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) Electronic Components $ 341 $ 302 $ 286 Network Solutions 56 50 34 Wireless Systems 99 92 82 Undersea Telecommunications 24 23 22 Total $ 520 $ 467 $ 424 Our research, development, and engineering efforts are supported by approximately 8,000 engineers. These engineers work closely with our customers to develop application specific, highly engineered products and systems to satisfy the customers' needs. Our new products, including product extensions introduced during the past year, comprised approximately 15% of our net sales for fiscal 2007. Sales, Marketing, and Distribution We sell our products into more than 150 countries, and we sell primarily through direct selling efforts. We also sell some of our products indirectly via third-party distributors. In fiscal 2007, our direct sales represented 84% of net sales, with the remainder of net sales provided by sales to third-party distributors and independent manufacturer representatives. We maintain distribution centers around the world. Products are generally delivered to these distribution centers by our manufacturing facilities and then subsequently delivered to the customer. In some instances, product is delivered directly from our manufacturing facility to the customer. We contract with a wide range of transport providers to deliver our products via road, rail, sea, and air. 8 Seasonality and Backlog Customer orders typically fluctuate from quarter to quarter based upon business conditions and because unfilled orders may be canceled prior to shipment of goods. We experience a slight seasonal pattern to our business. The third fiscal quarter is typically the strongest quarter of our fiscal year, while the first fiscal quarter is negatively affected by winter holidays and the fourth fiscal quarter is negatively affected by European holidays. The second fiscal quarter is also affected by adverse winter weather conditions in certain of our end markets. Backlog by reportable segment at fiscal year end 2007 and 2006 was as follows: Fiscal 2007 2006 (in millions) Electronics Components $ 1,663 $ 1,513 Network Solutions 277 249 Wireless Systems 474 512 Undersea Telecommunications 560 327 Total $ 2,974 $ 2,601 We expect that the majority of our backlog at September 28, 2007 will be filled during fiscal 2008. Competition The industries in which we operate are highly competitive, and we compete with thousands of companies that range from large multinational corporations to local manufacturers. Competition is generally on the basis of breadth of product offering, product innovation, price, quality, and service. Our markets have generally been growing but with downward pressure on prices. •Electronic Components. This segment competes against numerous companies, including Molex, Amphenol, FCI, JST, and Omron. •Network Solutions. This segment's major competitors include Corning, Commscope, and 3M. •Wireless Systems. This segment's land mobile radio business competes primarily against Motorola. Our radio frequency component and subassembly products face a wide variety of competitors, including Herley, RF Micro Devices, Skyworks, and TriQuint. •Undersea Telecommunications. This segment primarily competes with Alcatel-Lucent. Intellectual Property Patents and other proprietary rights are important to our business. We also rely upon trade secrets, manufacturing know-how, continuing technological innovations, and licensing opportunities to maintain and improve our competitive position. We review third-party proprietary rights, including patents and patent applications, as available, in an effort to develop an effective intellectual property strategy, avoid infringement of third-party proprietary rights, identify licensing opportunities, and monitor the intellectual property claims of others. We own a large portfolio of patents that principally relate to electrical and electronic products. We also own a portfolio of trademarks and are a licensee of various patents and trademarks. Patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. Trademark rights may potentially extend for longer periods of time and are dependent upon national laws and use of the trademarks. 9 While we consider our patents and trademarks to be valued assets, we do not believe that our competitive position is dependent on patent or trademark protection or that our operations are dependent upon any single patent or group of related patents. Employees As of September 28, 2007, we employed approximately 94,000 people worldwide, of whom 29,000 were in the Americas region, 27,000 were in the Europe/Middle East/Africa region, and 38,000 were in the Asia-Pacific region. Of our total employees, approximately 58,000 were employed in manufacturing and 22,000 were represented by collective bargaining agreements. Approximately 55% of our employees were based in low cost countries, primarily China. We believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory. Government Regulation and Supervision The import and export of products are subject to regulation by the United States and other countries. A small portion of our products, including defense-related products, may require governmental import and export licenses, whose issuance may be influenced by geopolitical and other events. We have a trade compliance organization and other systems in place to apply for licenses and otherwise comply with such regulations. Any failure to maintain compliance with domestic and foreign trade regulation could limit our ability to import and export raw materials and finished goods into or from the relevant jurisdiction. Environmental We are committed to complying with all applicable environmental, health, and safety laws and to the protection of our employees and the environment. We maintain a global environmental, health, and safety program that includes appropriate policies and standards, staff dedicated to environmental, health, and safety issues, periodic compliance auditing, training, and other measures. We have a program for compliance with the European Union ("EU") RoHS and WEEE Directives, the China RoHS law, and similar laws. We have projects underway at a number of current and former manufacturing facilities to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from past operations. Based upon our experience, current information and applicable laws, we believe that it is probable that we will incur remedial costs in the range of approximately $12 million to $23 million. As of September 28, 2007, we believe that the best estimate within this range is approximately $16 million. Available Information All periodic and current reports, registration filings, and other filings that we are required to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including this Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act") are available free of charge through our internet website at www.tycoelectronics.com. Such documents are available as soon as reasonably practicable after electronic filing or furnishing of the material with the SEC. The public may also read and copy any document that we file, including this Annual Report on Form 10-K, at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. Investors may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an internet site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, from which investors can electronically access our SEC filings. 10 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our securities. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Our business is also subject to risks that affect many other companies, such as competition, technological obsolescence, labor relations, general economic conditions, geopolitical events, and international operations. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Risks Relating to Our Business We face the following risks in connection with the general conditions and trends of our industry and the end markets we serve. We encounter competition in substantially all areas of the electronic components industry. We operate in highly competitive markets for electronic components. The competition we experience across product lines from other companies ranges in size from large, diversified manufacturers to small, highly specialized manufacturers. The electronic components industry has continued to become increasingly concentrated and globalized in recent years, and our major competitors have significant financial resources and technological capabilities. A number of these competitors compete with us primarily on price, and in some instances may enjoy lower production costs for certain products. We cannot assure you that additional competitors will not enter our markets, or that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or new competitors. We are dependent on market acceptance of new product introductions and product innovations for continued revenue growth. The markets in which we operate are subject to rapid technological change. Our long-term operating results depend substantially upon our ability to continually develop, introduce, and market new and innovative products, to modify existing products, to respond to technological change, and to customize certain products to meet customer requirements. There are numerous risks inherent in this process, including the risks that we will be unable to anticipate the direction of technological change or that we will be unable to develop and market new products and applications in a timely fashion to satisfy customer demands. Like other suppliers to the electronics industry, we are subject to continuing pressure to lower our prices. Over the past several years we have experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, pressure each year to lower our prices. In recent years, we have experienced price erosion averaging from 2% to 4%. In order to maintain our margins, we must continue to reduce our costs by similar amounts. We cannot assure you that continuing pressures to reduce our prices will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The life cycles of our products can be very short. The life cycles of certain of our products can be very short relative to the development cycles. As a result, the resources devoted to product sales and marketing may not result in material revenue, and, from time to time, we may need to write off excess or obsolete inventory or equipment. If we were to incur significant engineering expenses and investments in inventory and equipment that we were not able to recover and we were not able to compensate for those expenses, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows would be materially and adversely affected. 11 Divestitures of some of our businesses or product lines may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. In addition to our announced divestiture of Power Systems, we continue to evaluate the performance of all of our businesses and may sell businesses or product lines. Any divestitures may result in significant write-offs, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Divestitures could involve additional risks, including difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, the disruption of our business, and the potential loss of key employees. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in addressing these or any other significant risks encountered. We may be negatively affected as our customers and vendors continue to consolidate their supply base. Many of the industries to which we sell our products, as well as many of the industries from which we buy materials, have become increasingly concentrated in recent years, including the automotive, telecommunications, computer, and aerospace and defense industries. As our customers buy in larger volumes, their volume buying power has increased, and they have been able to negotiate more favorable pricing and find alternative sources from which to purchase. Our materials suppliers similarly have increased their ability to negotiate favorable pricing. These trends may adversely affect the profit margins on our products, particularly for commodity components. We are dependent on the automotive industry. Approximately 30% of our net sales for fiscal 2007 were to customers in the automotive industry. The automotive market is dominated by several large manufacturers that can exert significant price pressure on their suppliers. In addition, as a supplier of automotive electronics products, our sales of these products and our profitability could be negatively affected by changes in the operations, products, business models, part-sourcing requirements, financial condition, and market share of automobile manufacturers. Demand for our automotive products also is linked to consumer demand for automobiles, which may be adversely affected by negative trends in consumer demand. We are dependent on the telecommunications, computer, and consumer electronics industries. Approximately 19% of our net sales for fiscal 2007 came from sales to the telecommunications industry. Demand for these products is subject to rapid technological change. These markets are dominated by several large manufacturers who can exert significant price pressure on their suppliers. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete successfully in the telecommunications industry, and our failure to do so would materially impair our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Approximately 10% of our net sales for fiscal 2007 came from sales to the computer and consumer electronics industries. Demand for our computer and consumer electronics products depends primarily on underlying business and consumer demand for new computer and consumer electronics products. The amount of this demand and therefore our sales and profitability will be affected by a variety of factors, including the rate of technological change, degree of consumer acceptance of new products, and general economic conditions. We cannot assure you that existing levels of business and consumer demand for new computer and consumer electronics products will not decrease. 12 Cyclical industry and economic conditions may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We are heavily dependent on the end-market industry dynamics for our products, and our operating results can be adversely affected by the cyclical demand patterns of these markets. For example, the telecommunications industry, which accounted for approximately 19% of our net sales in fiscal 2007, has historically experienced periods of robust capital expenditure followed by periods of retrenchment and consolidation. The aerospace and defense industry, which accounted for 5% of our net sales in fiscal 2007, has similarly undergone significant fluctuations in demand, depending on worldwide economic and political conditions. These periodic downturns in our customers' industries can significantly reduce demand for certain of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our results are sensitive to raw material availability, quality, and cost. We are a large buyer of resin, copper, gold, brass, steel, chemicals and additives, and zinc. Many of these raw materials are produced in a limited number of regions around the world or are only available from a limited number of suppliers. In addition, the price of many of these raw materials, including copper and gold, has increased dramatically in recent years. Over the last three years, we have only been able partially to offset these increases through higher selling prices. Our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected if we have difficulty obtaining these raw materials, the quality of available raw materials deteriorates, or there are continued significant price increases for these raw materials. Any of these events could have a substantial impact on the price we pay for raw materials and, to the extent we cannot compensate for cost increases through productivity improvements or price increases to our customers, our margins may decline, materially affecting our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results. We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Approximately 67% of our net sales for fiscal 2007 were derived from sales in non-U.S. markets, and we expect revenue from non-U.S. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our net revenue. Therefore, when the U.S. dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of the countries where we sell our products, such as the euro, our U.S. dollar reported revenue and income will decrease. Changes in the relative values of currencies occur from time to time and, in some instances, may have a significant effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We manage this risk in part by entering into financial derivative contracts. In addition to the risk of non-performance by the counterparty to the contracts, our efforts to manage these risks might not be successful. We may use components and products manufactured by third parties. We may rely on third-party suppliers for the components used in our products, and we may rely on third-party manufacturers to manufacture certain of our assemblies and finished products. Our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected if such third parties lack sufficient quality control or if there are significant changes in their financial or business condition. We also have third-party arrangements for the manufacture of certain products, parts, and components. If these third parties fail to deliver quality products, parts, and components on time and at reasonable prices, we could have difficulties fulfilling our orders, sales and profits could decline, and our commercial reputation could be damaged. 13 Our future success is substantially dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, managerial, marketing, finance, and administrative personnel. Our success depends upon our continued ability to hire and retain key employees at our operations around the world. We depend on highly skilled technical personnel to design, manufacture, and support our wide range of electronic components. Additionally, we rely upon experienced managerial, marketing, and support personnel to manage our business effectively and to successfully promote our wide range of products. Any difficulties in obtaining or retaining the necessary global management, technical, and human resource skills to achieve our objectives may have adverse affects on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. If any of our operations are found not to comply with applicable antitrust or competition laws, our business may suffer. Our operations are subject to applicable antitrust and competition laws in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business, in particular the United States and the European Union. These laws prohibit, among other things, anticompetitive agreements and practices. If any of our commercial, including distribution, agreements and practices with respect to the electrical components or other markets is found to violate or infringe such laws, we may be subject to civil and other penalties. We also may be subject to third party claims for damages. Further, agreements that infringe these antitrust and competition laws may be void and unenforceable, in whole or in part, or require modification in order to be lawful and enforceable. If we are unable to enforce any of our commercial agreements, whether at all or in material part, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected. We are subject to the risks of political, economic, and military instability in countries outside the United States. Non-U.S. markets account for a substantial portion of our business. During fiscal 2007, non-U.S. markets constituted over 67% of our net sales. We employ more than 77% of our workforce outside the United States. Our customers are located throughout the world and we have many manufacturing, administrative, and sales facilities outside the United States. Because of our extensive non-U.S. operations, we are exposed to risks that could negatively affect sales or profitability, including: •tariffs, trade barriers, and trade disputes; •regulations related to customs and import/export matters; •longer payment cycles; •tax issues, such as tax law changes, examinations by taxing authorities, variations in tax laws from country to country as compared to the United States, and difficulties in repatriating in a tax-efficient manner cash generated or held abroad; •challenges in collecting accounts receivable; •employment regulations and local labor conditions; •difficulties protecting intellectual property; •instability in economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession, and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; and •the impact of each of the foregoing on our outsourcing and procurement arrangements. Many of our products that are manufactured outside of the United States are manufactured in Asia. In particular, we have sizeable operations in China, including manufacturing operations, and in fiscal 2007 12% of our net sales were made to customers in China. The legal system in China is still 14 developing and is subject to change. Accordingly, our operations and orders for products in China could be adversely affected by changes to or interpretation of Chinese law. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Despite our training and compliance program, we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, litigation, and violations. We are subject to numerous federal, state, local, and non-U.S. environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things: •the generation, storage, use, and transportation of hazardous materials; •emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; •investigation and remediation of hazardous substances or materials at various sites; and •the health and safety of our employees. We may not have been, or we may not at all times be, in compliance with environmental and health and safety laws. If we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged, or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. Environmental laws outside of the United States are becoming more stringent, resulting in increased costs and compliance burdens. Certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the costs of investigation, removal, or remediation of hazardous substances or materials at their properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. Liability for investigative, removal, and remedial costs under certain federal and state laws are retroactive, strict, and joint and several. In addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. We have received notification from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and similar state environmental agencies that conditions at a number of formerly owned sites where we and others have disposed of hazardous substances require investigation, cleanup, and other possible remedial action and may require that we reimburse the government or otherwise pay for the costs of investigation and remediation and for natural resource damage claims from such sites. While we plan for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with environmental laws, we cannot assure you that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations or that we will not be subject to additional environmental claims for personal injury or cleanup in the future based on our past, present, or future business activities. 15 Our products are subject to various requirements related to chemical usage, hazardous material content, and recycling. The EU, China, and other jurisdictions in which our products are sold have enacted or are proposing to enact laws addressing environmental and other impacts from product disposal, use of hazardous materials in products, use of chemicals in manufacturing, recycling of products at the end of their useful life, and other related matters. These laws include the EU Restriction on Hazardous Substances, End of Life Vehicle and Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directives, the EU REACH (chemical registration) Directive, the China law on Management Methods for Controlling Pollution by Electronic Information Products, and various other laws. These laws prohibit the use of certain substances in the manufacture of our products and directly and indirectly impose a variety of requirements for modification of manufacturing processes, registration, chemical testing, labeling, and other matters. We cannot predict the extent to which these laws will proliferate in other jurisdictions or expand to address other materials or other aspects of our product manufacturing and sale. These laws could make manufacture or sale of our products more expensive or impossible and could limit our ability to sell our products in certain jurisdictions. We are a defendant to a variety of litigation in the course of our business that could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. In the ordinary course of business, we are a defendant in litigation, including litigation alleging the infringement of intellectual property rights, anti-competitive behavior, and product liability. In certain circumstances, patent infringement and anti-trust laws permit successful plaintiffs to recover treble damages. The defense of these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. In addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us. Our bank credit agreements contain financial and other covenants, such as a limit on the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, and limits on subsidiary debt and incurrence of liens. Our outstanding indentures contain customary covenants including limits on incurrence of liens, sale and lease-back transactions, and our ability to consolidate, merge, and sell assets. Although we believe none of these covenants are presently restrictive to our operations, our ability to meet the financial covenant can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to comply with the covenant. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreements or indentures. Upon the occurrence of certain defaults under our credit facilities and indentures, the lenders or trustee could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and our lenders could terminate commitments to extend further credit under our bank credit facility. If the lenders or trustee accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our credit facilities and our other affected indebtedness. Acceleration of any debt obligation under any of our material debt instruments may permit the holders or trustee of our other material debt to accelerate payment of debt obligations to the creditors thereunder. Our indentures governing our outstanding senior notes contain covenants that may require us to offer to buy back the notes for a price equal to 101% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, to the repurchase date, upon a change of control triggering event (as defined in the indentures). We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient funds available to repurchase the notes in that event, which could result in a default under the notes. Any future debt that we incur may contain covenants regarding repurchases in the event of a change of control triggering event. 16 Downgrades of our debt ratings could adversely affect us. Certain downgrades by Moody's, Standard & Poor's, and Fitch may increase our cost of borrowing and make it more difficult for us to obtain new financing. Future acquisitions may not be successful. We will continue to investigate the acquisition of strategic businesses or product lines with the potential to strengthen our market position or enhance our existing product offering. We cannot assure you, however, that we will identify or successfully complete transactions with suitable acquisition candidates in the future. Nor can we assure you that completed acquisitions will be successful. If an acquired business fails to operate as anticipated or cannot be successfully integrated with our existing business, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Future acquisitions could require us to issue additional debt or equity. If we were to undertake a substantial acquisition for cash, the acquisition would likely need to be financed in part through additional financing from banks, through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, or other arrangements. This acquisition financing might decrease our ratio of earnings to fixed charges and adversely affect other leverage measures. We cannot assure you that the necessary acquisition financing would be available to us on acceptable terms if and when required. If we were to undertake an acquisition by issuing equity securities or equity-linked securities, the issued securities may have a dilutive effect on the interests of the holders of our common shares. Our ability to compete effectively depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology. The electronics industry is characterized by litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Within this industry, companies have become more aggressive in asserting and defending patent claims against competitors. There can be no assurance that we will not be subject to future litigation alleging intellectual property rights infringement or that we will not pursue litigation to protect our property rights. Depending on the size and importance of the patent or trademark in question, an unfavorable outcome regarding one of these matters may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Risks Relating to Our Separation from Tyco International Our historical combined financial information is not necessarily representative of the results we would have achieved as an independent, publicly-traded company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. Our historical combined financial information for periods prior to our separation from Tyco International does not necessarily reflect the financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows that we would have achieved as an independent, publicly-traded company during the periods presented or those that we will achieve in the future, primarily as a result of the following factors: •Prior to our separation, our business was operated by Tyco International as part of its broader corporate organization, rather than as an independent, publicly-traded company. In addition, prior to our separation, Tyco International and its affiliates performed significant corporate functions for us, including tax and treasury administration and certain governance functions, including internal audit and external reporting. Our historical Combined Financial Statements reflect allocations of corporate expenses from Tyco International for these and similar functions. 17 •Our working capital requirements and capital for our general corporate purposes, including acquisitions and capital expenditures, historically were satisfied as part of the company-wide cash management practices of Tyco International. As an independent company, we must obtain financing from banks, through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, or other arrangements. •Other significant changes may occur in our cost structure, management, financing, and business operations because we are operating as a company separate from Tyco International. We are responsible for a portion of Tyco International's contingent and other corporate liabilities, including those relating to shareholder litigation. Under the Separation and Distribution Agreement and other agreements, subject to certain exceptions contained in the Tax Sharing Agreement, we, Covidien Ltd. ("Covidien"), and Tyco International have agreed to assume and be responsible for 31%, 42%, and 27%, respectively, of certain of Tyco International's contingent and other corporate liabilities. All costs and expenses associated with the management of these contingent and other corporate liabilities are shared equally among the parties. These contingent and other corporate liabilities primarily relate to consolidated securities litigation, any actions with respect to the separation plan or the distribution brought by any third party and tax liabilities for periods prior to and including the distribution date, June 29, 2007. For more information on the contingent tax liabilities, see "We share responsibility for certain of our, Tyco International's, and Covidien's income tax liabilities for tax periods prior to and including the distribution date." Contingent and other corporate liabilities do not include liabilities that are specifically related to one of the three separated companies, which were allocated 100% to the relevant company. If any party responsible for such liabilities were to default in its payment, when due, of any of these assumed obligations, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay equally with any other non-defaulting party the amounts in default. Accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of the assumed obligations related to such contingent and other corporate liabilities, including associated costs and expenses. Many lawsuits are outstanding against Tyco International, some of which relate to actions taken by Tyco International's former senior corporate management. On May 14, 2007, Tyco International entered into a proposed settlement with respect to most of its outstanding securities class action litigation. We do not believe that it is feasible to predict the final outcome or resolution of the unresolved proceedings. Although we will share any costs and expenses arising out of this litigation and any settlement thereof with Tyco International and Covidien, a failure to consummate the proposed settlement on the agreed terms or an adverse outcome from the unresolved proceedings or liabilities or other proceedings for which we have assumed joint and several liability under the Separation and Distribution Agreement could be material with respect to our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows in any given reporting period. Tyco International has the right to control the defense and settlement of the class action settlement and other outstanding litigation, subject to certain limitations. The timing, nature, and amount of the class action settlement or any other settlement may not be in our best interests. Furthermore, in the event of any subsequent settlement, we may have limited notice before we would be required to pay our portion of the settlement amount. Moreover, Tyco International stipulated, pursuant to a court order, that we, Tyco International, and Covidien each will be primarily liable for a portion of the obligations arising from the Tyco International shareholder litigation. The stipulation also provides that if any party defaults on its obligations, the other parties are jointly and severally liable for the defaulting party's obligations. In accordance with the stipulation, we, Covidien, and Tyco International agreed to assume and be responsible for 31%, 42%, and 27%, respectively, of the obligations arising from the Tyco International shareholder litigation. 18 We share responsibility for certain of our, Tyco International's and Covidien's income tax liabilities for tax periods prior to and including the distribution date. Under the Tax Sharing Agreement, we share responsibility for certain of our, Tyco International's, and Covidien's income tax liabilities based on a sharing formula for periods prior to and including June 29, 2007. More specifically, we, Tyco International and Covidien share 31%, 27%, and 42%, respectively, of U.S. income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to our, Tyco International's, and Covidien's U.S. income tax returns, certain income tax liabilities arising from adjustments made by tax authorities to intercompany transactions or similar adjustments, and certain taxes attributable to internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation. All costs and expenses associated with the management of these shared tax liabilities will be shared equally among the parties. We are responsible for all of our own taxes that are not shared pursuant to the Tax Sharing Agreement's sharing formula. In addition, Tyco International and Covidien are responsible for their tax liabilities that are not subject to the Tax Sharing Agreement's sharing formula. All the tax liabilities that are associated with our businesses, including liabilities that arose prior to our separation from Tyco International, have become our tax liabilities. Although we have agreed to share certain of these tax liabilities with Tyco International and Covidien pursuant to the Tax Sharing Agreement, we remain primarily liable for all of these liabilities. If Tyco International and Covidien default on their obligations to us under the Tax Sharing Agreement, we would be liable for the entire amount of these liabilities. If any party to the Tax Sharing Agreement were to default in its obligation to another party to pay its share of the distribution taxes that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay, equally with any other non-defaulting party, the amounts in default. In addition, if another party to the Tax Sharing Agreement that is responsible for all or a portion of an income tax liability were to default in its payment of such liability to a taxing authority, we could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. Accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of our, Tyco International's, and Covidien's tax liabilities. Our, Tyco International's, and Covidien's income tax returns are examined periodically by various tax authorities. In connection with such examinations, tax authorities, including the U.S. Internal Revenue Service ("IRS"), have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments. We are reviewing and contesting certain of the proposed tax adjustments. Amounts related to these tax adjustments and other tax contingencies that we have assessed as probable and estimable have been reflected as a liability in the Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with the uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. We recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the United States and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional income taxes will be due. These tax liabilities are reflected net of related tax loss carryforwards. We adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of tax liabilities. Under the Tax Sharing Agreement, Tyco International has the right to administer, control, and settle all U.S. income tax audits for periods prior to and including June 29, 2007. The timing, nature, and amount of any settlement agreed to by Tyco International may not be in our best interests. Moreover, the other parties to the Tax Sharing Agreement will be able to remove Tyco International as the controlling party only under limited circumstances, including a change of control or bankruptcy of Tyco International, or by a majority vote of the parties on or after the second anniversary of the distribution. All other tax audits will be administered, controlled, and settled by the party that would be responsible for paying the tax. 19 The ownership by our executive officers and some of our directors of common shares, options, or other equity awards of Tyco International or Covidien may create, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest. Because of their former positions with Tyco International, substantially all of our executive officers, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, and one of our non-employee directors, own common shares of Tyco International, options to purchase common shares of Tyco International, or other Tyco International equity awards, as well as common shares, options to purchase common shares, and other equity awards of Covidien. The individual holdings of common shares, options to purchase common shares, or other equity awards of Tyco International and Covidien may be significant for some of these persons compared to their total assets. These equity interests may create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest when these directors and officers are faced with decisions that could benefit or affect the equity holders of Tyco International or Covidien in ways that do not benefit or affect us in the same manner. If the distribution or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation are determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. Tyco International received private letter rulings from the IRS regarding the U.S. federal income tax consequences of the distribution of our common shares and Covidien common shares to the Tyco International shareholders substantially to the effect that the distribution, except for cash received in lieu of a fractional share of our common shares and the Covidien common shares, will qualify as tax-free under Sections 368(a)(1)(D) and 355 of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code"). The private letter rulings also provided that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation would qualify for favorable treatment under the Code. In addition to obtaining the private letter rulings, Tyco International obtained opinions from the law firm of McDermott Will & Emery LLP confirming the tax-free status of the distribution and certain internal transactions. The private letter rulings and the opinions relied on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations and undertakings, from us, Covidien, and Tyco International regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. Notwithstanding the private letter rulings and the opinions, the IRS could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations, or undertakings are not correct or have been violated, or that the distributions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in stock or asset ownership after the distribution. If the distribution ultimately is determined to be taxable, Tyco International would recognize gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of our common shares and Covidien common shares distributed to Tyco International shareholders on the distribution date over Tyco International's tax basis in such common shares, but such gain, if recognized, generally would not be subject to U.S. federal income tax. However, we would incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities if it is ultimately determined that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation should be treated as taxable transactions. In addition, under the terms of the Tax Sharing Agreement, in the event the distribution or the internal transactions were determined to be taxable and such determination was the result of actions taken after the distribution by us, Covidien, or Tyco International, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed on us, Covidien, or Tyco International as a result thereof. If such determination is not the result of actions taken after the distribution by us, Covidien, or Tyco International, then we, Covidien, and Tyco International would be responsible for 31%, 42%, and 27%, respectively, of any taxes imposed on us, Covidien, or Tyco International as a result of such determination. Such tax amounts could be significant. In the event that any party to the Tax Sharing Agreement defaults in its obligation to pay distribution taxes to another party that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be responsible for an equal amount of the defaulting party's obligation to make a payment to another party in respect of such other party's taxes. 20 In some cases, we might have received better terms from unaffiliated third parties than the terms we received in our agreements with Tyco International and Covidien. The agreements related to our separation from Tyco International and Covidien, including the Separation and Distribution Agreement and the Tax Sharing Agreement, were negotiated in the context of our separation from Tyco International while we were still part of Tyco International and, accordingly, may not reflect terms that would have resulted from arm's-length negotiations among unaffiliated third parties. The separation agreements were approved in consideration of the best interests of Tyco International's shareholders and may conflict with the interests of our securityholders. If we fail to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley, our business prospects and the value of our securities could be adversely affected. Under the rules and regulations of the SEC, we are not required to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 until we file our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending September 26, 2008, so long as we continue to meet the definition of a non-accelerated filer. In our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending September 26, 2008, management and our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to comply with these obligations or experience delays in reports of our management and outside auditors on our internal control over financial reporting, we might be unable to file timely with the SEC our annual or periodic reports and might be subject to regulatory and enforcement actions by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE"), including delisting from the NYSE, securities litigation, events of default under our credit agreements, debt rating agency downgrades or rating withdrawals, and a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could adversely affect the value of our securities and could adversely affect our business prospects. Subsequent to the filing of our Combined Financial Statements for fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004 in the initial filing of our registration statement on Form 10 with the SEC, we determined that our Combined Financial Statements contained certain errors. The errors primarily resulted from the process of carving out certain income tax accounts from Tyco International's consolidated financial statements and related information. We substantially relied upon the processes at Tyco International to prepare our carve-out accounts for income taxes. We have determined that certain of those tax processes utilized by Tyco International in determining certain carve-out amounts for income taxes did not operate at a sufficient level of precision relative to our materiality for us to ensure that the carve-out accounts were materially correct. Concurrently, we determined that we did not have sufficient control processes in place to ensure that the information provided by Tyco International was complete and accurate and have concluded that the absence of these control processes was a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to income taxes. As of September 28, 2007, we evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and concluded the material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting relating to accounting for income taxes has not been fully remediated. We are continuing to build our tax accounting resources and capabilities to remediate this material weakness, and are implementing new control processes and procedures as part of our efforts to become compliant with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We might not be able to engage in desirable strategic transactions and equity issuances because of restrictions relating to U.S. federal income tax requirements for tax-free distributions. Our ability to engage in significant equity transactions could be limited or restricted in order to preserve for U.S. federal income tax purposes the tax-free nature of the distribution by Tyco International. Similar limitations and restrictions apply to Covidien and Tyco International. The distribution may result in corporate level taxable gain to Tyco International under Section 355(e) of the Code if 50% or more, by vote or value, of our common shares, Covidien's common shares, or Tyco 21 International's common shares are acquired or issued as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the distribution. For this purpose, any acquisitions or issuances of Tyco International's common shares within two years before the distribution, and any acquisitions or issuances of our common shares, Covidien's common shares, or Tyco International's common shares within two years after the distribution, generally are presumed to be part of such a plan, although we, Covidien, or Tyco International may be able to rebut that presumption. We are not aware of any such acquisitions or issuances of Tyco International's common shares within the two years before the distribution. If an acquisition or issuance of our common shares, Covidien's common shares, or Tyco International's common shares triggers the application of Section 355(e) of the Code, Tyco International would recognize taxable gain as described above, but such gain generally would not be subject to U.S. federal income tax. However, certain subsidiaries of Covidien or Tyco International or subsidiaries of ours would incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities as a result of the application of Section 355(e) of the Code. Under the Tax Sharing Agreement, there are restrictions on our ability to take actions that could cause the distribution or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation to fail to qualify as tax-favored transactions, including entering into, approving, or allowing any transaction that results in a change in ownership of more than 35% of our common shares, a redemption of equity securities, a sale or other disposition of a substantial portion of our assets, an acquisition of a business or assets with equity securities to the extent one or more persons would acquire 35% or more of our common shares, or engaging in certain internal transactions. These restrictions apply for the two-year period after the distribution, unless we obtain the consent of the other parties or we obtain a private letter ruling from the IRS or an unqualified opinion of a nationally recognized law firm that such action will not cause the distribution or the internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation to fail to qualify as tax-favored transactions, and such letter ruling or opinion, as the case may be, is acceptable to the parties. Covidien and Tyco International are subject to similar restrictions under the Tax Sharing Agreement. Moreover, the Tax Sharing Agreement generally provides that a party thereto is responsible for any taxes imposed on any other party thereto as a result of the failure of the distribution or certain internal transactions to qualify as a tax-favored transaction under the Code if such failure is attributable to certain post-distribution actions taken by or in respect of the responsible party or its shareholders, regardless of whether the actions occur more than two years after the distribution, the other parties consent to such actions or such party obtains a favorable letter ruling or opinion of tax counsel as described above. For example, we would be responsible for a third party's acquisition of us at a time and in a manner that would cause such failure. These restrictions may prevent us from entering into transactions which might be advantageous to our securityholders. Risks Relating to Our Jurisdictions of Incorporation Legislation and negative publicity regarding Bermuda companies could increase our tax burden and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Tax Legislation We continue to assess the impact of various U.S. federal and state legislative proposals, and modifications to existing tax treaties between the United States and foreign countries, that could result in a material increase in our U.S. federal and state taxes. The U.S. Congress has in the past considered legislation affecting the tax treatment of U.S. companies that have undertaken certain types of expatriation transactions or companies' use of or relocation to offshore jurisdictions, including Bermuda. In October 2004, the U.S. Congress enacted such legislation, which did not, however, retroactively apply to us. We continue to assess the impact of the potential for U.S. federal legislative proposals relating to deductible payments from U.S. subsidiaries to foreign parents, as well as the impact of a recently released U.S. Treasury Department study. Concern about such deductible payments could result in tax proposals being introduced or modified in the U.S. Congress in the future and we 22 cannot assure you that these proposals would not have adverse effects on us if enacted. Such adverse effects could include substantially reducing the tax benefits of our corporate structure, materially increasing our tax burden or otherwise adversely affecting our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Negative Publicity There is continuing negative publicity regarding, and criticism of, U.S. companies' use of, or relocation to, offshore jurisdictions, including Bermuda. As a Bermuda company, this negative publicity could harm our reputation and impair our ability to generate new business if companies or governmental agencies decline to do business with us as a result of any perceived negative public image of Bermuda companies or the possibility of our customers receiving negative media attention from doing business with a Bermuda company. Legislation Relating to Governmental Contracts Various U.S. federal and state legislative proposals that would deny governmental contracts to U.S. companies that move their corporate location abroad may affect us. The U.S. federal government and various states and municipalities have proposed or may propose legislation that would deny governmental contracts to U.S. companies that move their corporate location abroad. We are unable to predict the likelihood that, or final form in which, any such proposed legislation might become law, the nature of regulations that may be promulgated under any future legislative enactments, or the effect such enactments and increased regulatory scrutiny may have on our business. We are unable to predict whether the final form of the proposed legislation discussed above also would affect our indirect sales to the U.S. federal or state governments or the willingness of our non-governmental customers to do business with us. As a result of these uncertainties, we are unable to assess the potential impact on us of any proposed legislation in this area and cannot assure you that the impact will not be materially adverse. Bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. We are organized under the laws of Bermuda. It may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the United States against us in Bermuda based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws. In addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of Bermuda would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. We have been advised that the United States and Bermuda currently do not have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any U.S. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on U.S. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in Bermuda. As a Bermuda company, we are governed by the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to United States corporations and shareholders, including differences relating to interested director and officer transactions, shareholder lawsuits, and indemnification. Likewise, the duties of directors and officers of a Bermuda company generally are owed to the company only. Shareholders of Bermuda companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. Under Bermuda law, a company also may agree to indemnify directors and officers for any personal liability, not involving fraud or dishonesty, incurred in relation to the company. Thus, holders of our securities may have more 23 difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States. Risks Relating to Our Common Shares The market price of our common shares may fluctuate widely. The market price of our common shares may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, including: •our quarterly or annual earnings; •changes in quarterly or annual sales or earnings guidance that we may provide; •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; •changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations, or principles; •announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; •changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; •the operating and stock price performance of comparable companies; and •overall market fluctuations and general economic conditions. Investors may be unable to accurately value our common shares. Investors often value companies based on the stock prices and results of operations of comparable companies. Currently, no public company exists that is directly comparable to our size, scale and product offerings. For these reasons, investors may find it difficult to accurately value our common shares, which may cause our common shares to trade below our true value. Certain provisions of our bye-laws may reduce the likelihood of any unsolicited acquisition proposal or potential change of control that you might consider favorable. Our bye-laws contain provisions that could be considered "anti-takeover" provisions because they make it harder for a third-party to acquire us without the consent of our incumbent board of directors. Under these bye-law provisions: •shareholders may not remove directors without cause, change the size of the board of directors or, except in limited circumstances, fill vacancies on the board of directors; •shareholders may act only at shareholder meetings and not by written consent; •shareholders must comply with advance notice provisions for nominating directors or presenting other proposals at shareholder meetings; •restrictions will apply to any merger or other business combination (including an amalgamation under Bermuda law) between our company and any holder of 15% or more of our issued voting shares who became such without the prior approval of our board of directors; and •our board of directors may without shareholder approval issue preferred shares and determine their rights and terms, including voting rights, or adopt a shareholder rights plan. These provisions, which may only be amended by the affirmative vote of the holders of 80% of our issued voting shares, could have the effect of discouraging an unsolicited acquisition proposal or delaying, deferring, or preventing a change of control transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be considered favorably by our shareholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 24 