D. RISK FACTORS We believe that the occurrence of any one or some combination of the following factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 8 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Business We operate in a heavily regulated industry, which can harm our results of operations. In recent years, regulation in Israel has materially adversely affected our results. A substantial part of our operations is subject to the Israeli Communications Law, 1982, the Israeli Wireless Telegraph Ordinance (New Version), 1972, the regulations promulgated thereunder and the licenses for the provision of different telecommunications services that we received from the Ministry of Communications in accordance with the Communications Law. The interpretation and implementation of the Communications Law, Wireless Telegraph Ordinance and regulations and the provisions of our general licenses, as well as our other licenses, are not certain and subject to change, and disagreements have arisen and may arise in the future between the Ministry of Communications, or MOC, and us. The Communications Law and regulations thereunder grant the Ministry of Communications extensive regulatory and supervisory authority with regard to our activities, as well as the authority to impose substantial sanctions in the event of a breach of our licenses or the applicable laws and regulations. Further, in the event that we materially violate the terms of our licenses, the Ministry of Communications has the authority to revoke them. Our operations are also subject to the regulatory and supervisory authority of other Israeli regulators which have the authority to impose criminal and administrative sanctions against us. Our general cellular license is valid until February 2022. It may be extended for additional six-year periods upon our request to the Ministry of Communications and confirmation from the Ministry of Communications that we have complied with the provisions of our license and the applicable law, have continuously invested in the improvement of our service and network and have demonstrated the ability to do so in the future. Netvision's Internet Service Provider, or ISP, license and International Long Distance, or ILD, license, are valid until April 2017 and May 2025, respectively and may be extended for additional five and ten year periods, respectively, on terms similar to those provided in our cellular license. Our other licenses are also limited in time. Our licenses may not be extended when necessary, or, if extended, the extensions may be granted on terms that are not favorable to us. In addition, the Ministry of Communications has modified and may modify our licenses without our consent and in a manner that could limit our freedom to conduct our business and harm our results of operations. Possible changes to our licenses and legislation which would require us to change our pricing plans and information systems frequently or on a timetable we cannot meet, can increase the risk of noncompliance with our licenses or violation of such legislation and our exposure to lawsuits and regulatory sanctions. Further, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by new legislation and decisions by regulators or the courts that: · do not approve the network and site sharing agreements we entered with Pelephone communications Ltd., or Pelephone, and Golan Telecom Ltd., or Golan, our competitors, or approve them subject to conditions that are adverse to us, more so if the regulators do approve a similar agreement between our other competitors, or provide such approval on an earlier date than for our agreements or under more lenient terms. For additional details, see "- We face intense competition in all aspects of our business" and "We may be adversely affected by the significant technological and other changes in the cellular communications industry; network sharing agreements, if approved, may have material adverse effects on our business" below and "Item 4. Information on The Company – B. Business Overview – Network and Technology - Network and Cell Sites Sharing Agreements" and "-Competition"; 9 Table of Contents · reduce tariffs, or otherwise intervene in the pricing policies for our products and services, including by: intervening in pricing of bundles of services or roaming services, or prohibiting subscription or other fees for certain services. For additional details regarding such steps already implemented and outstanding hearings see "Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview – Government Regulations – Tariff Supervision" and "Item 4. Information on The Company – B. Business Overview – Netvision`" for additional details; · set unfavorable national roaming tariffs or Mobile Virtual Network Operator, or MVNO, hosting tariffs, or require us to provide wholesale services on our landline infrastructure or provide and purchase such services at unfavorable tariffs, or set reduced interconnect tariffs so that they do not represent cost plus reasonable profit. See "Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview - "Government Regulations - Tariff Supervision", "-Additional MNOs", and "– Landline"; · award new or smaller competitors certain benefits and leniencies not available to existing cellular operators, including through waiving, easing or not enforcing requirements set in the licenses of mobile network operators, or MNOs, or by limiting our ability to compete, including by providing preference to new or smaller competitors in the allocation of frequencies or otherwise. See "Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview - Competition", "-Government Regulations – Mobile Virtual Network Operators" and "- Additional MNOs" for additional details; · allow other operators to provide services previously provided only by us to our subscribers, including roaming services; · do not renew our licenses or the allocation of our frequencies or demand that we return frequencies allocated to us; · impose new safety or health-related requirements; · impose additional restrictions or requirements with respect to the construction and operation of cell sites or the networks, including in relation to site and network sharing; · impose restrictions on the provision of services or products we currently provide or regulate or otherwise intervene with the terms under which we advertise and market them and provide them to our subscribers, including in respect of existing agreements.; · limit or otherwise intervene with the services or products that we may sell; · set higher service standards or costly requirements relating to the service we provide our customers, both in relation to our network quality and coverage and our customer service; 10 Table of Contents · impose the laws and regulations applicable to charge cards on the clearing services we provide to third party providers, including liability for misuse and liability imposed on internet online and telephonic transactions. The Israeli Attorney General has given such opinion to two separate tribunals (which have not yet ruled on the matter); · impose a stricter policy with respect to privacy protection, such as with regard to data protection, collection, amelioration or usage of data for marketing activities; · impose structural or operational separation between our and Netvision's operations (partial or full) or between the different services within each company or otherwise limit our ability to offer bundles of services; · set unfavorable regulation regarding international communications services and the landline wholesale market. See "Item 4. Information on The Company – B. Business Overview –Government Regulations – Landline". · impose regulation on our recently launched OTT TV services, including the requirement to finance original productions, whether as TV provider or infrastructure (MNO and ISP) provider or imposing unfavorable terms for the usage of the Digital terrestrial television (DTT) broadcasting in Israel. See "- Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview – Government Regulations ― OTT TV". See “Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview – Government Regulations ― Our Principal License” and “- Other Licenses”. If we fail to compensate for lost revenues, increased expenses (objectively or in comparison to our competitors) or additional investments resulting from past or future legislative or regulatory changes with alternative sources of income or otherwise, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We face intense competition in all aspects of our business. The Israeli telecommunications market is highly competitive in many of its elements, including the cellular, internet access, or ISP, and international calling, or ILD, service markets. The competition level has increased substantially in recent years, following the entry of additional competitors and regulatory changes alleviating entry barriers and transfer barriers. The intensified competition led to price competition, the adverse effects of which includes an increased churn rate and increased subscriber acquisition costs, in addition to accelerated price erosion, specifically in the cellular market, all of which have ultimately led to a material decrease in revenues and profitability for us and other MNOs. The current level of competition and price erosion are expected to continue in the cellular, ISP and ILD markets and is expected to intensify in the multichannel television market following our recent entry to this market and in the landline market once the wholesale market, formally launched in February 2015, is effective. See also the "Competition" section under “Item 4. Information on the Company - B. Business Overview","-Netvision - ISP Business" and "-Netvision - Telephony Business". Should the current level of competition continue, it will continue to materially adversely affect our results of operations. Any of the following developments materializing in our market, may result in a further materially reduced profitability for us: 11 Table of Contents · the approval and execution of a network sharing agreement between our competitors, more so if not coupled with an approval and execution of similar agreements by us, given the material savings in expenditures and investments that can be achieved by such sharing of networks, as well as from the exemption from the requirement to build a 3rd generation network provided to our competitors Golan and Hot Mobile Ltd., or Hot Mobile, embedded in such network sharing approval. The approval of network sharing agreements would substantially decrease Golan and Hot's expenditures, specifically their variable cost per customer. Network sharing will also allow Hot Mobile and Golan to offer hosting services to MVNOs, whereas presently they do not. For details regarding the sharing agreements see "Item 4. Information on The Company – B. Business Overview – Network and Technology - Network and Cell Sites Sharing Agreements" and "-Government Regulation –Network Sharing". · tariffs maintained at their current level or decreasing even further, including as part of a bundle. · an ineffective landline wholesale market, including due to the pricing of the wholesale services in relation to the offering of services by the Bezeq and Hot groups at tariffs lower than prevailing market tariffs or lower than our costs for these services, as it may impede our ability to provide competitive bundles and adversely affect our services dependent on landline infrastructure currently purchased or to be purchased by us under the wholesale market, such as ISP, landline telephony, and OTT TV, more so when coupled with increasing demand for greater bandwidth, resulting in higher costs while revenues decrease. · increased competition in the hosting services market. If our sharing agreements are not approved, Golan may choose to purchase (subject to our national roaming agreement conditions) future national roaming services elsewhere or engage in a network sharing agreement with another operator, resulting in the loss of revenues from national roaming services to us. For details regarding the sharing agreements see "Item 4. Information on The Company – B. Business Overview – Network and Technology - Network and Cell Sites Sharing Agreements". · annulment or further relaxation of the structural separation imposed on each of the Bezeq and Hot groups as it will provide the Bezeq and Hot groups a competitive advantage, given their dominance in the landline telephony, TV and infrastructure markets. See "Item 4. Information on The Company –B. Business Overview –", "-Government Regulations – Landline" for additional details. · entrance of new competitors to any of the markets we operate in, or the entry of existing competitors to additional markets or segments where they are currently not or less active, or as a result of regulatory changes, allowing other operators to provide services currently provided only by us to our subscribers. See "Item 4. Information on The Company –B. Business Overview - Government Regulation – Our principal license", "Other Licenses –Unified License" and "-Additional MNOs". 12 Table of Contents · the continued increased competition in the handsets market , may result in decreased handset sales, and even an inability to meet our contractual obligations to purchase a minimal quantity of handsets from Apple,. See "Item 4. Information on The Company –B. Business Overview – Competition" for additional details. · inability to attract and retain subscribers to our recently launched OTT TV services or price erosion in the TV market due to increased competition. We may not be able to obtain permits to construct and operate cell sites. We depend on our network of cell sites to maintain and enhance network coverage for our subscribers. We also deploy and operate microwave sites as part of our transmission network. The construction and operation of these various facilities are highly regulated and require us to obtain various consents and permits. We have experienced difficulties in obtaining some of these consents and permits, particularly in obtaining building permits for cell sites from local planning and building authorities. As of December 31, 2014, we operated a small portion of our cell sites without building permits or applicable exemptions and approximately 33% of our cell sites without building permits in reliance on an exemption from the requirement to obtain a building permit, mainly for radio access devices. Our reliance on the exemption for radio access devices had been challenged and is currently awaiting ruling by the Israeli Supreme Court. Under an interim order issued by the Supreme Court in September 2010, we are unable to rely on the exemption in cellular networks, other than to replace existing radio access devices in certain conditions, until regulations limiting such reliance are enacted or a different decision by the court is made. Draft regulations submitted to the Economy Committee of the Israeli Parliament in March 2010 for approval, include significant limitations on the exemption which will render the construction of radio access devices based on the exemption practically impossible. Additionally, District Court rulings adopted a narrower interpretation of 'rooftops', to which the exemption may be applied. We also rely on the exemption for our rooftop microwave sites and signal amplifiers (known as 'repeaters'). It is unclear whether other types of repeaters require a building permit. In addition, we may be operating a significant number of our cell sites in a manner that is not fully compatible with the building permits issued for these cell sites which may, in some cases, also constitute grounds for termination of our lease agreements for those sites or claims for breach of such agreements. Operation of a cell site or other facility without a building permit or not in accordance with the permit or other legal requirements may result in the issuance of a demolition order for the cell site or other facility or the bringing of criminal charges against us and our officers and directors. As of December 31, 2014, criminal and administrative proceedings were pending with respect to four sites and a demolition order has been granted with respect to two cell sites while the remaining two proceedings are pending further litigation. 13 Table of Contents Pursuant to the Israeli Non-Ionizing Radiation Law, 2006, the granting or renewal of an operating permit by the Commissioner of Environmental Radiation at the Ministry of Environmental Protection of Israel, or the Commissioner, for a cell site or other facility is subject to the receipt of a building permit or an exemption from such a permit. Should we fail to obtain building permits for our cell sites or other facilities, including in the event that our reliance upon an exemption from the requirement to obtain building permits for these cell sites and other facilities is found invalid, the Commissioner will not grant or renew our operating permits for those cell sites and other facilities. Since October 2007, the Commissioner will not grant or renew operating permits to radio access devices where the local planning and building committee’s engineer objected to our reliance upon the said exemption. Operating a cell site or a facility without an operating permit or in conflict with the permit or in violation of the Non-Ionizing Radiation Law, could subject us and our officers and directors to criminal, administrative and civil liability, to eviction orders in respect of the cell sites in breach, revocation or suspension of the permit, as well as to withholding the grant of permits to additional cell sites. Should any of our officers or directors be found guilty of an offense, they may face monetary penalties and a term of imprisonment. Our cell sites may be the subject of demolition orders and we may be required to relocate cell sites to less favorable locations or stop operation of cell sites Certain proposed amendments to the Non-Ionizing Radiation Law and Regulations and the Planning and Building Law, propose setting additional restrictions in relation to the operation of cell sites and other facilities, such as setting larger distance requirements between cell sites locations and residences or certain institutions. In June 2010, proposed changes to the Israeli National Zoning Plan 36, or the Plan, which regulates cell site construction and operation, were approved by the Israeli National Council for Planning and Building and submitted for the approval of the Government of Israel. The proposed changes, if approved, would place additional restrictions on the construction and operation of cell sites. Several local planning and building authorities are claiming that Israeli cellular operators may not receive building permits, in reliance on the current Plan, for cell sites operating in frequencies not specifically detailed in the frequencies charts attached to the Plan and have refused to provide a building permit in a number of cases. The current proposed draft amendment to the Plan covers all new cell sites requiring a building permit, independently of the frequencies in which they operate. Most of our cell sites and many cell sites operated by other operators also operate in frequencies not specifically detailed in the Plan. In July 2011, an inter-ministry team of the Ministries of Communications, Finance, Interior, Environmental Protection and the Anti-Trust Commissionaire, published its recommendations regarding compulsory cell site sharing in the construction of new cell sites or modification of existing cell sites which require a building permit. If we are unable to obtain or rely on exemptions from obtaining or to renew building or other consents and permits for our existing cell sites or other facilities, or if any of the proposed changes noted above are adopted, it could adversely affect our existing network and its build-out, delay the deployment of our 4G network, negatively affect the extent, quality and capacity of our network coverage and our ability to continue to market our products and services effectively, all of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For additional details see “Item 4.B – Business Overview - Government Regulations - Permits for Cell Site Construction”. 14 Table of Contents We may be required to indemnify certain local planning and building committees in respect of claims against them. Under the Israeli Planning and Building Law, 1965, by approving a building plan, local planning and building committees may be required to compensate for depreciation of properties included in or neighboring the approved plan. As a precondition to obtaining a cell site construction permit from a planning and building committee, we are required to provide a letter to the committee indemnifying it for possible depreciation claims and have provided hundreds of such indemnification letters to local planning and building committees. Calls upon our indemnification letters may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may also decide to demolish or relocate existing cell sites to less favorable locations or not at all, due to the obligation to provide indemnification. As a result, our existing service may be impaired or the expansion of our network coverage could be limited. As of December 31, 2014we have one demand from a local committee to indemnify it based on such an indemnification letter, for an immaterial amount. Alleged health risks relating to non-ionizing radiation generated from cell sites and cellular devices may harm our prospects. Handsets, accessories and various types of cell sites are known to be sources of non-ionizing radiation emissions and are the subject of a public debate and concern in Israel. While, to the best of our knowledge, the handsets that we market comply with the applicable legislation that relate to acceptable “specific absorption rate,” or SAR, levels, we rely on the SAR levels published by the manufacturers of these handsets and do not perform independent inspections of the SAR levels of these handsets. As the manufacturers’ approvals refer to a prototype handset, we have no information as to the actual level of SAR of the handsets throughout the lifecycle of the handsets, including in the case of handset repair. See also “Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview - Government Regulations - Handsets”. In July 2008, the Israeli Ministry of Health published recommendations to take precautionary measures when using cellular handsets, which has increased the concerns of the Israeli public. In May 2011, the International Agency for Research on Cancer, an agency of the World Health Organization, or WHO, issued a press release classifying radiofrequency electromagnetic fields as possibly carcinogenic to humans (Group 2B), based on an increased risk for glioma, a malignant type of brain cancer, associated with wireless phone use. In June 2011, the WHO publication noted that to date, no adverse health effects have been established as being caused by mobile phone use and while an increased risk of brain tumors is not established, the increasing use of mobile phones and the lack of data for mobile phone use over time periods longer than 15 years warrant further research of mobile phone use and brain cancer risk, particularly given recent popular use by younger people with potentially longer periods of exposure. However, in September 2014, the Israeli Ministry of Health updated the possibly carcinogenic to humans elements list in its site, according to the WHO classification. Several bills, aimed at increasing awareness of the possible risks of cellular phones usage, reducing usage thereof and introducing precautionary measures are awaiting deliberation by the Israeli Parliament. In January 2013, the Ministry of Science and Technology and the Ministry of Environmental Protection announced the establishment of a non-ionizing radiation information center that will provide information to the public, issue warnings and guidelines for reducing exposure to risks in general and specifically in regards to sensitive populations and perform and coordinate research in that regard. 15 Table of Contents Health concerns regarding cell sites have caused us difficulties in obtaining permits for cell site construction and obtaining or renewing leases for cell sites and even resulted in unlawful sabotage of a small number of cell sites and prompted proposed legislation aimed at increasing the minimum distance permitted between cell sites and certain institutions. Formal positions adopted by various Israeli Ministries with respect to radiation safety, include the position that cell sites constructed pursuant to a building permit are preferable to radio access devices, that 4G services involve some increase in the level of non-ionizing radiation the public will be exposed to and therefore should have limited permitted usage and that utilizing a cellular network to provide advanced services that can be provided through a landline network is not justified in light of the preventive care principle set forth in the Israeli Non-Ionizing Radiation Law. If health concerns regarding non-ionizing radiation increase further, or if adverse findings in studies of non-ionizing radiation are published, non-ionizing radiation levels are found to be higher than the standards set for handsets and cell sites or additional requirements or limitations are imposed on the marketing of cellular products or services, we may be subject to health-related claims for substantial sums. Consumers may also be discouraged from using cellular handsets and regulators may impose additional restrictions on the construction and operation of cell sites or handset and accessories marketing and usage. As a result, we may experience increased difficulty in constructing and operating cell sites and obtaining leases for new cell site locations or renewing leases for existing locations, or be exposed to property depreciation claims; and we may lose revenues due to decreasing usage of our services and be subject to increased regulatory costs. We have not obtained insurance for these potential claims. See "Item 8. Financial Information – A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information – Legal Proceedings – Class Actions" for additional details on two class actions filed against us in that respect. An adverse outcome or settlement of any health-related litigation against us or any other provider of cellular services could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or prospects. The unionizing of our employees may impede necessary organizational and personnel changes, result in increased costs or disruption to our operation. In September 2013, we recognized the Histadrut, an Israeli labor union, as the union representing the Company's and Netvision's employees and in February 2015, we entered a collective employment agreement with the Company's employees' representatives and the Histadrut for a term of 3 years (2015-2017). The agreement defines employment policy and terms in various aspects, including payments to the employees and procedures relating to manning a position, change of place of employment and dismissal, including management and employees' representative respective authority with regards to each. As a result, our day-to-day operations and our ability to execute organizational and personnel changes is more limited, cumbersome, costly and lengthy, as reflected in the voluntary retirement plan carried out in the second quarter of 2014, and may require more management attention, that would otherwise be available for our ongoing business. Although to date, we have not suffered any work stoppages or other disruptions to our operation, future disagreements with the employees' representatives may trigger an adverse impact on our services or customer service, changes may fail to be executed or be executed in a materially different way than planned, resulting in substantially lower savings than expected or requiring materially increased employment costs. Inability or limited ability to make organizational and personnel changes, as well as work stoppages or other disruption to our operations and limitations on management's discretion, may damage the efficiency and quality of our operations, and may lead to damage to our reputation, increased customer churn, loss of market share and reduced profitability. 16 Table of Contents We could be subject to legal claims due to the inability of our information systems to fully support our pricing plans. In order to attract and retain the maximum number of subscribers in our highly competitive market, we design various pricing plans for stand-alone services as well as bundles of services. We require sophisticated information systems to accurately record subscriber usage pursuant to the particular terms of each subscriber’s plan as well as accurate database management and operation of a very large number of pricing plans. From time to time, we have detected some discrepancies between certain pricing plans and the information processed by our internal information systems, such as applying an incorrect rebate or applying an incorrect tariff to a service resulting in a higher charge. We have invested substantial resources to refine and improve our information and control systems and ensure that our new pricing plans are appropriately processed by our information systems; we have also taken steps to remedy the identified discrepancies and have established reserves where the discrepancies are quantifiable. Despite our substantial investments, we may experience discrepancies in the future due to the multiplicity of our plans, the frequent changes to our licenses and relevant legislation governing our pricing plans and the scope of the processing tasks. While we are in the process of creating one billing and Customer Relation Management, or CRM, systems for both Cellcom and Netvision, until such process is completed, the involvement of both companies systems and integration process itself, increases the risk for such discrepancies to occur. Further, while we invest substantial efforts in monitoring our employees and third-party distributors and dealers that market our services, it is possible that some of our employees, distributors or dealers may offer terms and make (or fail to make) representations to existing and prospective subscribers that do not fully conform to applicable law, our licenses or the terms of our pricing plans. As a result of these discrepancies, we may be subject to subscribers’ claims, including class action claims, and substantial sanctions for breach of our licenses or the applicable laws and regulations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations. Further, frequent and multiple changes to our general license and relevant legislation require ongoing changes to our operations, pricing plans and supporting information systems. Such changes increase the risk that our employees, distributors and dealers and our information systems will not fully support such changes. As of January 1, 2013, each discrepancy from the customer's pricing plan, remedied after the customer complained, awards the customer with predefined damages in an insignificant amount, but may aggregate to substantial amounts if paid to numerous customers on multiple occasions. Several purported class actions were filed against us in that respect. In August 2014, the Ministry of Communications proposed a bill aiming to impose substantially increased predefined damages for any discrepancy from the customer's pricing plan, which may aggregate to substantial sums if paid to numerous customers on multiple occasions. We are exposed to, and currently are engaged in, a variety of legal proceedings, including class action lawsuits. We provide services to millions of subscribers on a daily basis. As a result of the scope and magnitude of our operations, we are subject to the risk of a large number of lawsuits, including class action suits by consumers and consumer organizations, with respect to billing and other practices, such as customer care practices, marketing, including mass media marketing as well as sending commercial messages to customers, data collection and usage practices, offering practices of products and services, including third parties' products and services and practices related to the provision of such services to our customers, such as disclosure requirements. These actions are costly to defend and could result in significant judgments against us. Recent years were characterized by a substantial increase in the number of requests for certification of class actions filed and approved in Israel. In December 2011, a class action was decided against us (we appealed the decision and the Supreme Court annulled such judgment and approved a settlement). In November 2013, another request to certify a lawsuit filed against us as class action was approved. In addition, we have entered several settlement agreements, mostly for immaterial sums. The number of purported class actions filed against us in the last three years amounts to over one third of all purported class actions filed against us since our inception, thereby increasing our legal exposure and our legal costs in defending against such suits, which as a result may materially and adversely affect our financial results. This trend is expected to continue, encouraged also by amendments to the Consumer Protection Law, stricter policy by regulators, amendments to the Communications Law such as regulating "spam" as well as the growing tendency of adopting comprehensive and burdensome regulation for the telecommunications market. This trend is also expected to include higher involvement of consumer organizations (whether by filing such suits, opposing settlement agreements and advocating the filing of lawsuits) and the Advocate General (opposing settlement agreements). Currently, we are engaged in dozens of purported class action suits as a defendant, many of which are for substantial amounts. Should these requests to certify lawsuits against us as class actions are approved and succeed, this may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. For a summary of certain material legal proceedings against us, see “Item 8 – Financial Information - A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information –Legal Proceedings”. 17 Table of Contents We employ thousands of employees and are therefore subject to the risk of employee lawsuits, including class action suits by employees. We are subject to the risk of intellectual property rights claims against us, including in relation to television content, photographs, music, music-related or other content services we purchase from third party content providers. These claims may require us to initiate or defend protracted and costly litigation, regardless of the merits of these claims. If any of these claims succeed, we may be forced to pay damages or may be required to obtain licenses for the infringing product or service, which, if in substantial sums, could harm our results of operations. If we cannot obtain all necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, we may be forced to stop using or selling the products and services. We may not have insurance coverage for these types of claims. Our operations are dependent on complex technology and information systems. Our operations are dependent on a number of complex technological systems. The offering of bundles of services by us and Netvision, following our merger, increased the number of complex technological systems involved in providing service to our customers and in the billing process of our customers, resulting in some cases in cumbersome procedures, inefficient usage of resources and lack of uniformity. The occurrence of malfunctions in such complex and ever changing and expanding systems is inevitable. In addition, we are in the process of implementing one billing system and one CRM system for both companies, which may result in larger expenditures than anticipated, require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for our ongoing business, or lead to unforeseen operating difficulties and malfunctions, which may lead to loss of revenues, legal claims and regulatory sanctions. We are substantially relying on outsourced services in respect of our critical information systems, which could result in an adverse effect on the quality of our customer service, loss of internal knowledge and capabilities and substantially higher dependency on the supplier of such outsourced services, and which may lead to diversion of management attention. For additional details regarding our information systems agreements, see "Item 4. Information on the Company - B. Business Overview - Network and Technology - Information technology". A malfunction in any of our systems which severely impacts our ability to provide products and services to our customers may result in loss of revenues to us, may adversely impact our brand and service perception, and expose us to legal claims, all of which may adversely affect our results of operations. 18 Table of Contents Our operations are dependent on various information systems. The unauthorized entry to or disruption of operation of these information systems, including due to cyber attacks, may result in damage to us and our customers. Such damages could include our inability to provide certain services without disruptions, if at all, our inability to bill for services rendered or loss of data to us and our customers, all of which may expose us to legal claims and liabilities. Further, any successful attacks on Netvision's customers' information systems, protected by Netvision's data security products, may also expose Netvision to legal claims and liability. There are certain restrictions in our licenses relating to the ownership of our shares. Our cellular license restricts ownership of our ordinary shares and who can serve as our directors as follows: · our founding shareholder, Discount Investment Corporation Ltd., or DIC (or its transferee or transferees, if approved in advance by the Ministry of Communications as “founding shareholders”), must own at least 26% of each of our means of control; · Israeli citizens and residents among our founding shareholders (or their approved transferees) must own at least 20% of our outstanding share capital and each of our other means of control (DIC has agreed to comply with this requirement); · a majority of our directors must be Israeli citizens and residents; · at least 20% of our directors must be appointed by Israeli citizens and residents among our founding shareholders; and · we are required to have a committee of our Board of Directors that deals with matters relating to state security, which must be comprised of at least four directors (including an external director) having the requisite security clearance by Israel’s General Security Service. If these requirements are not complied with, we could be found to be in breach of our license and our license could be changed, suspended or revoked. As a result of a rights offering effected by IDB in February 2015, the ownership percentages in IDB of its controlling shareholders, and consequently indirectly in us, have changed and will require the approval of the Ministry of Communications, including due to the Israeli holding requirements included in our communications licenses. We have already approached the Ministry of Communications and intend to file a formal request with the MOC for its approval of such changes, which may include a request to amend our communications licenses, including with regards to the Israeli holdings requirement in us as preset forth in such licenses. As of the date of the filing of this annual report, such changes in the ownership percentages in IDB are being contested by one of the controlling shareholders. See "Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions – A. Major Shareholders." 19 Table of Contents In addition, our license provides that, without the approval of the Ministry of Communications, no person may acquire or dispose of shares representing 10% or more of our outstanding share capital. Further, our directors and officers and any holder of ordinary shares representing 5% or more of our outstanding share capital may not own 5% or more of Bezeq or any of our competitors or serve as a director or officer of such a company, subject to certain exceptions which require the prior approval of the Ministry of Communications. To ensure that an unauthorized acquisition of our shares would not jeopardize our license, our articles of association provide that any shares acquired without approval required under our license will not be entitled to voting rights. If our service is to be determined by the Israeli Government to be an “essential service”, the Prime Minister and the Ministry of Communications could impose additional limitations including a heightened requirement of Israeli ownership of our ordinary shares. Although our articles of association contain certain provisions that are aimed at reducing the risk that holdings or transfers of our ordinary shares will contravene our license, we cannot entirely control these and other matters required by our license, the violation of which could be a basis for suspending or revoking our license. Our other licenses and Netvision's licenses contain similar restrictions, with the Ministry of Communications' approval required for the transfer of shares representing 5% or more of our (or Netvision, as the case may be) outstanding share capital. See also “Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview – Government Regulations ― Our Principal License” and “-Other Licenses” and "Item 4. Information on The Company – B. Business Overview – Netvision". We may be adversely affected by the significant technological and other changes in the cellular communications industry; network sharing agreements, if approved, may have material adverse effects on our business. The telecommunications market is known for rapid and significant technological changes and requires ongoing investments in advanced technologies in order to remain competitive. In recent years we have witnessed a growing demand for Internet, content and data through advanced third and fourth generation cellular phones, smartphones, modems, tablets and other devices using cellular data that resulted in a rapid and immense growth of data traffic on cellular networks and required cellular operators to upgrade their networks to accord such demand. Transfer of subscribers to Unlimited Packages of services, MVNO hosting services and national roaming on our network, have contributed to the substantially growing demand for data traffic on our network, as well as to voice and text messages. We estimate that data traffic will continue to rapidly grow in the future. To meet the growing demand for cellular data traffic, we are required, among others, to continue our substantial investment in our 4G network (launched in 2014) and upgrading our transmission network, to allow larger capacity and higher data speed rates. In addition, as in order to provide optimal performance, our LTE network would require additional frequencies to those allocated to us under the LTE frequencies tender, as the Ministry of Communications expects us to evacuate 12 1800MHz which were allocated to us for our 2G network to be used by our LTE network, the frequencies available to our 2G network will be substantially fewer and may adversely affect our 2G network performance. 20 Table of Contents Under our network sharing agreement with Golan, the operation and maintenance of the shared 4G radio network will be carried out by a separate newly created entity, equally owned by us and Golan. This means that should this agreement be approved and executed, decision making will no longer take only our interests and desires into consideration. Further, such unification of cell sites may results in local degradation of service to our customers due to relocation of cell sites which may lead to dissatisfaction among such customers and require us to invest in local solutions, such as repeaters. In addition, should Golan customers use solely our networks under the network sharing agreements, whereas presently they use both ours and Golan's cell sites, specifically if Golan's subscribers' data traffic would increase substantially, may result in adverse effect on our ability to continue to support the demand for cellular data traffic and market our products and services effectively, more so if we are unable to use Golan's cell sites. In addition, after termination of our network sharing agreement, Golan will be entitled to purchase usage rights in our passive infrastructure, which may limit our ability to use it to meet all our needs. For additional details regarding the network sharing agreements see "Item 4. Information on The Company – A. History And Development Of The Company- Our History - Strategic network sharing agreements in 2013" and "- B. Business Overview – Network and Technology - Network and Cell Sites Sharing Agreements". If we cannot obtain or maintain favorable arrangements with foreign telecommunications operators, our services may be less attractive or less profitable. We rely on agreements to provide roaming capabilities to our cellular subscribers in many areas outside Israel. As of December 31, 2014, we had roaming arrangements with 572 cellular providers in 179 countries around the world. However, we cannot control the quality of the service that they provide and it may be inferior to the quality of service that we provide. Equally, our subscribers may not be able to use some of the advanced features that they enjoy when making calls on our network. Some of our competitors may be able to obtain lower roaming rates than we do because they may have larger call volumes or can use more favorable agreements of their overseas affiliates. If our competitors’ providers can deliver a higher quality or a more cost effective roaming service, then subscribers may migrate to those competitors and our results of operation could be adversely affected, more so if the proposed amendment to our license, allowing other operators to provide roaming services to our subscribers, will be adopted. Further, we may not be able to compel providers to participate in our technology migration and enhancement strategies. As a result, our ability to implement technological innovations could be adversely affected if these overseas providers are unable or unwilling to cooperate with the further development of our network or if they cease to provide services comparable to those we offer on our network. Inbound roaming to our network is also influenced by our ability to maintain favorable roaming arrangements. The entry of additional UMTS providers has not only increased competition regarding outgoing roaming services but also increased competition on inbound roaming services. Additional operators or the abovementioned proposed amendment to our license, may increase such competition further. In recent years, roaming tariffs for our subscribers have decreased. If roaming tariffs continue to decrease including as a result of the increasing competition or the changing regulation, this could adversely affect our profitability and results of operations. We also rely on agreements with foreign carriers to provide ILD services by Netvision as well as its international voice hubbing (providing ILD services to foreign operators) services. The risks detailed above in relation to roaming services and possible effects of such risks, apply to Netvion's ILD and hubbing services as well. See "Item 4. Information on The Company – B. Business Overview – Netvision – Telephony Business". 21 Table of Contents Our substantial debt increases our exposure to market risks, may limit our ability to incur additional debt that may be necessary to fund our operations and could adversely affect our financial stability; regulatory change, market terms and our financial results may affect our possibilities to raise debt. As of December 31, 2014, our total indebtedness was approximately NIS 4,640 million ($1,193 million), with our net debt at approximately NIS 2,962 million ($762 million). For additional details see "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects. – B. Liquidity and Capital Resources – General". The indentures governing our debentures currently permit us to incur additional indebtedness (subject in some cases to certain limitations). Given the significant decrease in our operating results in recent years, which we expect will continue and will adversely affect our cash flows going forward, our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial condition by, among other things · increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or business conditions, including increases in the Israeli Consumer Prices Index, or CPI, as approximately NIS 3,222 million ($828 million) is CPI linked; · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our industry and the economy in general; · requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, thus reducing the funds available for operations and future business development, as well as for dividend distribution; and · limiting our ability to obtain, or resulting in less favorable terms and pricing for, additional financing to operate, develop and expand our business or for refinancing existing debt. Following circulars of the Commissioner of Capital Markets, Insurance and Savings in the Ministry of Finance published on October 2010 and August 2013, instructing institutional investors to follow certain procedures and requirements before investing in non-governmental debentures our series F through I indentures include certain limitations and covenants, including a covenant not to issue additional debentures if it involves a rating downgrade, certain financial covenants, negative pledge, cross default, limitation on the distribution of dividends, obligation to pay additional interest in case of certain rating downgrades (which occurred under our series F and G debentures, in June 2013). For details regarding such limitations and covenants see "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects. – B. Liquidity and Capital Resources – Debt Service". These limitations are expected to apply to any additional debt incurred by us. These procedures, limitations and covenants limit our freedom to conduct our business, may impose additional costs on us and may limit our ability to borrow additional debt from Israeli institutional investors as well as adversely affect the terms and price of such debt raising. 22 Table of Contents Since 2011, we suffered a significant decrease in our operating results, following certain regulatory changes, intensified competition and price erosion (see "Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview –Competition" and "-Additional MNOs"). In May 2012 and in June 2013, the rating of our debentures was downgraded due to increased leverage and competitive pressure. This and any further downgrade in our rating, and any adverse change in our financial results, including any increase in our net leverage (defined in our series F through I indentures as the ratio of net debt to EBITDA during a period of 12 consecutive months, excluding onetime influences), may adversely affect the terms and price of debt raised, particularly through the issuance of debentures to institutional investors, which, given the limitation on the ability of Israeli banks to lend money to us pursuant to the “Guidelines for Sound Bank Administration” issued by the Israeli Supervisor of Banks (as we are a member of IDB’s group of borrowers), may limit our ability to obtain additional financing to operate, develop and expand our business or to refinance existing debt. See also the law for the promotion of competition and the mitigation of concentration under "Risks Relating to Our Ordinary Shares - Recent Legislation in Israel affecting corporate conglomerates, could adversely affect us" below, which may adversely affect our possibilities of raising debt from Israeli institutional investors. Our business results may be affected by currency fluctuations, by our currency hedging positions and by changes in the Israeli Consumer Price Index. A portion of our cash payments are incurred in, or linked to, foreign currencies, mainly U.S. dollars. In particular, in 2012, 2013 and 2014, payments denominated in, or linked to, foreign currencies, mainly U.S. dollars, represented approximately 36%, 24% and 20%, respectively, of our total cash outflow (including payments of principal and interest on our debentures). These payments included capital expenditures, some cell site rental fees, payments for roaming services and to equipment suppliers including handset suppliers and part of our dividend payments. In 2014, the U.S. dollar exchange rate to NIS has increased substantially. As almost all of our cash receipts are in NIS, any devaluation of the NIS against the foreign currencies in which we make payments, particularly the U.S. dollar, will increase the NIS cost of our foreign currency denominated or linked expenses and capital expenditures. In 2014, the U.S. dollar, in particular, strengthened against the NIS, resulting in increased costs for us. Furthermore, since the principal amount of and interest that we pay on our Series B, D, F and H debentures, are linked to the Israeli CPI, any increase in the Israeli CPI will increase our financing expenses and could adversely affect our results of operations. See "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – B. Liquidity and Capital Resources – Debt Service" for details. We purchase derivative financial instruments in order to hedge part of the foreign currency risks, CPI risks deriving from our operations and indebtedness. Derivatives are initially recognized at fair value. Changes in the fair value are accounted for such that: Changes in the fair value of derivative hedging instruments designated as a cash flow hedge are recognized directly as a component of our shareholders’ equity to the extent that the hedge is effective. To the extent that the hedge is ineffective, changes in fair value are recognized in our income statement as the hedged item affects earnings. The amount recognized in shareholders’ equity is transferred to our income statement in the same period that the hedged item affects our earnings. Notwithstanding the above, hedge accounting is not applied to derivative instruments that economically hedge monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. Changes in the fair value of such derivatives are recognized through our income statement upon occurrence. These differences in the derivative instruments' designation could result in fluctuations in our reported net income on a quarterly basis. 23 Table of Contents We may not be able to fulfill our dividend policy in the future; implementation of our dividend policy will significantly reduce our future cash reserves. In February 2006, we adopted a dividend policy targeting a payout ratio of at least 75% of our net income in each calendar year, subject to any applicable law, our license and contractual obligations and provided that such distribution would not be detrimental to our cash needs or to any plans approved by our Board of Directors. Our series F through I indentures contain a covenant not to distribute more than 95% of the profits available for distribution according to the Israeli Companies Law 1999, or Companies Law, or Profits. Moreover, under such indentures, if our net leverage (defined as the ratio of net debt to EBITDA during a period of 12 consecutive months, excluding certain one-time effects) exceeds 3.5:1, we may not distribute more than 85% of our Profits and if our net leverage exceeds 4.0:1, we may not distribute more than 70% of our Profits. For additional details see "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – B. Liquidity and Capital Resources – Debt Service ". In addition, our license requires that we and our 10% or more shareholders maintain at least $200 million of combined shareholders’ equity. Dividend payments are not guaranteed and our Board of Directors may decide, in its absolute discretion, at any time and for any reason, not to pay dividends or to pay dividends at a ratio to net income that is less than that paid in the past. Since 2012 our board of directors declared a dividend for the first quarter of 2012 and third quarter of 2013 only, constituting 75% of our net income and part of our retained earnings from earlier periods, respectively, whereas for the second, third and fourth quarters of 2012 and the first, second and fourth quarters of 2013 and 2014, our board of directors chose not to declare dividends, given the intensified competition and its adverse effect on our results of operations and in order to strengthen our balance sheet. See “Item 8. Financial Information - A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information - Dividend Policy”. Our dividend policy, to the extent implemented, will significantly reduce our future cash reserves and may adversely affect our ability to fund unexpected capital expenditures. As a result, we may be required to borrow additional money or raise capital by issuing equity securities, which may not be possible on attractive terms or at all. If we are unable to fulfill our dividend policy, or pay dividends at levels anticipated by investors in our shares, the market price of our shares may be negatively affected and the value of our investors’ investment may be reduced. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for key equipment and services. Netvision does not own its own infrastructure and is dependent on its infrastructure providers We depend upon a small number of suppliers to provide us with key equipment and services. For example, Nokia Solutions and Networks Israel, or NSN, provides our network system based on LTE technology and GSM/GPRS/EDGE technology, our UMTS/HSPA core system, part of our radio access network and related products and services, and our landline New Generation Network system, or NGN system; LM Ericsson Israel, or LM Ericsson, supplies part of our radio access network and related products and services based on UMTS/HSPA technology and our OTT TV services platform; Amdocs Israel provides us operating ,development and maintenance services to our billing and CRM systems; Alcatel Lucent provides our Carrier Ethernet network and SDH equipment for our transmission network; and Be’eri Printers provides our printing supplies and invoices as well as the distribution, packaging and delivery of invoices and other mail to the postal service distribution centers. In addition, we lease a small portion of our transmission capacity from Bezeq, the incumbent landline operator. Our OTT TV services are further dependent on the Israeli Second Radio and Television authority, the authority responsible for linear channels of the Digital terrestrial television (DTT) broadcasting in Israel. Any regulatory change which will prevent us from using the DTT or condition such usage on unfavorable terms, degradation of service quality, or labor disputes affecting the service, may adversely affect our services, which may harm our ability to compete and result in loss of customers and revenues. 24 Table of Contents We are further dependent on infrastructure providers for Netvision's ISP, ILD, landline telephony (using Voice over Broadband, or VOB technology) and our OTT TV services. Those providers include Mediterranean Nautilus Ltd. and Mediterranean Nautilus (Israel) Ltd., or collectively Med Nautilus, which connects the Israeli internet network to the "entry points" of the global internet network, as well Israeli telephony, via an underwater communications cable, and Bezeq and Hot, which provide broadband infrastructure in Israel. Should we enter an agreement for the purchase of broadband infrastructure services with IBC, we may acquire broadband services from it as well. Should an effective landline wholesale market materialize, we may purchase services from Bezeq and Hot in order to provide internet infrastructure and landline telephony services to our customers, in which case we would be dependent on Bezeq and Hot for such services as well. Bezeq has experienced labor disputes, including stoppages, during the privatization process and liberalization of the landline market, Hot has experienced labor disruptions, during a unionization attempt in the last years and IBC's manpower (many of them are employees of the Israeli Electric Company, or IEC's (one of IBC owners) have been reported to delay IBC's operation until their demands were met. Additional disruptions, stoppages and slowdowns may be experienced in the future and adversely affect our operations. See also "Item 4. Information on The Company – B. Business Overview – Netvision". If these suppliers fail to provide equipment or services to us that meet requisite quality standards or on a timely basis, or at unfavorable terms to us, we may be unable to provide services to our subscribers in an optimal manner until an alternative source, if one is available, can be found or the situation is rectified, which may harm our ability to compete and result in loss of customers and revenues or place our licenses at risk of revocation for failure to satisfy the required service standards. Further, in November 2011 the Ministry of Communications published in a hearing about proposed regulation of the underwater international telecommunications connection from Israel that would impose certain limitations on agreements with Med Nautilus, which would limit the discounts and capacity Med Nautilus may provide. In addition, our cellular end-user equipment sales have been dominated in recent years by Apple and Samsung products, representing over half of our handset sales. See "Item 4. Information on the Company - B. Business Overview - Handsets" for additional details. Advanced Digital Broadcast S.A., or ADB, provides our set-top boxes for our OTT TV services. Vubiquity Management Ltd., or VU, provides us international content and content operation services and RGE Group Ltd., or RGE, provides our sports application and content operation services, both for our OTT TV services. Should any of these suppliers refuse to sell equipment or content, as applicable, to us, condition such sales on unfavorable terms and conditions or provide our competitors more favorable terms and conditions, or if these suppliers fail to produce successful and desirable products or content when no equivalent alternatives are available, this could have a material adverse effect on our handset sales or OTT TV services revenues, as applicable, and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents Our investment in new businesses involves many risks. We have invested and expect to continue to invest in exploration and development of new business opportunities in order to extend and complete our capabilities and offerings, such as our OTT TV solution, which we recently launched. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including shift of management attention from our ongoing business, loss of focus of our sales and marketing efforts on our main businesses due to attention given to new businesses, insufficient revenues to offset liabilities assumed and expenses associated with these new investments, adversely affecting our cash flow, especially in businesses that require long term and fixed cost such as for the purchase of content in favor of our OTT TV services, inadequate return of capital on our investments, regulatory changes which may impose additional burdens than planned, inability to effectively compete with incumbent providers or new competitors entering the market, and unidentified issues not discovered in our due diligence of such strategies and offerings, such as unforeseen operating difficulties and large expenditures. Because these new ventures are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that such strategies and offerings will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our reputation, financial condition, and operating results. Moreover, entry into such new ventures may trigger increased competitive pressure by the incumbent providers of competing services on our core business, aiming at preventing our efforts to compete with them at the relevant market, as triggered in December 2014 by Hot after the launch of our OTT TV services. We are a member of the IDB group of companies, a large and highly regulated Israeli business group, which may limit our ability to expand our business, to acquire other businesses or raise debt. The effects on us of IDB's financial condition are unclear. We are an indirect subsidiary of IDB Development Corporation Ltd., or IDB, large and highly regulated Israeli business group. In May 2014, a creditors' arrangement (approved by the Israeli court in January 2014) for IDB Holding Corporation Ltd., or IDB Holding, was consummated, under which the control over IDB, (which was at the time IDB Holding's wholly owned subsidiary) was transferred to two companies, one controlled by Mr. Eduardo Elzstain and one by Mr. Mordechai Ben Moshe, in equal parts. As a result, the indirect control in the Company was transferred to such entities. IDB's financial statements for the third quarter of 2014 included a note regarding the existence of significant doubts as to its ability to continue as a going concern due to its liquidity condition. IDB's financial condition could have an adverse effect on our debentures rating, or on the terms of any new debt raised. In addition, pursuant to the “Guidelines for Sound Bank Administration” issued by the Israeli Supervisor of Banks, the amount that an Israeli bank may lend to one group of borrowers and to each of its six largest borrowers is limited. Since we are a member of IDB’s group of borrowers, these guidelines may limit the ability of Israeli banks to lend money to us. Under the Law for the Promotion of Competition and the Mitigation of Concentration, or the Concentration Law, competitive and control concentration factors, both of a certain market and generally, are to be taken into consideration prior to allocation of rights in public assets (including in the communications field) by the relevant governmental authorities to entities considered to be 'concentrated entities'. Being a subsidiary of IDB, we were included in the list of concentrated entities published in December 2014 to which such requirements apply. This may adversely affect the renewal of our licenses and allocation of additional frequencies to us, which may have an adverse effect on our business. See also "Risks Relating to Our Ordinary Shares Recent Legislation in Israel affecting corporate conglomerates, could adversely affect us" below. 26 Table of Contents Due to the limited size and high level of regulation of the Israeli market, and the communications market in particular, our being a member of the IDB group of companies may limit our ability to expand our business in the future, form joint ventures and strategic alliances and conduct other strategic transactions with other participants in the Israeli communications market. We are controlled by a single shareholder who can significantly influence matters requiring shareholders’ approval. As of December 31, 2014, Discount Investment Company, or DIC held, directly and indirectly, approximately 41.78% of our outstanding share capital. Pursuant to shareholders agreements among DIC and certain of our minority shareholders, who in the aggregate own approximately 3.39% of our ordinary shares, DIC has been granted the voting rights in respect of those shares. In addition to DIC’s shareholdings and such additional voting rights, it has the right to appoint the 20% of our directors that we are required by our license and articles of association to have appointed by Israeli citizens and residents among our founding shareholders. Accordingly, subject to legal limitations, DIC has control (as the term "control" is defined in the Israeli Securities Law; namely the ability to direct a company's activities) over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election and removal of our directors (other than external directors) and the approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership could delay or prevent proxy contests, mergers, tender offers, open-market purchase programs or other purchases of our ordinary shares that might otherwise give our shareholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for our ordinary shares. Recent legislation in Israel affecting corporate conglomerates, could adversely affect us. In December 2013, the Concentration Law was enacted by the Israeli parliament. The law, in material part: (1) imposes limitations on the holdings by a significant corporation that is not in the financial sector in a significant corporation in the financial sector or the holdings of both kinds of corporations under common control and on the possibility of serving as a director in both a significant non-financial corporation and a significant financial corporation; (2) imposes a two layer limitation on the total number of reporting corporations (layers) in pyramidal structure (for existing pyramidal structures of three layers - after a transition period of six years and of four layers – after a transition period of four years); (3) strengthens the corporate governance rules applicable to public companies in Israel, and sets additional limitations on certain transactions in which a controlling shareholder has a personal interest, strengthens the independence requirements of external directors and requires that as of September 2014 and during the said transition period in companies that are third layer and up in a pyramidal structure - the majority of the board of directors be independent, as defined in the Israeli Companies Law, and that the number of external directors be half the number of the company's directors less one (rounded upward) but not less than two; (4) authorizes the Israeli Minister of Finance or bodies authorized by it to set limitations regarding the aggregate credit that may be provided by financial institutions to a corporation or a business group (defined as a controlling shareholder and the corporations under its control); and (5) sets additional procedures including involving the committee of mitigation of concentration designated to take into consideration competitive and control concentration factors prior to any allocation of rights in public assets (including in the communications field) by the relevant governmental authorities. We are a third layer company in the pyramidal structure of the IDB group and were included in the list of concentrated entities published in December 2014 to whom such requirements apply. Accordingly, in September 2014 we changed the composition of our board of directors to accord with the requirements of the Concentration Law, and IDB and DIC have until December 2019 to cause us to cease being a third layer company. IDB and DIC have announced their intention to review possible ways to achieve this goal without having to forfeit control of us, such as by merging with each other or by taking IDB or DIC private. There can be no assurance how or when this would occur, if at all. In addition, the new procedures set in the law in relation to allocation of rights in public assets, could have an adverse effect on our ability to renew our cellular license and receive additional frequencies. The law may also adversely affect our ability to raise debt or other aspects of our business. 27 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Operating in Israel We conduct our operations in Israel and therefore our results may be adversely affected by political, economic and military instability in Israel. Our operations, our network and some of our suppliers are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel may directly affect our business. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors, Hamas (an Islamist militia and political group in the Gaza Strip) and Hezbollah (an Islamist militia and political group in Lebanon). Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade within Israel or between Israel and its trading partners could adversely affect our operations and could make it more difficult for us to raise capital. A substantial part of our network and information systems is located within range of missile strikes from the Gaza Strip and Lebanon. Any damage to our network or information systems would damage our ability to provide service, in whole or in part, in the southern or northern part of Israel or otherwise damage our operation and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. More generally, any armed conflicts, terrorist activities or political instability in the region would likely negatively affect business conditions and could harm our results of operations, including following termination of such conflicts, due to a decrease in the number of tourists visiting Israel. Such adverse effects may also occur due to the increasing criticism of Israel in the international community. Since the end of 2010 several countries in the region, including Egypt and Syria, have been experiencing increased political instability, which led to changes in government in some of these countries, the effects of which are currently difficult to assess. In addition, Iran has threatened to attack Israel and is widely suspected to be developing nuclear weapons. Iran is also believed to have a strong influence among extremist groups in areas that neighbor Israel, such as Hamas in Gaza and Hezbollah in Lebanon. This situation may potentially escalate in the future to violent events which may affect Israel and us. In addition, in the event that the State of Israel relinquishes control over certain territories currently held by it to the Palestinian Authority, we will not be able to provide service from our cell sites located in Israeli populated areas and on connecting roads in these territories. This may result in the loss of subscribers and revenues and in a decrease in our market share. 28 Table of Contents Our freedom and ability to conduct our operations may be limited during periods of national emergency. The Communications Law grants the Prime Minister of Israel the authority, for reasons of state security or public welfare, to order a telecommunications license holder to provide services to security forces, to perform telecommunications activities or to establish a telecommunications facility as may be required for the security forces to carry out their duties. Further, the Israeli Equipment Registration and IDF Mobilization Law, 1987, also permits the registration of engineering equipment and facilities and the taking thereof for the use of the Israel Defense Forces. This law further sets the payment for use and compensation for damages caused to the operator as a result of such taking. Our general license also permits the Israeli Government, during national emergencies or for reasons of national security, to take all necessary actions in order to ensure state security, including taking control of our network, and requires us to cooperate with such actions. If national emergency situations arise in the future and if we are to be subject during such time to any of the foregoing actions, this could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and provide services during such national emergencies and adversely affect our business operations. Our other licenses and Netvision's licenses (excluding our ISP licenses) contain similar restrictions. See also “Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview – Government Regulations ― Our Principal License”, “Other Licenses” and "– Netvision". Provisions of Israeli law and our license may delay, prevent or impede an acquisition of us, which could prevent a change of control. The Israeli Companies Law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. For example, a merger may not be completed unless at least 50 days have passed from the date that a merger proposal was filed by each merging company with the Israel Registrar of Companies and at least 30 days from the date that the shareholders of both merging companies approved the merger. In addition, a majority of each class of securities of the target company is required to approve a merger. Further, the provisions of our licenses require the prior approval of the Ministry of Communications for changes of control in our Company. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to us or to our shareholders whose country of residence does not have a tax treaty with Israel exempting such shareholders from Israeli tax. For example, Israeli tax law does not recognize tax-free share exchanges to the same extent as U.S. tax law. With respect to mergers, Israeli tax law allows for tax deferral in certain circumstances but makes the deferral contingent on the fulfillment of numerous conditions, including a holding period of two years from the date of the transaction during which sales and dispositions of shares of the participating companies are restricted. Moreover, with respect to certain share swap transactions, the tax deferral is limited in time, and when the time expires, tax then becomes payable even if no actual disposition of the shares has occurred. These provisions could delay, prevent or impede an acquisition of us, even if such an acquisition would be considered beneficial by some of our shareholders. 29 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Ordinary Shares A substantial number of our ordinary shares could be sold into the public market, which could depress our share price. Our largest shareholder, DIC, holds approximately 41.78% of our outstanding ordinary shares, as of December 31, 2014. The market price of our ordinary shares could decline as a result of future sales by DIC or other existing shareholders or the perception that these sales could occur. DIC sold approximately 5% of our outstanding shares outside the United States in 2011 and approximately 1.7% of our outstanding shares in 2013. Sales may be made pursuant to a registration statement, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, pursuant to the terms of a registration rights agreement or otherwise, or in reliance on an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, including the exemptions provided by Rule 144 or Regulation S. Any decline in our share price could also make it difficult for us to raise additional capital by selling shares. In addition, under our 2006 option plan, options are subject to vesting schedules but vesting will be accelerated upon certain events including any sale or other disposition, of all or substantially all, of the outstanding shares of us. As of December 31, 2014 we had 573,841 shares reserved for issuance upon the exercise of options and in March 2015, additional 2,795,000 shares were reserved for issuance upon the exercise of options, under our 2015 option plan. See "Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employment – E. Share Ownership – 2006 Share Incentive Plan". 