D. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business We are a young company and our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and results of operations. We have only been in existence since May 2005. We completed our first solar cell manufacturing line in March 2006 and made our first commercial shipment of solar cells in April 2006. We have since then ramped up six additional manufacturing lines and increased our total rated manufacturing capacity to 175 MW per annum. Our future success will require us to scale up our manufacturing capacity beyond our existing capacity and further expand our customer base. Our business model and ability to achieve satisfactory manufacturing yields at higher volumes are unproven. To address these risks, we must, among other things, continue to respond to competitive developments, attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, implement and successfully execute expansion plan and improve our technologies. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in addressing such risks. Although we have experienced revenue growth in recent periods, we cannot assure you that our revenue will continue to increase or continue at their current level. Our limited operating history makes the prediction of future results of operations difficult, and therefore, past revenue growth experienced by us should not be taken as indicative of the rate of revenue growth, if any, that can be expected in the future. We believe that period to period comparisons of our operating results are not meaningful and that the results for any period should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. You should consider our business and prospects, in light of the risks, uncertainties, expenses and challenges that we will face as an early-stage company seeking to develop and manufacture new products in a rapidly growing market. We currently depend on a limited number of suppliers for the supply of our silicon wafer requirements. If our suppliers fail to deliver to us sufficient quantities of silicon wafers that meet our timing, quality and cost requirements, we may not be able to find suitable alternative suppliers in a timely manner and may lose customers, market share and revenue. Our basic raw material in producing solar cells is silicon wafers. The success of our business and our growth strategy depends heavily on acquiring sufficient supply of silicon wafers to meet our existing and planned production capacity. We purchase silicon wafers from a limited number of suppliers, including Jinglong Group, M.SETEK Co., Ltd. (or M.SETEK), ReneSola Ltd. (or ReneSola), Jiangsu Shunda Semiconductor Development Co., Ltd. (or Shunda) and Jiangsu Zhongneng Silicon Technology Development Co., Ltd., a subsidiary of GCL Silicon Technology Holdings Ltd. (or GCL), with whom we have entered into long-term wafer supply contracts. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Raw Material and Utilities — Silicon Wafers.” However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to secure sufficient wafer supplies in order to operate our manufacturing lines at their full capacity. In addition, we cannot assure you that those suppliers with which we have entered into supply contracts will be able to deliver the agreed amount of wafers to us as provided under these contracts, or that we will be able to renew our supply contracts with these suppliers at commercially reasonable terms or at all when our current contracts expire. We have, from time to time, faced a shortage of silicon wafers and late or failed delivery of silicon wafers from our suppliers, and may experience additional shortage of silicon wafers or late or failed delivery in the future for reasons including, without limitation: (1) to make silicon wafers, our suppliers must purchase their own polysilicon requirements from a limited number of polysilicon suppliers and there is currently an industry-wide shortage of polysilicon; (2) our suppliers’ ability to produce silicon wafers is limited by their production capacity and may be dependant upon their successful implementation of their own expansion plans; (3) the terms of our wafer supply contracts with, or purchase orders to, our suppliers may be altered or cancelled by the suppliers with limited or no penalty to them, and in such cases we may not be able to recover damages fully or at all; (4) other than with Jinglong Group, we generally have not had a history of long-term relationships with suppliers who may be able to meet our silicon wafers needs consistently or on an emergency basis; and 6 Table of Contents (5) many of our competitors also purchase silicon wafers from our suppliers and have had longer and stronger relationships with, as well as greater buying power and bargaining leverage over, our suppliers. Furthermore, we may choose not to procure silicon wafers under certain contracts if we deem the prices under such contracts are unfavorable to us under prevailing market conditions. If we fail to obtain delivery of silicon wafers in amounts and quality and according to time schedules as agreed with the suppliers, if at all, we may be forced to reduce production or secure alternative sources, which may not provide silicon wafers in amounts required by us or at comparable or affordable prices, if at all. Our failure to obtain the required amounts of quality silicon wafers on time and at affordable prices can seriously hamper our ability to meet our contractual obligations to deliver our products to our customers. Any failure by us to meet such obligations could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, retention of customers, market share, business and results of operations and may subject us to claims from our customers and other disputes. Any such failure may also cause our customers to switch to our competitors as alternative suppliers. In addition, our failure to obtain sufficient silicon wafers will result in underutilization of our existing and planned production facilities and an increase in our marginal production cost, and may prevent us from implementing capacity expansion as currently planned. Any of the above events could have a material adverse effect on our growth, profitability and results of operations. Prepayment arrangements for procurement of silicon wafers and/or polysilicon from Jinglong Group, M.SETEK, ReneSola, Shunda, GCL and other suppliers expose us to the credit risks of such suppliers and may also significantly increase our costs and expenses, either of which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Under some of our wafer supply contracts and consistent with industry practice, we are required to make prepayments to some of our suppliers, including, among others, Jinglong Group, M.SETEK, ReneSola, Shunda and GCL. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Raw Materials and Utilities — Silicon Wafers.” As these suppliers deliver their products to us, the prepayments we have made to them are drawn down as per the terms of the relevant supply contracts. As of December 31, 2007, the outstanding balance of our prepayments to various suppliers amounted to approximately RMB 1,825 million. Between January 1, 2008 and May 8, 2008, we made additional prepayments of approximately RMB 443 million to certain of our suppliers in respect of these contracts. As of May 8, 2008, our outstanding prepayment obligations to our various suppliers amounted to approximately RMB 1,284 million. We make prepayments to these suppliers for procurement of silicon wafers or polysilicon without receiving collateral to secure such payments. Our claims for such payments would rank as unsecured claims, which expose us to the credit risks of our suppliers in the case of an insolvency or bankruptcy of such suppliers. Under such circumstances, our claims against the suppliers would rank below those of secured creditors, which would undermine our chances of obtaining the return of the prepayments. Accordingly, a default by our suppliers may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. In addition, should a supplier to whom we make prepayment default on its obligations under the supply contract, we may not be able to recover all or a portion of our outstanding prepayment. Further, even if the supplier would refund our prepayment when it defaults on its obligations under the contract, we may still suffer losses if we do not get any interest payment on such refunded prepayment and, in the situation where we made prepayment in foreign currencies, we may suffer foreign exchange losses if we would need to exchange the U.S. dollar-denominated refund payment into Renminbi, which may have been revaluated in the course of time. Furthermore, if the market price of silicon wafers were to decrease to a level that is below what we have prepaid after we make prepayment to our suppliers, we will not be able to adjust the price of any silicon wafers for which any prepayments have been made. Additionally, if demand for our solar cell products decreases, we may incur costs associated with carrying excess materials. Each of such events may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. To the extent that we are not able to pass these increased costs and expenses to our customers, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be 7 Table of Contents materially and adversely affected. We also face certain operational risks associated with our suppliers. For example, if our suppliers become subject to intellectual property infringement claims by third parties, our ability to recover our outstanding prepayments may be materially and adversely affected. We are susceptible to the current industry-wide shortage of polysilicon, which could adversely affect our ability to meet existing and future customer demand for our products and cause us to lose customers and market share, generate lower than anticipated revenues and manufacture our products at higher than expected costs. Polysilicon is the essential raw material to make silicon wafers. Polysilicon is created by refining quartz or sand, and is melted and grown into crystalline ingots. Silicon wafers are then sliced from crystalline ingots. There is currently an industry-wide shortage of polysilicon, which has resulted in limited availability of silicon wafers and significant price increases in both polysilicon and silicon wafers. As demand for solar cells has increased, many participants or companies in the solar power industry have announced plans to add additional manufacturing capacity. When the additional manufacturing capacity becomes operational, it will further increase the demand for polysilicon and may further exacerbate the current shortage. Polysilicon is also used in the semiconductor industry generally and any increase in demand from that sector could compound the shortage. Polysilicon and silicon wafer suppliers have been adding manufacturing capacity in response to the growing demand in recent years. However, building polysilicon production facilities generally requires significant capital and it typically takes an average of 18 to 24 months to construct. As a result, polysilicon and silicon wafer suppliers are generally willing to expand only if they are certain of sufficient customer demands to justify such capital commitment. Increasingly, polysilicon and silicon wafer suppliers are requiring customers to make prepayments for raw materials well in advance of their shipment, which, in turn, leads to significant working capital commitment from solar cell product manufacturers. We expect that polysilicon demand will continue to exceed supply for the foreseeable future. In order to meet our silicon wafer requirements, we have entered into long-term silicon wafer supply contracts with Jinglong Group, M.SETEK, ReneSola, Shunda and GCL. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Raw Materials and Utilities — Silicon Wafers.” We also purchase ingots or polysilicon from third party suppliers and engage Jinglong Group and other third parties to process wafers from such ingots and polysilicon for us. To further mitigate against the industry-wide shortage of polysilicon, which in turn affects the supply of silicon wafers, we have entered into a polysilicon supply agreement with M.SETEK in January 2008 to purchase polysilicon directly from M.SETEK. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Raw Materials and Utilities — Polysilicon.” We cannot assure you that we will be able to secure sufficient quantities of silicon wafers to meet our planned manufacturing requirements. Further increases in the demand for silicon wafers may cause us to encounter shortages or delays in obtaining adequate supplies of silicon wafers, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to operate at full production capacity and our ability to meet existing and future customer demand, resulting in decreased revenues and loss of customers and market share. Such failure by us to meet our delivery obligations may also have a material adverse effect on our reputation and may subject us to claims from our customers and other disputes. Furthermore, increases in prices of polysilicon and silicon wafers have increased and may continue to increase our manufacturing cost, and if we cannot pass such cost increase to our customers, our profitability and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our future success substantially depends on our ability to significantly increase our manufacturing capacity, output and sales. Our ability to carry out our expansion plans is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. In addition, we may not be able to manage our expansion effectively. Currently, we are building a new manufacturing center in Ningjin, Hebei Province, where we plan to install ten new manufacturing lines with an expected production capacity of 250 MW per annum. Two of these new lines are expected to commence operation in June 2008, while the remaining eight are expected to 8 Table of Contents commence operation at a rate of two new lines per month in each of July, August, September and October 2008. Additionally, we are preparing for a new manufacturing and R&D center in Yangzhou, Jiangsu Province, where we plan to build ten solar cell manufacturing lines by June 2009, with a total production capacity of 250 MW. Three of these new lines are expected to commence production by the end of 2008 with a production capacity of 75 MW per annum. Our ability to establish or successfully operate our additional manufacturing capacity and increase output as planned or at all is subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including: • our ability to expand and to operate new manufacturing facilities; • our ability to secure adequate supplies of silicon wafers and polysilicon, including our ability to maintain adequate working capital to make prepayments on such supplies; • delays and cost overruns associated with the build-out of any additional facilities due to factors, many of which may be beyond our control, such as delays in government approvals, problems with equipment vendors or raw material suppliers and equipment malfunctions and breakdowns; • diversion of significant management attention and other resources; and • failure to execute our expansion plan effectively. If we are unable to establish or successfully operate additional manufacturing capacity or increase our manufacturing output on schedule or otherwise, we may be unable to expand our business as planned. If we are unable to carry out our planned expansions, we may not be able to meet customer demand, which could result in lower profitability and a loss in market share. Moreover, we cannot assure you that if we do increase our manufacturing capacity and output we will be able to generate sufficient customer demand for our products to support our increased production levels. In addition, to manage the potential growth of our operations, we will be required to improve our operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, and expand, train and manage our growing employee base. We cannot assure you that we are able to improve our operations, personnel, systems, internal procedures and controls to adequately support our future growth. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, execute our business strategies or respond effectively to competitive pressures. Our future success is dependent on our initiation, maintenance and expansion of relationships with new and existing customers, suppliers and other third parties, some of which may terminate for reasons beyond our control. Due to market conditions and other factors beyond our control, certain customer and/or supplier relationships that we entered into for expanding our customer/supply base may be terminated or suspended. For example, in January 2007, we signed a customer agreement with PowerLight, a wholly-owned subsidiary of SunPower Corporation, under which we were to process polysilicon supplied by PowerLight into a total of 120 MW of solar cells. This contract was terminated by mutual agreement of the parties due to an unanticipated quality problem with respect to polysilicon supplied by PowerLight. Then in December 2007, we entered into a sales contract with Solaria Energia y Medioambiente. S.A. (or “Solaria Energia”), under which we agreed to sell up to 60 MW of solar cells to Solaria Energia. The performance of this contract is expected to resume pending the buyer’s procurement of necessary bank credit. If we are unable to initiate relationships with new customers, suppliers or other third parties, maintain or expand relationships with existing customers, supplies or other third parties, or resume or replace such relationships, our business, results of operations or financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents If we continue to have any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to timely and accurately record, process and report financial data or comply with disclosure controls and procedures, internal control over financial reporting, and other reporting obligations. During the course of the preparation and external audit of our financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2007, we and our independent registered public accounting firm identified the following material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, as defined in the standards established by the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board: • We did not have a sufficient number of finance personnel with an appropriate level of knowledge, experience and training in the application of GAAP and in internal controls over financial reporting commensurate with our reporting requirements. A material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could result in a material misstatement of our financial statements that will not be prevented or detected. While we have begun taking actions and measures to significantly improve our internal control over financial reporting in order to obtain reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial statements, we cannot assure you if or when we will be able to remedy this material weakness, that our independent registered public accounting firm will agree with our assessment, or that additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. If the material weaknesses that we have identified during the course of preparation and external audit of our financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2007 and other periods in the past recur, or if we identify additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies or fail to implement new or improved controls successfully in a timely manner, we may be unable to issue timely and accurate financial reports and investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs, or otherwise harm our reputation. In addition, as a public company we will be required to report, among other things, certain control deficiencies. If we are not able to continue to meet the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such the SEC or the NASDAQ Global Market. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our ADSs. We are committed to continuing to improve our internal control processes. However, any control system, regardless of how well-designed, operated and evaluated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that its objectives will be met. As we continue to evaluate and work to improve our internal control over financial reporting, we may take additional actions and measures to address any control deficiencies identified by us or our independent registered public accounting firm. See also “Item 15 — Controls and Procedures.” Our senior management has worked together for a relatively short period of time, which may make it difficult for you to evaluate their effectiveness and ability to address challenges. Due to our limited operating history and recent changes to our management team, certain of our senior management and employees have worked together at our company for a relatively short period of time. For example, in September 2007, we hired a number of additional executive officers, including our president and chief operating officer, Dr. Kang Sun, our vice president of operations and acting chief technology officer, Dr. Qingtang Jiang, our vice president of business development, Ms. Jane Wu, and our vice president of sales and marketing, Mr. Raymond P. Wilson. 10 Table of Contents In December 2007, Dr. Ximing Dai, who had been our chief technology officer since July 2006, resigned from her seat on our Board of Directors and her post as our chief technology officer. She left our company in February 2008. Her resignation was tendered for personal reasons and she departed on amicable terms. We have continued to utilize in our operations certain proprietary technical know-how that was transferred to us by Australia PV Science & Engineering Co., a company wholly owned by Dr. Ximing Dai., as part of her initial capital contribution to our company. After Dr. Ximing Dai’s resignation, Dr. Qingtang Jiang became our acting chief technology officer. Mr. Hexu Zhao, who has been our chief financial officer since July 2006, will resign from his post as our chief financial officer on May 9, 2008. His replacement, Mr. Daniel Lui, is a finance executive with over 20 years of working experience and had served as chief financial officer for various technology-related companies operating in the greater China market, including China Motion NetCom Ltd., Fiberxon Technology (Shenzhen) Co. Ltd. and PacificNet Inc. (the last of which is currently opposing an involuntary bankruptcy petition brought on by certain of its lenders). In light of the foregoing circumstances, it may be difficult for you to evaluate the effectiveness of our senior management and their ability to address future challenges to our business. Members of our senior management may not work together effectively as a team to manage our growth successfully, which could result in us losing market share, business opportunity and revenues. As we have granted and will continue to grant employee share options to certain of our directors, officers, employees and consultants, our net income will be adversely affected. Under our 2006 stock incentive plan, we may grant options to purchase up to 10% of our issued share capital to certain of our directors, employees and consultants. As of May 1, 2008, we have granted options to purchase 9,185,000 ordinary shares to a number of our directors, employees and consultants. From January 1, 2007 to May 1, 2008, unvested options granted to certain employees and consultants, amounting to 472,000 ordinary shares, were cancelled after the termination of these individuals’ employment or services with us. See “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees — B. Compensation — Stock Option Plan.” Additionally, some of our executive officers received restricted stock units, or RSUs, for 510,000 ordinary shares in September 2007. RSUs are a promise by the Company to issue ordinary shares at the time that each underlying RSU vests. The RSUs are not legally issued ordinary shares nor do they comprise outstanding ordinary shares and therefore, do not give their holders voting or dividend rights. These shares will be issued to them if they remain employed with us for the vesting period starting from their respective date of employment with us. Mr. Huaijin Yang, our chief executive officer, has agreed to cause Improve Forever Investment Limited, a shareholder of ours that is controlled by Mr. Huaijin Yang, to surrender to our company the same number of our ordinary shares for us to settle these RSUs when they vest. As of March 31, 2008, 450,000 RSUs have vested to their respective holders. In accordance with Statement No. 123 (Revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment,” or SFAS 123(R), of the Financial Accounting Standards Board, which requires all companies to recognize, as an expense, the fair value of share options and other share-based compensation to employees, we are required to account for compensation costs for all share options including share options and RSUs granted to our directors, employees and consultants using a fair-value based method and recognize expenses in our consolidated statement of operations in accordance with the relevant rules under U.S. GAAP. Our share-based compensation expenses have a material and adverse effect on our reported earnings for the year ending December 31, 2007 and over their vesting periods. Moreover, the additional expenses associated with share-based compensation may reduce the attractiveness of such incentive plan to us. However, if we stop granting options, or reduce the number of options granted, under our stock incentive plan, we may not be able to attract and retain key personnel, as share options 11 Table of Contents are an important employee recruitment and retention tool. As we have granted and will continue to grant employee share options or other share-based compensation in the future, our net income will be adversely affected. There are potential conflicts of interest between us and our largest shareholder, Jinglong BVI. Jinglong BVI, which is controlled by the shareholders of Jinglong Group, is our largest shareholder. In addition, Mr. Baofang Jin, the chairman of our Board of Directors, is a shareholder of Jinglong BVI and is also the chairman of Jinglong Group. Jinglong Group currently provides a number of products and services to us, including silicon wafer supply and real property leases. Our transactions with Jinglong Group are governed by a number of contracts between Jinglong Group and us, the terms of which were negotiated on an arm’s length basis. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — B. Related Party Transactions —Transactions with Jinglong Group.” However, the interest of Jinglong BVI may conflict with our own interest with respect to our transactions with Jinglong Group. As a result, we may have limited ability to negotiate with Jinglong Group over the terms of the agreements because Jinglong BVI may exert significant influence on our affairs through our Board of Directors which could cause us to take actions that may not be in our best interests. In addition, Jinglong BVI may be able to prevent us from taking actions to enforce or exercise our rights under the agreements we entered into with Jinglong Group. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that our transactions with Jinglong Group will always be concluded on terms favorable to us or maintained at the current level or at all in the future. We currently sell a significant portion of our solar cell products to a limited number of customers. Our dependence on these customers may cause significant fluctuations or declines in our revenues. We currently sell a substantial portion of our products to a limited number of customers, most of which are module manufacturers based in China. For the year ended December 31, 2007, approximately 41.1% of our total revenues were derived from sales of our solar cell products to our three largest customers. Sales to our top ten customers accounted for approximately 78.8% of total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007. We anticipate that our dependence on a limited number of customers will continue for the foreseeable future. Consequently, any one of the following events may cause material fluctuations or declines in our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations: • reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more of our significant customers; • selection of our competitor’s products by one or more of our significant customers; • loss of one or more of our significant customers and our failure to identify additional or replacement customers; and • failure of any of our significant customers to make timely payment for our products. We compete in a highly competitive market and many of our competitors have resources greater than ours. The solar power market is intensely competitive and rapidly evolving. We expect to face increased competition, which may result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share. In the global market, our competitors include photovoltaic divisions of large conglomerates, such as BP Solar International Inc., Schott AG, Sharp Corporation, Mitsubishi Electric Corporation and Sanyo Electric Co., Ltd., specialized cell and module manufacturers such as Motech Industries, Inc., E-Ton Solar Tech Co., Ltd., Q-Cells AG, as well as integrated manufacturers of photovoltaic products such as SolarWorld AG. In the Chinese market, we compete with Suntech Power Co., Ltd., China Sunergy Co., Ltd., Solarfun Power Holdings Co., Ltd., Yingli Green Energy Holding Company Limited and Jiangyin Jetion Science & Technology Co., Ltd. Some of our competitors have become vertically integrated, from upstream silicon wafer manufacturing to solar power system integration. We expect to compete with future entrants to the photovoltaic market that offer new technological solutions. We may 12 Table of Contents also face competition from semiconductor manufacturers, several of which have already announced their intention to start production of solar cells. Many of our competitors are developing or currently producing products based on new photovoltaic technologies, including thin film, ribbon, sheet and nano technologies, which they believe will ultimately cost the same as or less than crystalline silicon technologies used by us. In addition, the entire photovoltaic industry also faces competition from conventional and non-solar renewable energy technologies. Due to the relatively high manufacturing costs compared to most other energy sources, solar energy is generally not competitive without government incentive programs. Many of our existing and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing and other resources than we do. Our competitors’ greater size and longer operating history in some cases provide them with a competitive advantage with respect to manufacturing costs because of their economies of scale and their ability to purchase raw materials at lower prices. For example, those of our competitors that also manufacture semiconductors may source both semiconductor grade silicon wafers and solar grade silicon wafers from the same supplier. As a result, such competitors may have stronger bargaining power with the supplier and have an advantage over us in pricing as well as securing silicon wafer supplies at times of shortages. Many of our competitors also have greater brand name recognition, more established distribution networks and larger customer bases. In addition, many of our competitors have well-established relationships with our existing and potential customers and have extensive knowledge of our target markets. As a result, they may be able to devote greater resources to the research, development, promotion and sale of their products and respond more quickly to evolving industry standards and changes in market conditions than we can. Our failure to adapt to changing market conditions and to compete successfully with existing or new competitors may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we do not achieve satisfactory yields or quality in our production of solar cells, our sales could decrease and our relationships with our customers and our reputation may be harmed. The manufacture of solar cells is a highly complex process. Minor deviations in the manufacturing process can cause substantial decreases in yields, affect the quality of the product and in some cases, cause production to be suspended or yield products unfit for commercial sale. This often occurs during the production of new products or the installation and start-up of new process technologies or equipment. Currently, we are building ten new solar cell manufacturing lines in Ningjin, Hebei Province, which we expect will, upon their expected completion, increase our production capacity by 250 MW per annum. Two of these lines are expected to commence operation in June 2008, while the remaining eight are expected to commence operation at a rate of two new lines per month in each of July, August, September and October 2008. We are also building a new R&D center and three new solar cell manufacturing lines in Yangzhou, Jiangsu Province, which we expect will, upon their expected completion by the end of 2008, increase our production capacity by 75 MW per annum. In addition, we are preparing for the construction of seven additional new manufacturing lines in Yangzhou, which we expect will, upon their expected completion in June 2009, increase our production capacity by 175 MW per annum. As we expand our manufacturing capacity and add additional manufacturing lines or facilities into production, we may experience lower yields and conversion efficiencies initially as is typical with any new equipment or process. We also expect to experience lower yields initially if we modify our manufacturing processes by utilizing thinner wafers. If we do not achieve satisfactory yields or quality, our product costs could increase, our sales could decrease and our relationships with our customers and our reputation could be harmed, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents We may face risks associated with the marketing, distribution and sale of our products internationally, and if we are unable to effectively manage these risks, they could impair our ability to expand our business abroad. As part of our growth strategy, we plan to expand our sales in new and existing markets, including overseas markets. Any international marketing, distribution and sale of our products will expose us to a number of risks, including: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • difficulty in engaging and retaining distributors who are knowledgeable about, and can function effectively in, overseas markets; • increased costs associated with maintaining marketing efforts in various countries; • difficulty and cost relating to compliance with the different commercial and legal requirements of the overseas markets in which we offer our products; • inability to obtain, maintain or enforce intellectual property rights; and • trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and other restrictions and expenses, which could increase the prices of our products and make us less competitive in some countries. If we are unable to effectively manage these risks, we may not be able to successfully expand our business abroad and grow our businesses as we have planned. Our quarterly revenues and operating results may be difficult to predict and could fall below investor expectations, which could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. Our quarterly revenues and operation results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly depending upon numerous factors, including seasonality of demand for solar power products, changes in market conditions and industry environment, and changes in government policies or regulations. For example, purchases of solar power products tend to decrease due to severe weather conditions in winter months, which complicates the installation of solar power systems. Many of these factors are beyond our control, making our quarterly results difficult to predict, which could cause the trading price of our ADSs to decline if our operating results for any particular quarter fall below investor expectations. If photovoltaic technology is not suitable for widespread adoption, or sufficient demand for solar power products does not develop or takes longer to develop than we anticipated, our sales may not continue to increase or may even decline, and we may be unable to sustain profitability. The solar power market is at a relatively early stage of development and the extent to which solar power products will be widely adopted is uncertain. Market data in the solar power industry are not as readily available as those in other more established industries where trends can be assessed more reliably from data gathered over a longer period of time. Many factors may affect the viability of widespread adoption of photovoltaic technology and demand for solar power products, including: • cost-effectiveness of solar power products compared to conventional and other non-solar energy sources and products; • performance and reliability of solar power products compared to conventional and other non-solar energy sources and products; • availability of government subsidies and incentives to support the development of the solar power industry; • success of other alternative energy generation technologies, such as fuel cells, wind power and biomass; 14 Table of Contents • fluctuations in economic and market conditions that affect the viability of conventional and non-solar alternative energy sources, such as increases or decreases in the prices of oil and other fossil fuels; and • capital expenditures by end users of solar power products, which tend to decrease when the economy slows down. The solar power market also competes with other sources of renewable energy and conventional power generation. If prices for conventional and other renewable energy resources decline, or if these resources enjoy greater policy support than solar power, the solar power market could suffer. If photovoltaic technology proves unsuitable for widespread adoption or if demand for solar power products fails to develop sufficiently, we may not be able to grow our business or generate sufficient revenues to sustain our profitability. In addition, demand for solar power products in our target markets may not develop or may develop to a lesser extent than we anticipated. Our failure to further refine our technology and manufacturing processes and develop and introduce new solar power products could render our products uncompetitive or obsolete, and reduce our sales and market share. The solar power industry is rapidly evolving and becoming more competitive. We will need to invest significant financial resources in research and development to keep pace with technological advances in the solar power industry and to effectively compete in the future. However, research and development activities are inherently uncertain, and we might encounter practical difficulties in commercializing our research results. A variety of competing photovoltaic technologies that other companies may develop could prove to be more cost-effective and have better performance than solar power products that we develop. Therefore, our development efforts may be rendered obsolete by the technological advances of others. Breakthroughs in photovoltaic technologies that do not use crystalline silicon could mean that companies such as us that rely entirely on crystalline silicon would encounter a sudden, sharp drop in sales. Our failure to further refine our technology and develop and introduce new solar power products could render our products uncompetitive or obsolete, and result in a decline in our market share as well as our revenues and profits. One of the alternative technologies in the production of solar cells is thin film technology, which involves depositing several thin layers of silicon or more complex materials on a substrate such as glass to make a solar cell. The use of thin film technology in the production of solar cells would significantly reduce the consumption of silicon materials and manufacturing costs. Some universities, research institutions and companies in the solar power industry have devoted resources to the research and development on commercialization of thin film technology in the production of solar cells. New developments in commercialization of thin film technology may render our existing technologies obsolete and our products uncompetitive, which would result in loss in our profitability and market share and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any new development or adjustment in the manufacturing processes may affect our ability to maintain our competitive position. For example, we currently only produce monocrystalline solar cells because our wafer supplies are monocrystalline. If our new suppliers provide us with multicrystalline silicon wafers, we believe that we are capable of producing multicrystalline solar cells by making minor adjustments in our manufacturing processes. However, we cannot assure you that we can competitively produce solar cells from multicrystalline silicon wafers. Any failure to refine our manufacturing processes to competitively produce new solar cell products may result in a loss of our market share and revenue, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents The reduction or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives could cause our revenue to decline. We believe that the near-term growth of the market for on-grid applications, where solar power is used to supplement a customer’s electricity purchased from the utility network, depends in a large part on the availability and size of government subsidies and economic incentives. The solar power market is segmented into two main application types: on-grid applications and off-grid applications. The reduction or elimination of government and economic incentives may adversely affect the growth of this market or result in increased price competition, both of which could cause our revenue to decline and materially and adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations. Today, the cost of solar power exceeds the cost of power furnished by the electric utility grid in many locations. As a result, government bodies in many countries, most notably Germany, Spain, Japan and the U.S., have provided incentives in the form of rebates, tax credits and other incentives to end users, distributors, system integrators and manufacturers of solar power products to promote the use of solar energy in on-grid applications and to reduce dependency on other forms of energy. These government economic incentives could be reduced or eliminated altogether. For example, Germany has been a strong supporter of solar power products and systems and political changes in Germany could result in significant reductions or eliminations of incentives, including the reduction of feed-in tariffs over time. Some solar program incentives expire or decline over time or are limited in total funding or require renewal of authority. Reductions in, or eliminations or expirations of, these governmental subsidies and economic incentives could result in decreased demand for our products and cause our revenue to decline. In addition, despite governmental subsidies and economic incentives, these countries may from time to time experience a slowdown in demand for photovoltaic products. This may also have an adverse effect on our revenues. The lack or unavailability of financing or an increase in interest rates could make it impossible or difficult for end-users to finance the cost of solar power systems and could reduce the demand for our solar cells. The end products that use our solar cells are used in both on-grid applications and off-grid applications. Off-grid applications are used where access to utility networks is not economical or physically feasible. Government agencies and the private sector have, from time to time, provided financing on preferential terms to promote the use of solar energy in both on-grid and off-grid applications. We believe that the availability and cost of such financing programs could have a significant effect on the level of sales of solar power products. If existing financing programs for on-grid and off-grid applications are eliminated or if financing in general become inaccessible or inadequate, the growth of the market for on-grid and off-grid applications may be materially and adversely affected, which could cause our sales of solar cells to decline. In addition, for those end-users who depend on debt financing to fund the initial capital expenditure required to purchase and install a solar power system, an increase in interest rates could make it difficult for them to secure the financing necessary to purchase and install a solar power system on favorable terms, or at all and thus lower demand for our solar cells and reduce our net sales. Furthermore, we believe that a significant percentage of the end-users install solar power systems as an investment, funding the initial capital expenditure through a combination of equity and debt. An increase in interest rates could lower investors’ return on investment in solar power systems, or make alternative investments more attractive relative to solar power systems, and, in each case, could cause these end-users to seek alternative investments. Future increases in the supply of polysilicon, increased competition and other changing market conditions may cause a decline in the demand and average selling prices of solar cells and may potentially increase the level of our earnings volatility and reduce our profitability. Due to the current shortage of polysilicon, solar cell manufacturers are experiencing over-capacity. However, it is generally expected that the polysilicon supply constraints will ease in 2009 as silicon producers increase their production. Any significant increase in the polysilicon supply may allow higher utilization of 16 Table of Contents existing and planned solar cell production capacity which could result in significant downward pressure on the average selling prices of solar cells. In addition, increased competition from existing solar cell producers and new market participants as well as changes in other market conditions, such as reduced demand for solar power products in the end user markets, may cause a decline in the demand and average selling prices of solar cells from time to time. The average selling price of our solar cells has decreased from RMB 25.9 per watt in 2006 to RMB 22.5 per watt in 2007; and we expect such decline to continue over time. If we are unable to lower our production cost per watt to the same extent as the average selling price per watt declines, the level of our earnings volatility would increase and our profitability would decline, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We obtain certain manufacturing equipment from sole or a limited number of suppliers and if such equipment is damaged or otherwise unavailable, our ability to deliver products on time will suffer, which in turn could result in order cancellations and loss of revenue. Some of our equipment used in the manufacture of our solar cell products has been developed and made specifically for us, is not readily available from alternative vendors and would be difficult to repair or replace if it were to become damaged or stop working. In addition, we obtain some equipment from sole or a limited number of suppliers. If any of these suppliers were to experience financial difficulties or go out of business, or if there were any damage to or a breakdown of our manufacturing equipment at a time when we are manufacturing commercial quantities of our products, our business would suffer. In addition, a supplier’s failure to supply our ordered equipment in a timely manner, with adequate quality and on terms acceptable to us, could delay the capacity expansion of our manufacturing facilities and otherwise disrupt our production schedule or increase our costs of production. Problems with product quality or product performance may cause us to incur warranty expenses, damage our market reputation and prevent us from achieving increased sales and market share, or result in a decrease in our revenues and market share. While we employ quality assurance procedures at key manufacturing stages to identify and resolve quality issues, our solar cells may contain defects that are not detected until after they are shipped or installed. These defects could cause us to incur significant re-engineering costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from product development efforts, lead to returns of, or requests to return our products and significantly affect our customer relations and business reputation. If we deliver solar cells with errors or defects, or if there is a perception that our solar cells contain errors or defects, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our solar power products could be harmed. In addition to our core business of producing solar cells, we also provide solar module assembly services to our customers, whereby third party OEM companies are engaged by us to assemble the solar cells we produce into solar modules as required by our customers. With respect to these solar modules, we provide either (i) a 2 to 5 year warranty that the modules will be free from defects in materials and workmanship from the production date, or (ii) a 10 and 25 year performance warranty against declines of more than 10.0% and 20.0% of initial power generation capacity from the time of delivery. As a result of these warranties, we bear the risk of extensive warranty claims long after we have sold our products and recognized revenue. We therefore, in accordance with industry practices, accrue 1% of our sales of solar modules as a warranty cost. The total sales of solar modules in 2007 was RMB 92.9 million (US$12.7 million). Consequently, we incurred an estimated warranty cost of RMB 0.9 million (US$0.1 million). Because we just started to provide our solar module assembly services, the solar modules have been in use for only a relatively short period, we cannot assure you that our assumptions regarding the durability and reliability of our products are reasonable. Our warranty provisions may be inadequate, and we may have to incur substantial expense to repair or replace defective products in the future. Furthermore, widespread product failures may damage our market reputation and cause our sales to decline. 17 Table of Contents The success of our business depends on the continuing efforts of our key personnel and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, train and retain qualified technical personnel, particularly those with expertise in the solar power industry. There is substantial competition for qualified technical personnel, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain our qualified technical personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified technical personnel, our business may be materially and adversely affected. We rely heavily on the continued services of our executive officers, including Mr. Huaijin Yang, our chief executive officer and Dr. Kang Sun, our president and chief operating officer. If one or more of our executive officers are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily or at all. As a result, our business may be severely disrupted and we may incur additional expenses to recruit and retain new officers. In addition, if any of our executives joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose some or all of our customers. We believe our future success will depend upon our ability to retain these key employees and our ability to attract and retain other skilled managerial, engineering and sales and marketing personnel. Each of our executive officers and other key personnel has entered into an employment agreement with us, which contains confidentiality and non-competition provisions. However, if any disputes arise between our employees and us, we cannot assure you, in light of uncertainties associated with the PRC legal system, the extent to which any of these agreements could be enforced in China, where some of our executive officers reside and hold some of their assets. See “— Risks Related to Doing Business in China — Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could have a material adverse effect on us.” Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights may undermine our competitive position, and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights may be costly and may not be resolved in our favor. We seek to protect our proprietary manufacturing processes, documentation and other written materials primarily through intellectual property laws and contractual restrictions. However, we have not obtained patent protection for our technology related to the manufacture of our solar cells. Instead, we rely on trade secrets and other similar protections. We also require employees and consultants with access to our proprietary information to execute confidentiality agreements with us. The steps taken by us to protect our proprietary information may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology. In addition, our proprietary rights may not be adequately protected because: • people may not be deterred from misappropriating our technologies despite the existence of laws or contracts prohibiting it; • policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property may be difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and we may be unable to determine the extent of any unauthorized use; and • enforcement under intellectual property laws in China may be slow and difficult in light of the application of such laws and the uncertainties associated with the PRC legal system. See “— Risks related to Doing Business in China — Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could have a material adverse effect on us.” Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technologies could enable third parties to benefit from our technologies without paying us for doing so. Any inability to adequately protect our proprietary rights could harm our ability to compete, to generate revenue and to grow our business. We cannot assure you that infringement of our intellectual property rights by other parties does not exist now or that it will not occur in the future. To protect our intellectual property rights and to maintain our competitive advantage, we may file suits against parties who we believe infringe our intellectual property. Such 18 Table of Contents litigation may be costly and may divert management attention as well as expend our other resources away from our business. In certain situations, we may have to bring suit in foreign jurisdictions, in which case we are subject to additional risks as to the result of the proceedings and the amount of damage that we can recover. An adverse determination in any such litigation will impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects and reputation. In addition, we have no insurance coverage against litigation costs and would have to bear all costs arising from such litigation to the extent we are unable to recover them from other parties. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be exposed to infringement or misappropriation claims by third parties, which, if determined adversely to us, could cause us to lose significant rights and pay significant damage awards. Our success also depends largely on our ability to use and develop our technology and know-how without infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. The validity and scope of claims relating to photovoltaic technology patents involve complex scientific, legal and factual questions and analysis and, therefore, may be highly uncertain. Although we are not currently aware of any parties pursuing or intending to pursue infringement claims against us, we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to such claims in the future. Also, because patent applications in many jurisdictions are kept confidential for 18 months before they are published, we may be unaware of other persons’ pending patent applications that relate to our products or processes. Our wafer suppliers may also become subject to infringement claims, which in turn could negatively impact our business as they may no longer be able to fulfill their wafer delivery obligations under their contracts with us or refund our outstanding prepayments in a timely manner or at all. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, patent opposition proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in any such litigation or proceedings to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liability to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties, to pay ongoing royalties, or to redesign our products or subject us to injunctions prohibiting the manufacture and sale of our products or the use of our technologies. Protracted litigation could also result in our customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our products until resolution of such litigation. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Although a substantial portion of our solar cells are used in products sold outside China, we currently have no intention to apply for any patents outside China. Our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected if our sales outside China were to be restricted by intellectual property claims by third parties. We do not have, and have not applied for, any patent for our proprietary technologies outside China although we believe a substantial portion of our solar cells are used in products sold outside China. As a result, others may independently develop substantially equivalent technologies, or otherwise gain access to our proprietary technologies, and obtain patents for such intellectual properties in other jurisdictions, including the countries to which our solar cell products are sold ultimately. If any third parties are successful in obtaining patents for technologies that are substantially equivalent or the same as the technologies we use in our solar cell products in any of our markets before we do and enforce their intellectual property rights against us, our ability to sell products containing the allegedly infringing intellectual property in those markets will be materially and adversely affected. If we are required to stop selling such allegedly infringing products, seek license and pay royalties for the relevant intellectual properties, or redesign such products with non-infringing technologies, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents Changes to existing regulations over the utility sector and the solar power industry may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the purchase and use of solar power products, which may significantly reduce demand for our products. The market for power generation products is heavily influenced by government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry, as well as the internal policies of electric utilities companies. These regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing and technical interconnection of end user-owned power generation. In a number of countries, these regulations and policies are being modified and may continue to be modified. End users’ purchases of alternative energy sources, including solar power products, could be deterred by these regulations and policies, which could result in a significant reduction in the potential demand for our solar power products. For example, utility companies commonly charge fees to larger, industrial customers for disconnecting from the electricity transmission grid or for having the capacity to use power from the electricity transmission grid for back-up purposes. These fees could increase end users’ costs of using our solar power products and make products that use our solar cells less desirable, thereby having an adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We anticipate that products that use our solar cells and their installation will be subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with national and local ordinances relating to building codes, safety, environmental protection, utility interconnection and metering and related matters in various countries. It is also burdensome to track the requirements of individual localities and design equipment to comply with the varying standards. Any new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to products that use our solar cells may result in significant additional expenses to us and end users and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction in demand for our solar cells and the products that use our solar cells. Compliance with environmental regulations can be expensive, and noncompliance with these regulations may result in adverse publicity and potentially significant monetary damages and fines. As we use, generate and discharge toxic, volatile and otherwise hazardous chemicals and wastes in our research and development and manufacturing activities, we are required by PRC law to obtain pollutant discharging permits and undergo government-administered safety examinations with respect to our production facilities. As of the date of this annual report, our pollutant discharging permits are pending renewal by PRC environmental regulatory agencies, which we expect to be completed after these agencies complete their inspection of our new manufacturing lines. So far, we have not been assessed any penalty for any non-compliance with PRC environmental laws and regulations. However, we may be required to pay fines, suspend production or cease operation. Any failure by us to control the use of or to adequately restrict the discharge of hazardous substances could subject us to potentially significant monetary damages and fines or suspensions in our business operations. We have limited insurance coverage and may incur significant losses resulting from operating hazards, product liability claims or business interruptions. As with other solar power product manufacturers, our operations involve the use, handling, generation, processing, storage, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials, which may result in fires, explosions, spills and other unexpected or dangerous accidents causing personal injuries or death, property damages, environmental damages and business interruptions. We do not currently carry any third-party liability insurance against claims relating to personal injury, property or environmental damage arising from accidents on our properties or relating to our operations. Any occurrence of these or other accidents in our operation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are also exposed to risks associated with product liability claims in the event that the use of the solar power products we sell results in injury. Although our solar cell products do not generate electricity without being incorporated into modules or other solar power devices, it is possible that users could be injured or killed 20 Table of Contents by modules or other devices incorporating our solar cells, whether by product malfunctions, defects, improper installation or other causes. We only commenced commercial shipment of our products in April 2006 and, due to limited historical experience, we are unable to predict whether product liability claims will be brought against us in the future or the effect of any resulting adverse publicity on our business. Moreover, we do not have any product liability insurance and may not have adequate resources to satisfy a judgment in the event of a successful claim against us. The successful assertion of product liability claims against us could result in potentially significant monetary damages and require us to make significant payments. In addition, the normal operation of our manufacturing facilities may be interrupted by accidents caused by operating hazards, power supply disruptions, equipment failures, as well as natural disasters. For example, our manufacturing facilities in Ningjin experienced a scheduled five-day power outage in November 2006 due to an overhaul of the power grid in the Ningjin area. As the insurance industry in China is still in an early stage of development, business interruption insurance available in China offers limited coverage compared to that offered in many other countries. We do not have any business interruption insurance. Any business disruption or natural disaster could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, and our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. For strategic reasons and in an effort to maximize returns on our unused capital reserves, we may, from time to time, invest in available-for-sale securities purchased on the open market, which may, due to market forces beyond our control, result in the recognition of losses that will adversely affect our financial results. For both strategic reasons and in an effort to maximize the return on our unused capital reserves, we have invested in certain available-for-sale securities purchased on the open market. The fair value of these securities are driven by market forces beyond our control and may decline over time. To protect the value of our investment and minimize the recognition of losses, if any, we may, from time to time, dispose of such securities at the discretion of our board of directors. To the extent that we, in compliance with GAAP and other applicable rules and regulations, determine that a decline in the fair value of any of our available-for-sale securities is other-than-temporary, we are obligated to recognize such decline as a loss, which will in turn adversely affect our financial results. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. All of our business operations are conducted in China and most of our sales are made in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: • the amount of government involvement; • the level of development; • the growth rate; • the control of foreign exchange; and • the allocation of resources. While the Chinese economy has grown significantly in the past 20 years, the growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit 21 Table of Contents the overall Chinese economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. The Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the PRC government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the PRC government could materially and adversely affect our business. The PRC government also exercises significant control over Chinese economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Efforts by the PRC government to slow the pace of growth of the Chinese economy could result in decreased capital expenditure by solar energy users, which in turn could reduce demand for our products. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth and the level of renewable energy investments and expenditures in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our businesses. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could have a material adverse effect on us. We conduct substantially all of our business inside China through our various wholly-owned subsidiaries and is therefore subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China, including laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. Our operating subsidiaries in China are subject to legal limitations in paying dividends to us. The payment of dividends by entities organized in China is subject to limitations. Regulations in the PRC currently permit payment of dividends by our PRC subsidiaries only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in China. Our subsidiaries are also required to set aside at least 10.0% of their after-tax profits based on PRC accounting standards each year to their general reserves until the accumulative amount of such reserves reach 50.0% of their respective registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. In addition, at the discretion of their respective Board of Directors, our PRC subsidiaries may allocate a portion of their after-tax profits to their respective staff welfare and bonus funds, which may not be distributed to equity owners except in the event of liquidation. Further, if our PRC subsidiaries incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Limitations on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends, or otherwise fund and conduct our business. According to relevant PRC tax laws and regulations, all profits accumulated up to December 31, 2007 by our PRC subsidiaries can be distributed to us free of withholding tax. Under the new PRC tax law and its implementation rules, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008, however, profits generated by our PRC subsidiaries after December 31, 2007 will be subject to a 10% withholding tax if they are to be distributed to us as dividends. 22 Table of Contents Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi versus that of other foreign currencies may have a material adverse effect on our business and on your investment. The change in value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar, Euro and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in an appreciation of the Renminbi from approximately RMB 8.2765 per US$1.00 as of July 21, 2005 to RMB 6.9860 per US$1.00 as of May 6, 2008. While the international reaction to the Renminbi revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. As a significant portion of our costs and expenses is denominated in Renminbi, the revaluation in July 2005 and potential future revaluation has and could further increase our costs. In addition, any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ADSs in foreign currency terms. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars received from our initial public offering and our follow-on offering into Renminbi for our operations, an appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the Renminbi amount we receive from the conversion. In this particular regard, for the year ended December 31, 2007, we incurred foreign exchange loss totaling up to RMB 112.8 million (US$15.5 million). Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi may have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available for these purposes. In addition, an appreciation in the value of the Renminbi against foreign currencies could make our solar cells more expensive for our international customers as well as reduce the competitiveness of our PRC customers in the international market, thus potentially leading to a reduction in our sales and profitability. Furthermore, many of our competitors are foreign companies that could benefit from such a currency fluctuation, making it more difficult for us to compete with these companies. PRC regulations on currency exchange and foreign investment may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively and may delay or prevent us from using the proceeds we have received from our initial public offering and our follow-on offering to make loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiaries. Substantially all of our revenues and a significant portion of our expenses are denominated in Renminbi. If our revenues denominated in Renminbi increase or expenses denominated in Renminbi decrease in the future, we may need to convert a portion of our revenues into other currencies to meet our foreign currency obligations, including, among others, payment of dividends declared, if any, in respect of our ordinary shares. Under China’s existing foreign exchange regulations, our PRC subsidiaries are able to pay dividends in foreign currencies, without prior approval from the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not take further measures in the future to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. Foreign exchange transactions by our PRC subsidiaries under the capital account continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of PRC governmental authorities, including the SAFE. To utilize the proceeds of our initial public offering and our follow-on offering as an offshore holding company of our PRC operating subsidiaries, we may make loans to our PRC subsidiaries, or we may make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries. Any loans to our PRC subsidiaries are subject to PRC regulations. For example, loans by us to our subsidiaries in China, which are foreign-invested enterprises, to finance their activities cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with the SAFE. 23 Table of Contents We may also finance our subsidiaries by means of capital contributions. These capital contributions must be approved by the PRC Ministry of Commerce or its local counterparts (“MOFCOM”). We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future capital contributions by us to our subsidiaries. If we fail to receive such approvals, our ability to use the proceeds we have received from our initial public offering and our follow-on offering and to capitalize our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. Our business benefits from certain PRC government incentives. Expiration of, or changes to, these incentives could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In accordance with the PRC’s Foreign Enterprise Income Tax (“FEIT”) Law and the related implementation rules, foreign-invested enterprises (“FIEs”) established in the PRC are generally subject to FEIT at a state tax rate of 30% plus a local tax rate of 3% on PRC taxable income. Our operating subsidiary, JA Hebei, was established as a foreign-invested enterprise in the PRC and is thus subject to PRC enterprise income tax of 33%. The PRC government has provided certain incentives to foreign invested companies in order to encourage foreign investments, including tax exemptions, tax reductions and other measures. Under the FEIT Law and the related implementation rules, FIEs are entitled to be exempted from FEIT for a 2-year period starting from their first profit-making year followed by a 50% reduction of FEIT payable for the subsequent three years, provided that they fall into the category of production-oriented enterprises with an operational period of more than 10 years in China, subject to approval from and modification by local taxation authorities. Specifically, with respect to income generated by assets acquired by JA Hebei during the fiscal years 2005 and 2006, JA Hebei will receive a two-year enterprise income tax exemption for 2006 and 2007, as well as a 50% enterprise income tax reduction for 2008, 2009 and 2010. With respect to income generated by assets newly acquired by JA Hebei through capital injection made during May and August of 2007 (the “2007 newly-acquired assets”), JA Hebei could receive a two-year enterprise income tax exemption for 2007 and 2008, as well as a 50% enterprise income tax reduction for 2009, 2010 and 2011, subject to the approval of the provincial tax authority. JA Hebei has obtained the approval of the relevant provincial-level tax authority in this regard. In March 2007, the National People’s Congress of China enacted a new Corporate Income Tax Law, or CIT Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008 and replaced the FEIT Law. The CIT Law imposes a unified income tax rate of 25% on all domestic enterprises and foreign-invested enterprises unless they qualify under certain limited exceptions. The CIT Law provides a transition period to FIEs, during which they are permitted to grandfather their existing preferential income tax treatment until such treatment expires in accordance with its current terms. In December 2007, the State Council promulgated the Notice on Implementation of Corporate Income Tax regarding Transition Period Preferential Treatment (the “Transition Period Implementation Rules”). In general the CIT Law does not affect the preferential tax treatment enjoyed by JA Hebei during the 5-year transition period. However, the CIT law and the Transition Period Implementation Rules did not clearly address the application of the transitional preferential policies to assets acquired by a qualified entity through new capital injection after March 16, 2007. Therefore, there might be uncertainty as to whether the additional “2 year exemption plus three year 50% tax reduction” will be granted by the local tax authority to JA Hebei on profits generated from assets it acquires through new capital injection after March 16, 2007. When our currently available tax benefits expire or otherwise become unavailable, the effective income tax rate of JA Hebei will increase significantly, and any increase of JA Hebei’s income tax rate in the future could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In accordance with the CIT Law, FIEs which were duly formed before the promulgation of CIT Law may continue to enjoy their fixed period tax exemption and preferential tax reduction after the date of effectiveness of the CIT Law. For FIEs that have not yet made any profit, such fixed term of tax exemption and preferential tax reduction shall be calculated from January 1, 2008 onwards. JA Yangzhou was incorporated on September 7, 2006 as a FIE and subsequently acquired by JA BVI on November 19, 2007. It might enjoy a two-year enterprise income tax exemption for 2008 and 2009, as well as a 50% enterprise income tax reduction 24 Table of Contents for 2010, 2011 and 2012, subject to the approval of its competent tax authority. In the event that JA Yangzhou cannot obtain such approval, it might not enjoy such enterprise income tax preferential treatment and our profits might be adversely affected. Dividends we receive from our operating subsidiaries located in the PRC may be subject to PRC withholding tax. The newly enacted CIT Law provides that a maximum income tax rate of 20% may be applicable to dividends payable to non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” to the extent such dividends are derived from sources within the PRC, and the State Council has reduced such rate to 10% through the implementation regulations. We are a Cayman Islands holding company and substantially all of our income may be derived from dividends we receive from our operating subsidiaries located in the PRC. Thus, dividends paid to us by our subsidiaries in China may be subject to the 10% income tax if we are considered as a “non-resident enterprise” under the CIT Law. If we are required under the CIT Law to pay income tax for any dividends we receive from our subsidiaries, it will materially and adversely affect the amount of dividends, if any, we may pay to our shareholders and ADS holders. We may be deemed a PRC resident enterprise under the CIT Law and be subject to the PRC taxation on our worldwide income. The CIT Law also provides that enterprises established outside of China whose “de facto management bodies” are located in China are considered “resident enterprises” and are generally subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate as to their worldwide income. Under the implementation regulations for the CIT Law issued by the PRC State Council, “de facto management body” is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and treasury, and acquisition and disposition of properties and other assets of an enterprise. If we are treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes, we will be subject to PRC tax on our worldwide income at the 25% uniform tax rate, which could have an impact on our effective tax rate and an adverse effect on our net income and results of operations, although dividends distributed from our PRC subsidiaries to us could be exempt from Chinese dividend withholding tax, since such income is exempted under the new CIT Law to a PRC resident recipient. Dividends payable by us to our foreign investors and gain on the sale of our ADSs or ordinary shares may become subject to taxes under PRC tax laws. Under the CIT Law and implementation regulations issued by the State Council, PRC income tax at the rate of 10% is applicable to dividends payable to investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” which do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC, or which have such establishment or place of business but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business, to the extent such dividends have their sources within the PRC. Similarly, any gain realized on the transfer of ADSs or shares by such investors is also subject to 10% PRC income tax if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC. If we are considered a PRC “resident enterprise,” it is unclear whether dividends we pay with respect to our ordinary shares or ADSs, or the gain you may realize from the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, would be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC and be subject to PRC tax. If we are required under the CIT Law to withhold PRC income tax on dividends payable to our non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, the value of your investment in our ordinary shares or ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. We face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of avian flu, SARS or another epidemic or outbreak. China reported a number of cases of SARS in April 2004. In 2005 and 2006, there have been reports on 25 Table of Contents the occurrences of avian flu in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases. Any prolonged recurrence of avian flu, SARS or other adverse public health developments in China may have a material adverse effect on our business operations. These could include our ability to travel or ship our products outside China, as well as temporary closure of our manufacturing facilities. Such closures or travel or shipment restrictions would severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our results of operations. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future outbreak of avian flu, SARS or any other epidemic. Recent PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident shareholders to personal liability and limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us, or otherwise adversely affect us. In October 2005, the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, issued a circular concerning foreign exchange regulations on investments by PRC residents in China through special purpose companies incorporated overseas, or Circular No. 75, and the implementation procedures of such regulations have been further clarified by circular No. 106 issued by the Department of General Affairs of SAFE on May 29, 2007. Circular No. 75 states that, if PRC residents use assets or equity interests in their domestic entities as capital contribution to establish offshore companies or inject assets or equity interests of their PRC entities into offshore companies to raise capital overseas, such PRC residents must register with local SAFE branches with respect to their overseas investments in offshore companies and must also file amendments to their registrations if their offshore companies experience material events, such as changes in share capital, share transfer, mergers and acquisitions, spin-off transactions or use of assets in China to guarantee offshore obligations. Our shareholders who are PRC residents as determined by the relevant branch of SAFE have registered with the relevant branch of SAFE with respect to their investments in us and our acquisition of their interests in JA Hebei as currently required. However, we cannot provide any assurances that their existing registrations have fully complied with, and they will make necessary amendments to their registration to fully comply with, all applicable registrations or approvals required by these SAFE circulars. The failure or inability of our PRC resident shareholders to comply with the registration procedures set forth therein may subject these PRC resident shareholders to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our cross-border investment activities, or limit our PRC subsidiary’ ability to distribute dividends to our company. As it is uncertain how SAFE will interpret or implement these circulars, we cannot predict how this circular and other SAFE circulars will affect our business operations or future strategies. For example, we may be subject to more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign currency-denominated borrowings, which may adversely affect our business and prospects. PRC rules on mergers and acquisitions may subject us to sanctions, fines and other penalties and affect our future business growth through acquisition of complementary business. On August 8, 2006, six PRC government and regulatory authorities, including the MOFCOM and the Chinese Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, promulgated a rule entitled “Provisions regarding Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors,” or the New M&A Rule, which became effective on September 8, 2006. The New M&A Rule, among other things, requires that an offshore specific purpose vehicle, or SPV, formed for the listing purpose through acquisition of PRC domestic entity and controlled by PRC residents should obtain approval from the CSRC prior to publicly listing its securities on an overseas stock market. Based on consultation with the International Department of the CSRC regarding its interpretation of the New M&A Rule, our PRC counsel, Tian Yuan Law Firm, advised us that the CSRC approval was not required for our initial public offering and the listing of our ADSs on The Nasdaq Global Market and this offering. However, we cannot assure you that the relevant PRC governmental agencies, including MOFCOM and other applicable departments of the CSRC, would reach the same conclusion as our 26 Table of Contents PRC counsel. If the CSRC or other PRC regulatory body subsequently determines that the CSRC’s approval was required for our initial and follow-on offerings and the listing of our ADSs on the Nasdaq Global Market, we may face sanctions by the CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies. In such event, these regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, delay or restrict the repatriation of the proceeds from our public offering into the PRC, or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our ADSs. The New M&A Rule also established additional procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that MOFCOM be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise. In the future, we may grow our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses, although we do not have any plans to do so at this time. Complying with the requirements of the New M&A Rule to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from MOFCOM, may delay or inhibit the completion of such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. All employee participants in our existing stock option plans who are PRC citizens may be required to register with SAFE. We may also face regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our ability to adopt additional option plans for our directors and employees under PRC law. To implement the Administrative Rule on Foreign Exchange Matters of Individuals and its related Implementing Rule, on April 6, 2007, the department of general administration affairs of SAFE issued the Operating Procedures for Administration of Domestic Individuals Participating in the Employee Stock Option Plan or Stock Option Plan of An Overseas Listed Company, or Circular No. 78. For any employee stock incentive plans which are so covered and are adopted by an overseas listed company, Circular No. 78 requires the employee participants who are PRC citizens to register their participation in the plan with SAFE or its local branch and report to such agency within ten days of the beginning of each quarter after their initial registration. Registration should be made by July 5, 2007 if the employee participated in such plan prior to April 6, 2007. In addition, Circular No. 78 also requires the employee participants who are PRC citizens to follow a series of requirements on making necessary applications for foreign exchange purchase quota, opening special bank account and filings with SAFE or its local branch before they exercise their stock option. Circular No. 78 has not yet been made publicly available or formally promulgated by SAFE, but SAFE has begun enforcing its provisions. Nonetheless, it is not predictable whether it will continue to enforce this circular or adopt additional or different requirements with respect to equity compensation plans or incentive plans. If it is determined that our employee stock option plan is subject to Circular 78, failure to comply with such provisions may subject us and the participants of our employee stock option plan who are PRC citizens to obstacles in converting benefits received under such plan into Renminbi, as well as fines and legal sanctions, and prevent us from further granting options under our employee stock incentive plan to our employees, which could adversely affect our business operations. To help mitigate this risk, we have registered our 2006 stock incentive plan with Hebei Provincial Administration of Foreign Exchange in accordance with Circular No. 78 and obtained its approval in February 2008. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares and ADSs The market price for our ADSs has been volatile. The market price for our ADSs has been and may continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. From the initial listing of our ADSs on the Nasdaq Global Market on February 7, 2007 to February 7, 2008, the closing prices of our ADSs have ranged from US$16.30 to US$75.43 per ADS. Then from the day after the date of our 3-for-1 ADS split (February 7, 2008) to the date of this annual report, the closing 27 Table of Contents prices of our ADSs have ranged from US$12.39 to US$25.75 per ADS. See “Item 14. Material Modifications to the Rights of Security Holders and Use of Proceeds — A. Material Modifications to the Rights of Securities Holders.” The last reported trading price of our ADSs on May 6, 2008 was US$23.48 per ADS. The price of our ADSs may continue to fluctuate in response to factors including the following: • announcements of technological or competitive developments; • regulatory developments in our target markets affecting us, our customers, our potential customers or our competitors; • announcements regarding patent litigation or the issuance of patents to us or our competitors; • announcements of studies and reports relating to the conversion efficiencies of our products or those of our competitors; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other photovoltaic technology companies; • addition or departure of our executive officers and key research personnel; • fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and RMB; • release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares or ADSs; and • sales or perceived sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. Substantial future sales or perceived sales of our ADSs in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Sales of our ADSs in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. As of the date of this annual report, we have 154,355,500 ordinary shares outstanding, including ordinary shares represented by ADSs. All ADSs are freely transferable without restriction or additional registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, except to the extent acquired by persons deemed to be our “affiliates.” The remaining ordinary shares outstanding will be available for sale, in the case of the ordinary shares that certain option holders will receive when they exercise their share options subject to volume and other restrictions as applicable under Rule 144 and Rule 701 under the Securities Act. To the extent shares are sold into the market, the market price of our ADSs could decline. Our third amended and restated articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could have a material adverse effect on the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Our third amended and restated articles of association limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our Board of Directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix their designations, powers, preferences, privileges, and relative participating, optional or special rights and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may 28 Table of Contents be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares, in the form of ADS or otherwise. Preferred shares could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. If our Board of Directors decides to issue preferred shares, the price of our ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. Holders of ADSs have fewer rights than shareholders and must act through the depositary to exercise those rights. Holders of ADSs do not have the same rights of our shareholders and may only exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under our third amended and restated articles of association, the minimum notice period required to convene a general meeting will be ten days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw your ordinary shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your ADSs. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ADSs are not voted as you requested. In addition, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to call a shareholder meeting. You may be subject to limitations on transfers of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. ADS holders’ right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings and you may not receive cash dividends if it is impractical to make them available to you. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary bank will not make rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act, or exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. In addition, the depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute such property and you will not receive such distribution. 29 Table of Contents We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than that under U.S. law, you may have less protection for your shareholder rights than you would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our third amended and restated articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as that from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by our management, our Board of Directors or our controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a U.S. public company. You may have difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us. We are a Cayman Islands company and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. Substantially all of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands or the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. In addition, it is uncertain whether such Cayman Islands or PRC courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands or the PRC against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. 