D. RISK FACTORS We believe that the occurrence of any one or some combination of the following factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to our Business We operate in a heavily regulated industry, which can harm our results of operations. In recent years, regulation in Israel has materially adversely affected our results. A substantial part of our operations is subject to the Israeli Communications Law, 1982, the Israeli Wireless Telegraph Ordinance (New Version), 1972, the regulations promulgated thereunder and the licenses for the provision of different telecommunications services that we received from the Ministry of Communications in accordance with the Communications Law. The interpretation and implementation of the Communications Law, Wireless Telegraph Ordinance and regulations and the provisions of our general licenses, as well as our other licenses, are not certain and subject to change, and disagreements have arisen and may arise in the future between the Ministry of Communications, or MOC, and us. The Communications Law and regulations thereunder grant the Ministry of Communications extensive regulatory and supervisory authority with regard to our activities, as well as the authority to impose substantial sanctions in the event of a breach of our licenses or the applicable laws and regulations. In 2013, the MOC substantially increased its supervision activities and imposed monetary sanctions, including on us (in immaterial sums).Substantial sanctions would negatively affect our results of operations and reputation. Further, in the event that we materially violate the terms of our licenses, the Ministry of Communications has the authority to revoke them. Our operations are subject to regulatory and supervisory authority of other Israeli regulators which also includes the authority to impose criminal and administrative sanctions against us including, among others, the Ministry of Environmental Protection; the Antitrust Authority; the Ministry of Justice and the Law, Information and Technology Authority at the Ministry of Justice - in charge of issues such as data bases and privacy protection; the Ministry of Economy (including the Fair Trade Authority) in charge of labor and consumer protection; the Israeli Securities Authority; and the Israeli Securities Law Administrative Enforcement Committee, which recently commenced operating and has imposed substantial monetary sanctions. We have witnessed increased activity by some of these regulators in recent years. We expect this trend to continue. Substantial sanctions or criminal charges by any of these regulators or others, would negatively affect our results of operations and our reputation. Increased supervision and regulation of our activities could limit our freedom to conduct our business and harm our results of operations. Our general cellular license is valid until February 2022. It may be extended for additional six-year periods upon our request to the Ministry of Communications and 9 Table of Contents confirmation from the Ministry of Communications that we have complied with the provisions of our license and the applicable law, have continuously invested in the improvement of our service and network and have demonstrated the ability to do so in the future. Netvision's Internet Service Provider, or ISP, license and International Long Distance, or ILD, license, are valid until April 2017 and May 2025, respectively and may be extended for additional five and ten year periods, respectively, on terms similar to those provided in our cellular license. Our other licenses are also limited in time. Our licenses may not be extended when necessary, or, if extended, the extensions may be granted on terms that are not favorable to us. In addition, the Ministry of Communications has modified and may modify our licenses without our consent and in a manner that could limit our freedom to conduct our business and harm our results of operations. Possible changes to our licenses and legislation which would require us to change our pricing plans and information systems frequently or on a timetable we cannot meet, can increase the risk of noncompliance with our licenses or violation of such legislation and our exposure to lawsuits and regulatory sanctions. Further, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by new legislation and decisions by our regulators or the courts that: · do not approve the network and site sharing agreements we entered in December 2013 with Pelephone communications Ltd., or Pelephone, and Golan Telecom Ltd., or Golan, our competitors, or approve them subject to conditions that are adverse to us, as it would prevent or significantly undermine the material savings in investments and expenditures that would be available to us if the agreements are approved; more so if the regulators do approve a similar agreement between Partner Communications Ltd., or Partner and Hot Mobile Ltd., or Hot Mobile, additional competitors, entered November 2013, or similar agreement among our competitors, or provide such approval on an earlier date than for our agreements or under more lenient terms than our agreement, as such decisions will put us in a disadvantage vis-à-vis our competitors and will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For additional details, see "- We face intense competition in all aspects of our business" and "We may be adversely affected by the significant technological and other changes in the cellular communications industry; network sharing agreements, if approved, may have material adverse effects on our business" below and "Item 4. Information on The Company – B. Business Overview – Network and Technology - Network and Cell Sites Sharing Agreements" and "-Competition"; · reduce tariffs, or otherwise intervene in the pricing policies for our products and services, including by: intervening in pricing of bundles of services, roaming services, or prohibiting subscription or other fees for certain services. For example, the amendment to the Communications Law in 2013 prohibiting cellular operators from linking a cellular services transaction and handset purchase transaction, including by way of offering airtime rebates or refunds for the handsets, has adversely affected our end-user equipment revenues and our results of operations; and the MOC's November 2013 instruction to discontinue any specific rebates and refunds to customers transferring from other cellular operators, has and is expected to continue to adversely affect our sales and our results of operations. See "Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview – Government Regulations – Tariff Supervision" and 10 Table of Contents "Item 4. Information on The Company – B. Business Overview – Netvision" for additional details; · set unfavorable national roaming tariffs or Mobile Virtual Network Operator, or MVNO, hosting tariffs, or require us to provide wholesale services on our landline infrastructure or provide and purchase such services at unfavorable tariffs or reduced interconnect tariffs so that they do not represent cost plus reasonable profit. In 2013, the Communications Law was amended to authorize the Minister of Communications to give instructions and to set interconnect tariffs and usage of another operator's network rates, based on several alternative methods of calculation, including but not limited to, the previous method consisting of cost plus reasonable profit. Further, in the MOC's hearings as to the wholesale landline market the MOC notes it is reviewing applying certain wholesale obligations on all landline operators, including us. See "Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview - "Government Regulations - Tariff Supervision", "-Additional UMTS Operators", and "– Landline"; · award new competitors certain benefits and leniencies not available to existing cellular operators, including through requiring us to allow usage of our network by such competitors and on unfavorable terms to us, waiving or easing the requirement to establish a network set in the licenses of mobile network operators, or MNOs; or by limiting our ability to compete, including by limiting our ability to develop our network or preferring new and/or small competitors in the allocation of frequencies, including those designated to the 4G of cellular services. The entry of additional competitors, specifically the launch of two new UMTS operators (using national roaming) in May 2012, had a material adverse effect on our results of operations and is expected to continue to adversely affect our results of operations in the future. See "Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview - Competition", "-Government Regulations – Mobile Virtual Network Operators" and "- Additional UMTS Operators" for additional details; · impose new safety or health-related requirements; · impose additional restrictions or requirements with respect to the construction and operation of cell sites or the networks, including in relation to the deployment of a 4G network and site sharing; · impose restrictions on the provision of services or products we currently provide or regulate or otherwise intervene with the terms under which we advertise and market them and provide them to our subscribers, including in respect of existing agreements. For example, in mid- 2013 our license was amended in regards to portability completion process, effectively adversely affecting our sales and retention capabilities. In December 2013, our cellular license was amended so as to place restrictions on the provision of roaming services, including default blockage of the data roaming service to be opened only upon the customer's request, automatic blockage of data roaming services (other than customers that have a data plan) to be reopened again upon such request, each time the customer reaches a certain usage threshold, and certain 11 Table of Contents notification procedures, in effect as of March 2014. Such change is expected to have an adverse effect on our roaming services and results of operations; · limit or otherwise intervene with the services or products that we may sell; · set higher service standards or costly requirements relating to the service we provide our customers; · impose the laws and regulations applicable to charge cards on the clearing services we provide to third party providers, including liability for misuse and liability imposed on internet online and telephonic transactions. The Israeli Attorney General has opined before two separate tribunals (which have not yet ruled on the matter) that such legislation applies to the clearing services we provide to our third party providers; · impose a stricter policy with respect to privacy protection, such as with regard to data protection, collection, amelioration or usage of data for marketing activities. An initial proposal of the Information and Technology Authority regarding cellular operators, received in March 2012, proposes imposing strict limitations on such collection and usage, including the requirement to receive a positive consent of the customer to do so (other than with regards to basic data), and the Israeli Attorney General has filed a request with the Israeli court of uniform contracts to apply such stricter policy to us; · impose structural or operational separation between our and Netvision's operations (partial or full) or between the different services within each company or otherwise limit our ability to offer bundles of services; or · set unfavorable regulation regarding international communications services and the landline wholesale market. See "Item 4. Information on The Company – B. Business Overview –Government Regulations – Landline". See “Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview – Government Regulations ― Our Principal License” and “- Other Licenses”. If we fail to compensate for lost revenues, increased expenses (objectively or in comparison to our competitors) or additional investments resulting from past or future legislative or regulatory changes with alternative sources of income or otherwise, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We face intense competition in all aspects of our business. The Israeli cellular telephone market is highly competitive. We compete for subscribers with four other mobile network operators, or MNOs, and five MVNO operators. While we enjoy the largest subscriber market share, estimated to be 30.6% as of December 31, 2013, two of our competitors, Partner and Pelephone, enjoy estimated market shares of 29.1% and 26.3% respectively, with Hot Mobile estimated to have a market share of 8%, Golan estimated to have a market share of 4.1% and the MVNO operators together, with an estimated market share of approximately 1.9%. The competition in the cellular market increased over the last years. In 2011 Regulatory and other changes contributed to the intensified competition and increased price erosion, including the reduction of early termination fees in plans which include a commitment to a predefined period, or Early 12 Table of Contents Termination Fees, and the formation of communications groups. The current competitive pressure in the Israeli cellular market results primarily from the entry into the market of additional competitors, specifically the launch of two new UMTS operators in May 2012 - Hot Mobile and Golan, using national roaming on Pelephone's and our networks (respectively) and aiming to win market share by introducing packages which included unlimited usage of certain services, or Unlimited Packages, at significantly lower tariffs than market level at that time. Given the highly penetrated state of the market, this has further increased the already intense competition characterizing the Israeli cellular market before their entry, substantially accelerated price erosion, materially increased churn rate, increased subscriber acquisition and retention costs due to materially increased gross recruitment of subscribers and led to a material decrease in revenues and profitability for us and other MNOs. The intensified competition led to the offering of bundles of services and Unlimited Packages, at lower average revenue per user, or ARPU, by all competitors, mainly by aggressive offers for a short term and as of 2013 year end, for long terms as well. The price differentiation between the incumbent and new competitors has eroded. The current level of competition is expected to continue despite Hot-Mobile and Golan obtaining the market share necessary for them to retrieve the substantial bank guarantees they previously provided to the MOC. In addition, regulatory changes leading to the entry of additional competitors to the handset market, increased competition in that market significantly and resulted in a decrease in the sale of handsets by us. See also “Item 4. Information on the Company - B. Business Overview" under “The Telecommunications Industry in Israel”, "Competition", "Government Regulations – Mobile Virtual Network Operators" and "Additional UMTS Operators". Should these trends continue to characterize the communications market they shall continue to affect the level of competition and our results of operations. Moreover, should any of them intensify or should any of the following developments materialize in our market, the level of competition may increase even further and may result in a further increase in the churn rate, loss of market share, increased subscriber acquisition and retention costs, further price erosion and increased costs (specifically data related) and ultimately reduced profitability for us: · the approval and execution of a network sharing agreement between our competitors, more so if not coupled with an approval and execution of similar agreements by us, as it will provide our competitors sharing a network with a significant competitive advantage given the material savings in expenditures and investments (mainly in the passive sharing of cell sites) that can be achieved by such sharing of networks which would materially adversely affect our ability to compete and may also lead to further aggravation of the competition. In November 2013, Partner and Hot Mobile announced a network sharing agreement and in December 2013, we, Pelephone and Golan announced network and cell site sharing agreements, all subject to approvals by the Israeli regulators, including the Antitrust Commissionaire. In February 2014, Partner announced it has commenced deployment of a 4G network. For details regarding the sharing agreements see "Item 4. Information on The Company – B. Business Overview – Network and Technology - Network and Cell Sites Sharing Agreements"; · tariffs maintained at their current level or decreasing even further, more so if network sharing agreement are approved which will allow MNOs, and specifically Hot Mobile and Golan (who will no longer have to build their own network), to direct the extensive savings such agreements will afford into further competition and to support or decrease further the current low price 13 Table of Contents levels. The launch of Hot Mobile and Golan's UMTS operation in May 2012, without having to first invest in building their own network allowed them to offer prices significantly lower than market level at that time, and caused a substantial decrease of prices made by all competitors, including us, followed by more aggressive offers, including even lower tariffs and free of charge Unlimited Packages for limited periods of time, which were matched by other operators, resulting in an erosion of the price level differentiation between incumbent and new competitors . This has led to a materially increased churn rate, price erosion (including due to a transfer of prepaid customers to postpaid pricing plans) and loss of revenues and profitability to us. Moreover, having reached the market share in the private sector which allows them to reduce their license fee commitment (of approximately NIS 705 and 360 million, respectively) to an immaterial amount and retrieve the bank guarantee guaranteeing that commitment, the extensive savings associated with network sharing, if approved, would allow Hot Telecom and Golan to extend their efforts into the business market as well and increase the level of competition in that sector as well. Furthermore, reduced tariffs for hosting services (as detailed below) would allow the new competitors to further support the intense competition and offer the current or lower tariffs to our customers. If tariffs remain at their current level or continue to decrease or if services continue to be offered free of charge, this could result in further loss of market share and loss of revenues and profitability. See "Item 4. Information on The Company –B. Business Overview – Competition" for additional details; · increased competition in the hosting services market, as it shall result in the loss or decreased revenues for us. If our sharing agreements are not approved, Golan may choose to purchase (subject to our national roaming agreement conditions) future national roaming services elsewhere or engage in a network sharing agreement with another operator, resulting in the loss of revenues from national roaming services to us. For details regarding the sharing agreements see "Item 4. Information on The Company – A. History And Development Of The Company - Our History - Strategic network sharing agreements in 2013" and "- B. Business Overview – Network and Technology - Network and Cell Sites Sharing Agreements". On the contrary, network sharing will result in substantial lower revenues for us from Golan for our 2G and 3G network sharing in comparison to our national roaming agreement and will further allow Hot Telecom and Golan to offer 4G hosting services to MVNOs, whereas presently, as they rely on national roaming on Pelephone's and our networks, they do not offer hosting services. Golan's reduced expenses and additional MNOs offering hosting services may result in increased competition . Increased competition in the hosting services market may occur simply as a result of Hot Mobile leaving Pelephone - its current provider of national roaming – and collaborating with Partner, which led to Alon Cellular changing its host (from Partner to Pelephone) and may instigate further changes in the hosting market; · annulment or further relaxation of the structural separation imposed on each of the Bezeq and Hot groups (Bezeq being the incumbent landline operator and Hot the incumbent multichannel television provider, both monopolies in their incumbent market and the only groups owning full landline infrastructure in Israel and offering internet infrastructure services to ISP operators, as well 14 Table of Contents as to end-users), or the approval of mergers between Bezeq and its subsidiaries and Hot and its subsidiaries, more so if not coupled with an effective wholesale landline market, in which Bezeq and Hot cannot favor their own subsidiaries or impede our ability to compete against them, as it will provide these groups a competitive advantage in the sale of bundles of services, including cellular services, and allow them to make more competitive offers than the ones we will be able to make, for example, by cross subsidizing with other services in which they have the capacity to monopolize the market, by providing us inferior services than those provided to their subsidiaries, or at higher prices, which may result in a loss of market share by us in the different communications markets in which we operate, including the cellular market. The formation of communications groups in Israel with the regulatory changes already relaxing the structural separation imposed on each of the Bezeq and Hot groups allowed each of the groups to offer a bundle of services. With the competitive focus shifting from individual services to services to families, our dependence on the formation of an effective landline wholesale market, to allow us to include television and internet infrastructure in our offer and be competitive, has been accentuated. A policy paper published by the Ministry of Communications in relation to the wholesale market of landline services in Israel, called for the annulment of certain structural limitations currently imposed on the Bezeq and Hot groups (and the consideration of annulling or relaxing others) after an agreement regarding a landline wholesale market is executed between Bezeq or Hot and another operator which has a significant market share, as well as the replacement of Bezeq's regulated fixed tariffs with maximum tariffs. As negotiations failed, (although Partner had reached some understandings with Bezeq), we are awaiting the MOC's decision as to wholesale prices (a hearing to that effect was published by the MOC in January 2014). A wholesale market will facilitate the entrance of new competitors to the landline market and may trigger further escalation in the competition in other markets in which we operate, including the cellular market. Further, a hearing published by the MOC in October 2013, regarding a change to the ILD services Regulation, proposes, among others, to annul the current limitation preventing landline and cellular operators to provide ILD services themselves (rather than through a separate corporation), which if adopted and applied to the Bezeq and Hot groups as well, will result in the annulment of the structural limitations currently imposed on them, in relation to the ILD services, even before a landline wholesale market is created. See "Item 4. Information on The Company –B. Business Overview –Nevision - Telephony Business – Regulation" for additional details. Further, in November 2013, the Israeli Antitrust Commissionaire published a draft of the terms under which it is considering approving a merger between Bezeq and Yes, Bezeq's subsidiary providing multichannel pay-TV, for the public's comments. The annulment of structural limitations will allow Bezeq and Hot to offer bundles of services, including cellular services, without limitation and may allow them to take advantage of their nationwide presence to market and sell attractive offers. Bundle offerings have accelerated and are expected to accelerate price erosion in each of the services included. With each of the groups having an interest not to erode the prices of its core business, but rather that of its competitors, such erosion is especially expected in those services which are not the core services of the Bezeq and Hot groups. Moreover, should we 15 Table of Contents decide to enter the television market, such entry may trigger increased competitive pressure by Hot, the monopoly in this market, and possibly Bezeq, on our core business, aiming at preventing our efforts to compete with them at the television and landline markets. See "Item 4. Information on The Company –B. Business Overview – The Communications Market in Israel - Communications Groups – Structural Separation", "-Competition", "-Government Regulations – Landline", "-Nevision - ISP Business - Competition" and "-Nevision - Telephony Business – Competition" for additional details; and · continued increased competition in the handsets market. Regulatory changes encouraging the entry of additional players to this market, coupled with the prohibition on any linkage between a cellular services transaction and handsets purchase transaction and the prohibition on the offering of airtime rebates or refunds for the handsets as of January 1, 2013, which reduced further our contact points and therefore sale opportunities with our customers as well as reduced their connection to us, resulted in increased competition and substantially reduced handset sales for us. This, together with the increased handset purchases elsewhere and additional distributors for the Apple handsets which have dominated the handset sales in recent years in Israel in the last year, may result in decreased handset sales, and even an inability to meet our contractual obligations to purchase a minimal quantity of handsets from Apple, decreased revenues and profitability to us, and may also increase churn and adversely affect our cellular services results of operations. See "Item 4. Information on The Company –B. Business Overview – Competition" for additional details. We may not be able to obtain permits to construct and operate cell sites. We depend on our network of cell sites to maintain and enhance network coverage for our subscribers. In addition, where necessary, we provide certain subscribers with bi-directional amplifiers, also known as “repeaters,” to remedy weak signal reception in indoor locations. Some of these repeaters are located outdoors on rooftops. We also deploy and operate microwave sites as part of our transmission network. The construction and operation of these various facilities are highly regulated and require us to obtain various consents and permits. See “Item 4.B – Business Overview - Government Regulations - Permits for Cell Site Construction” for additional details. We have experienced difficulties in obtaining some of these consents and permits, particularly in obtaining building permits for cell sites from local planning and building authorities. As of December 31, 2013, we operated a small portion of our cell sites without building permits or applicable exemptions. Although we are in the process of seeking to obtain building permits or to modify our cell sites in order to satisfy applicable exemptions, we may not be able to obtain all the necessary permits or make the necessary modifications. Approximately 30.8% of our cell sites operate without building permits in reliance on an exemption from the requirement to obtain a building permit, mainly for radio access devices. Our reliance on the exemption for radio access devices had been challenged and is currently awaiting ruling by the Israeli Supreme Court. Under an interim order issued by the Supreme Court in September 2010, we are unable to further construct radio access devices in cellular networks in reliance on the exemption, until regulations limiting our reliance on the 16 Table of Contents exemption are enacted or a different decision by the court is made. A further decision of the Supreme Court in February 2011, states that the order will not apply to the replacement of existing radio access devices under certain conditions. As of September 2011, the interim order was relaxed to allow two new UMTS operators, Hot Mobile (previously Mirs Communications Ltd. or Mirs) and Golan, to construct radio access devices in reliance on the exemption . Our application to relax the interim order against us was denied. The Attorney General's opinion, submitted in December 2013 to the court supports a permanent order to prevent us from constructing radio access devices in cellular networks in reliance on the exemption, until regulations limiting our reliance on the exemption are enacted but allowing us to replace radio access devices under certain conditions and allowing Hot mobile and Golan to continue to construct radio access devices in reliance on the exemption, until July 2014. We are awaiting the Court's decision. Additionally, in November 2008, the District Court of Central Region, in its capacity as court of appeals, ruled that the exemption does not apply to radio access devices, if the rooftop, on which those devices are located, is at the same level as a residence or other building that is regularly frequented by people. Following the Attorney General's conclusion that the application of the exemption does not balance properly the different interests involved and therefore cannot continue unchanged, the Israeli Minister of Interior Affairs submitted draft regulations for approval by the Economy Committee of the Israeli Parliament in March 2010. The draft regulations include significant limitations on the ability to construct radio access devices based on the exemption, which will render the construction of radio access devices based on the exemption practically impossible. In addition, we may be operating a significant number of our cell sites in a manner that is not fully compatible with the building permits issued for these cell sites which may, in some cases, also constitute grounds for termination of our lease agreements for those sites or claims for breach of such agreements. Our rooftop microwave sites and repeaters operate in reliance upon an exemption from the requirement to obtain a building permit. Substantially all of our outdoor microwave sites are rooftops. It is unclear whether other types of repeaters require a building permit. An annulment of or inability to rely on or substantial limitation of the exemption could adversely affect our existing networks and networks build-out, particularly given the rapidly growing demand for data traffic on our network (including as a result of our 2G and 3G sharing agreement, if approved), specifically in urban areas, and the refusal by some local planning and building authorities to grant due permits where required. This could have a negative impact on our ability to obtain environmental permits for these sites, and could negatively affect our ability to continue to market our products and services effectively and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. See “Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview - Government Regulations— Permits for Cell Site Construction" for additional details regarding the exemption. Operation of a cell site or other facility without a building permit or not in accordance with the permit or other legal requirements may result in the issuance of a demolition order for the cell site or other facility or the bringing of criminal charges against us and our officers and directors. Certain of our cell sites have been subject to demolition orders. In addition, criminal charges have been brought against us and our officers and directors in connection with cell sites that were alleged to have been constructed or used without the required permits 17 Table of Contents or not in accordance with the permits granted. As of December 31, 2013, 8 criminal and administrative proceedings were pending; a demolition order has been granted with respect to two cell sites while the remaining six proceedings are pending further litigation. Pursuant to the Israeli Non-Ionizing Radiation Law, 2006, the granting or renewal of an operating permit by the Commissioner of Environmental Radiation at the Ministry of Environmental Protection of Israel, or the Commissioner, for a cell site or other facility is subject to the receipt of a building permit or the facility being exempt from the requirement to obtain a building permit. Should we fail to obtain building permits for our cell sites or other facilities, including in the event that our reliance upon an exemption from the requirement to obtain building permits for these cell sites and other facilities is found invalid, the Commissioner will not grant or renew our operating permits for those cell sites and other facilities. Since October 2007, the Commissioner has taken the position that he will not grant or renew operating permits to radio access devices where the local planning and building committee’s engineer objected to our reliance upon the said exemption for radio access devices. For reasons not related to radiation hazards, but due to building and planning issues we have received partial environmental permits for single cell sites. Operating a cell site or a facility without an operating permit could subject us and our officers and directors to criminal, administrative and civil liability. The Non-Ionizing Radiation Law further grants the Commissioner authority to issue eviction orders if a cell site or other facility operates in conflict with its permit, and it imposes criminal sanctions on a company and its directors and officers for violations of the law. Failure to comply with the Non-Ionizing Radiation Law or the terms of a permit can lead to revocation or suspension of the permit, as well as to withholding the grant of permits to additional cell sites of that operator. Should any of our officers or directors be found guilty of an offense, they may face monetary penalties and a term of imprisonment. Our cell sites may be the subject of demolition orders, we may be required to relocate cell sites to less favorable locations or stop operation of cell sites, which could negatively affect the extent, quality and capacity of our network coverage, all of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Certain proposed amendments to the Non-Ionizing Radiation Law and Regulations and the Planning and Building Law, propose setting additional restrictions in relation to the operation of cell sites and other facilities, such as setting larger distance requirements between cell sites locations and residences or certain institutions. If such changes are adopted, they will, among other things, limit our ability to construct new cell sites or, if applied to existing cell sites, to renew operating permits for many of our existing cell sites), adversely affect our existing networks and networks build out, specifically in urban areas, and could adversely affect our results of operations. See “Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview - Government Regulations - Permits for Cell Site Construction". In June 2010, proposed changed to the Israeli National Zoning Plan 36, or the Plan, which regulates cell site construction and operation, were approved by the Israeli National Council for Planning and Building and submitted for the approval of the Government of Israel. If the proposed changes, which would place additional restrictions on the construction 18 Table of Contents and operation of cell sites, are approved by the Israeli Government, they will harm our ability to construct new cell sites, make the process of obtaining building permits for the construction and operation of cell sites more cumbersome and costly, adversely affect our existing network, delay the future deployment of an advanced network, or negatively affect the extent, quality and capacity of our network coverage and our ability to continue to market our products and services effectively, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Several local planning and building authorities are claiming that Israeli cellular operators may not receive building permits, in reliance on the current Plan, for cell sites operating in frequencies not specifically detailed in the frequencies charts attached to the Plan. In a number of cases, these authorities have refused to provide a building permit for such new cell sites, arguing that the Plan does not apply to such cell sites and that building permits for such cell sites should be sought through other processes (which are longer and cumbersome), such as an application for extraordinary usage or under existing local specific zoning plans. Since June 2002, following the approval of the Plan, building permits for our cell sites (where required) have been issued in reliance on the Plan. The current proposed draft amendment to the Plan covers all new cell sites requiring a building permit, independently of the frequencies in which they operate. Most of our cell sites and many cell sites operated by other operators also operate in frequencies not specifically detailed in the Plan. If we are unable to obtain or rely on exemptions from obtaining or to renew building or other consents and permits for our existing cell sites or other facilities, we will be required to demolish or relocate these cell sites and facilities. Our inability to relocate sites or other facilities in a timely manner or to construct and operate new sites or other facilities (if we are unable to obtain the necessary consents and permits or rely on the exemption from the requirement to obtain a building permit), could adversely affect our existing network and our ability to continue to meet the growing demand, specifically for data traffic, result in the loss of subscribers, prevent us from meeting the network coverage and quality requirements contained in our license (which may lead to its revocation) and adversely impact our network build-out, all of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In July 2011, an inter-ministry team of the Ministries of Communications, Finance, Interior, Environmental Protection and the Anti-Trust Commissionaire, published its recommendations regarding cell site sharing. The recommendations include compulsory cell site sharing in the construction of new cell sites or modification of existing cell sites which require a building permit (the Ministry of Communications may exempt sharing for reasons related to technological or engineering difficulties), preference and leniencies to the new UMTS operators, and a reduction in number of the existing non shared cell sites. Unlike the site sharing we wish to implement under our network sharing agreement with Pelephone and Golan, which would be beneficial for us, these recommendations or similar recommendations, if enacted, may adversely affect our existing cellular network or network build-out, and thus our results of operations. For details regarding network and cell sites sharing agreements see, "Item 4. Information on The Company – B. Business Overview – Network and Technology - Network and Cell Sites Sharing Agreements". 19 Table of Contents We may be required to indemnify certain local planning and building committees in respect of claims against them. Under the Israeli Planning and Building Law, 1965, by approving a building plan, local planning and building committees may be required to compensate for depreciation of properties included in or neighboring the approved plan. In January 2006, the law was amended to require an applicant, as a precondition to obtaining a cell site construction permit from a planning and building committee, to provide a letter to the committee indemnifying it for possible depreciation claims. As of December 31, 2013, we had provided approximately 368 indemnification letters to local planning and building committees. Calls upon our indemnification letters may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may also decide to demolish or relocate existing cell sites to less favorable locations and to construct new cell sites in alternative, less suitable locations or not at all, due to the obligation to provide indemnification. As a result, our existing service may be impaired or the expansion of our network coverage could be limited. In addition, local planning and building committees have sought to join cellular operators, including us, as defendants in depreciation claims made against them even though indemnification letters were not provided. We have been joined as defendants in a small number of cases. In February 2007, the Israeli Minister of Interior Affairs extended the limitation period within which depreciation claims may be brought under the Israeli Planning and Building Law from three years from approval of a building plan, to the later of one year from receiving a building permit for a cell site under National Zoning Plan 36 and six months from the construction of a cell site. The Minister retains the general authority to extend such period further. This extension of the limitation period increases our potential exposure to depreciation claims. In addition, should the Planning and Building Law be construed or amended to allow a longer period of limitation for depreciation claims than the current limitation period set in that law, our potential exposure to depreciation claims would increase. Alleged health risks relating to non-ionizing radiation generated from cell sites and cellular telecommunications devices may harm our prospects. Handsets, accessories and various types of cell sites are known to be sources of non-ionizing radiation emissions and are the subject of a public debate and concern in Israel. While, to the best of our knowledge, the handsets that we market comply with the applicable legislation that relate to acceptable “specific absorption rate,” or SAR, levels, we rely on the SAR levels published by the manufacturers of these handsets and do not perform independent inspections of the SAR levels of these handsets. As the manufacturers’ approvals refer to a prototype handset, we have no information as to the actual level of SAR of the handsets throughout the lifecycle of the handsets, including in the case of handset repair. See also “Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview - Government Regulations - Handsets”. In July 2008, the Israeli Ministry of Health published recommendations to take precautionary measures when using cellular handsets, which has increased the concerns of the Israeli public. In May 2011, the International Agency for Research on Cancer, an agency of the World Health Organization, or WHO, issued a press release classifying radiofrequency electromagnetic fields as possibly carcinogenic to humans (Group 2B), based on an increased risk for glioma, a malignant type of brain cancer, associated with wireless phone use. In June 20 Table of Contents 2011, the WHO publication noted that to date, no adverse health effects have been established as being caused by mobile phone use and while an increased risk of brain tumors is not established, the increasing use of mobile phones and the lack of data for mobile phone use over time periods longer than 15 years warrant further research of mobile phone use and brain cancer risk, particularly given recent popular use by younger people with potentially longer periods of exposure. Several bills, aimed at increasing awareness of the possible risks of cellular phones usage, reducing usage thereof and introducing precautionary measures are awaiting deliberation by the Israeli Parliament. In January 2013, the Ministry of Science and Technology and the Ministry of Environmental Protection announced the establishment of a non-ionizing radiation information center that will provide information to the public, issue warnings and guidelines for reducing exposure to risks in general and specifically in regards to sensitive populations and perform and coordinate research in that regard. In March 2013, Partner has reportedly agreed to pay NIS 400 thousand to a customer claiming his cancer was caused by cellular phone usage (while disclaiming any responsibility). Health concerns regarding cell sites have caused us difficulties in obtaining permits for cell site construction and obtaining or renewing leases for cell sites resulted in unlawful sabotage of a small number of cell sites and prompted proposed legislation aimed at increasing the minimum distance permitted between cell sites and certain institutions. See " - We may not be able to obtain permits to construct and operate cell sites" above for additional details. In July 2009, the Ministries of Interior Affairs and Environmental Protection adopted the position that, with respect to radiation safety, cell sites constructed pursuant to a building permit are preferable to radio access devices and that utilizing a cellular network to provide advanced services that can be provided through a landline network is not justified in light of the preventive care principle set forth in the Israeli Non-Ionizing Radiation Law. Further, in May 2012, in response to a petition to hold a public debate regarding 4G service in Israel and prevent 4G spectrum allocation until such debate is held, the Ministries of Communications, Health and Environmental Protection took the position that 4G services would involve some increase in the level of non-ionizing radiation the public will be exposed to, and that in order to minimize such increase, 4G deployment should be based on current cell sites or additional outdoor and indoor small cell sites, and should use whenever possible wireline infrastructure so that data traffic shall be carried mostly through wirelines and not cellular infrastructure. The adoption of the inter-ministry team's recommendations, regarding cell site sharing (see " - We may not be able to obtain permits to construct and operate cell sites" above), is a precondition for the deployment of 4G infrastructure. The Ministry of Health further opined that in light of the preventive precaution principle and in order to reduce as much as possible the alleged health risks, 4G usages should be predefined and additional usage, where a landline alternative is available, should be conditioned on further discussion. If health concerns regarding non-ionizing radiation increase further, or if adverse findings in studies of non-ionizing radiation are published, non-ionizing radiation levels are found to be higher than the standards set for handsets and cell sites or additional requirements or limitations are imposed on the marketing of cellular products or services, we may be subject to health-related claims for substantial sums. Consumers may also be discouraged from using cellular handsets and regulators may impose additional restrictions on the construction and operation of cell sites or handset and accessories marketing and usage. As a result, we may experience increased difficulty in constructing and operating cell sites and obtaining leases for new cell site locations or renewing leases for existing locations, or be exposed to property depreciation claims; and we may lose revenues due to decreasing usage of our services and be subject to increased regulatory costs. We have not obtained insurance 21 Table of Contents for these potential claims. See note 30 to our consolidated financial statements for 2013, included elsewhere in this annual report for additional details on two purported class actions filed against us in that respect. An adverse outcome or settlement of any health-related litigation against us or any other provider of cellular services could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or prospects. The unionizing of our employees may prevent us from executing necessary organizational and personnel changes, result in increased costs or disruption to our operation. In September 2013, we recognized the Histadrut, an Israeli labor union, as the union representing the Company's and Netvision's employees and commenced negotiations regarding a collective employment agreement with the employees' representatives. As a result, our ability to execute organizational and personnel changes is more limited, cumbersome and lengthy and significant management attention, that would otherwise be available for our ongoing business, is directed at the collective employment agreement negotiations and other matters involving the unionization. Although to date, we have not suffered any work stoppages or other disruptions to our operation, an attempt to carry out a material organizational change, may trigger an adverse impact on our services or customer service, fail to be executed or be executed in a materially different way than planned, resulting in substantially lower savings than expected or requiring materially increased employment costs. In addition, a collective employment agreement reached at other companies, in recent years, resulted in a one-time substantial payment as well as an increase in annual employment costs for these companies. Inability to make organizational and personnel changes in due time or at all or under severe limitations, or cumbersome organizational procedures, as well as work stoppages or other disruption to our operations and limitations on management's discretion, may damage the efficiency and quality of our operations, and may lead to damage to our reputation, increased customer churn, loss of market share and reduced profitability. We could be subject to legal claims due to the inability of our information systems to fully support our pricing plans. In order to attract and retain the maximum number of subscribers in our highly competitive market, we design specific pricing plans to suit the various preferences of our types of subscribers such as individuals, families or businesses. We require sophisticated information systems to accurately record subscriber usage pursuant to the particular terms of each subscriber’s plan as well as accurate database management and operation of a very large number of pricing plans. From time to time, we have detected some discrepancies between certain pricing plans and the information processed by our internal information systems, such as applying an incorrect rebate or applying an incorrect tariff to a service resulting in a higher charge. We have invested substantial resources to refine and improve our information and control systems and ensure that our new pricing plans are appropriately processed by our information systems; we have also taken steps to remedy the identified discrepancies and have established reserves where the discrepancies are quantifiable. Despite our substantial investments, we may experience discrepancies in the future due to the multiplicity of our plans, the frequent changes to our licenses and relevant legislation governing our pricing plans and the scope of the processing tasks. Following our merger with Netvision and the offering of bundles of services of both companies, billing our customers involves information systems of both companies and increases the possibility of errors. While we are in the process of creating one billing and Customer Relation Management, or CRM, systems for both 22 Table of Contents companies, until such process is completed, there is a risk such discrepancies may occur. Further, while we invest substantial efforts in monitoring our employees and third-party distributors and dealers that market our services, it is possible that some of our employees, distributors or dealers may offer terms and make (or fail to make) representations to existing and prospective subscribers that do not fully conform to applicable law, our licenses or the terms of our pricing plans. As a result of these discrepancies, we may be subject to subscribers’ claims, including class action claims, and substantial sanctions for breach of our licenses or the applicable laws and regulations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations. Further, frequent and multiple changes to our general license and relevant legislation require ongoing changes to our operations, pricing plans and supporting information systems. Such changes increase the risk that our employees, distributors and dealers and our information systems will not fully support such changes. As of January 1, 2013, each discrepancy from the customer's pricing plan, remedied after the customer complained, shall award the customer with predefined damages in an insignificant amount, but may aggregate to substantial amounts if paid to numerous customers on multiple occasions. We are exposed to, and currently are engaged in, a variety of legal proceedings, including class action lawsuits. We provide services to millions of subscribers on a daily basis. As a result of the scope and magnitude of our operations, we are subject to the risk of a large number of lawsuits, including class action suits by consumers and consumer organizations, with respect to billing and other practices, such as customer care practices, marketing, including mass media marketing as well as sending commercial messages to customers, data collection and usage practices, offering practices of products and services, including third parties' products and services and practices related to the provision of such services to our customers, such as disclosure requirements. These actions are costly to defend and could result in significant judgments against us. Recent years were characterized by a substantial increase in the number of requests for certification of class actions filed and approved in Israel. In December 2011, a class action was decided against us (we appealed the decision and the Supreme Court annulled such judgment and approved a settlement). In November 2013, another request to certify a lawsuit filed against us as class action was approved. The number of purported class actions filed against us in the last three years amounts to over one third of all purported class actions filed against us since our inception, thereby increasing our legal exposure and our legal costs in defending against such suits, which as a result may materially and adversely affect our financial results. This trend is expected to continue, encouraged also by amendments to the Consumer Protection Law, stricter policy by regulators, amendments to the Communications Law such as regulating "spam" as well as the growing tendency of adopting comprehensive and burdensome regulation for the telecommunications market. This trend is also expected to include higher involvement of consumer organizations (whether by filing such suits, opposing settlement agreements and advocating the filing of lawsuits) and the Advocate General (opposing settlement agreements). Currently, we are engaged in dozens of purported class action suits as a defendant, many of which are for substantial amounts. Should these requests to certify lawsuits against us as class actions are approved and succeed, this may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. For a summary of certain material legal proceedings against us, see “Item 8 – Financial Information - A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information –Legal Proceedings”. We employ thousands of employees and are therefore subject to the risk of employee lawsuits, including class action suits by employees. 23 Table of Contents We are subject to the risk of intellectual property rights claims against us, including in relation to photographs, music, music-related or other content services we purchase from third party content providers. These claims may require us to initiate or defend protracted and costly litigation, regardless of the merits of these claims. If any of these claims succeed, we may be forced to pay damages or may be required to obtain licenses for the infringing product or service. If we cannot obtain all necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, we may be forced to stop using or selling the products and services. We rely on interconnecting telecommunications providers and could be adversely affected if these providers fail to provide these services without disruption and on a consistent basis. Our ability to provide commercially viable telephone services depends upon our ability to interconnect with the telecommunications networks of landline, cellular telephone and international operators in Israel in order to complete calls between our subscribers and parties on a landline or other cellular telephone network, as well as third parties abroad. All landline, cellular telephone and international operators in Israel are required to provide interconnection to, and not to discriminate against, any other licensed telecommunications operator in Israel. We have no control over the quality and timing of the investment and maintenance activities that are necessary for these entities to provide us with interconnection to their respective telecommunications networks. The implementation of number portability requires us to rely further on other providers, since our ability to implement number portability, provide our services and our basic ability to port numbers between operators are dependent on the manner of number portability implementation by interconnecting local operators. The failure of these or other telecommunications providers to provide reliable interconnections to us on a consistent basis could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our operations are dependent on complex technology and information systems. Our operations are dependent on a number of complex technological systems. The offering of bundles of services by us and Netvision, following our merger, increased the number of complex technological systems involved in providing service to our customers and in the billing process of our customers, resulting in some cases in cumbersome procedures, inefficient usage of resources and lack of uniformity. The occurrence of malfunctions in such complex and ever changing and expanding systems is inevitable. In addition, we are in the process of implementing one billing system and intend to implement one CRM system for both companies, which may result in larger expenditures than anticipated, require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for our ongoing business, or lead to unforeseen operating difficulties and malfunctions, which may lead to loss of revenues, legal claims and regulatory sanctions. We are further substantially expanding the amount of services we outsource in respect of our critical information systems, which could result in an adverse effect on the quality of our customer service, loss of internal knowledge and capabilities and substantially higher dependency on the supplier of such outsourced services, and which may lead to diversion of management attention. For additional details regarding our information systems agreements, see "Item 4. Information on the Company - B. Business Overview - Network and Technology - Information technology". For example, in December 2010, we suffered a major network malfunction, following which we decided to grant our subscribers a substantial refund and were also sued for substantial amounts of purported damages. A malfunction in any of our systems which severely impacts our ability to provide products and services to our customers 24 Table of Contents may result in loss of revenues to us, may adversely impact our brand perception and expose us to legal claims, all of which may adversely affect our results of operations. Our operations are dependent on various information systems. The unauthorized entry to or disruption of operation of these information systems, including due to cyber attacks, may result in damage to us and our customers. Such damages could include our inability to provide certain services without disruptions, if at all, our inability to bill for services rendered or loss of data to us and our customers, all of which may expose us to legal claims and liabilities. There are certain restrictions in our licenses relating to the ownership of our shares. Our cellular license restricts ownership of our ordinary shares and who can serve as our directors as follows: · our founding shareholder, Discount Investment Corporation Ltd., or DIC (or its transferee or transferees, if approved in advance by the Ministry of Communications as “founding shareholders”), must own at least 26% of each of our means of control; · Israeli citizens and residents among our founding shareholders (or their approved transferees) must own at least 20% of our outstanding share capital and each of our other means of control (DIC has agreed to comply with this requirement); · a majority of our directors must be Israeli citizens and residents; · at least 20% of our directors must be appointed by Israeli citizens and residents among our founding shareholders; and · we are required to have a committee of our Board of Directors that deals with matters relating to state security, which must be comprised of at least four directors (including an external director) having the requisite security clearance by Israel’s General Security Service. If these requirements are not complied with, we could be found to be in breach of our license and our license could be changed, suspended or revoked. For details regarding a creditors agreement affecting IDB and IDB Development, subject to, among others, the approval of the Ministry of Communications see " - We are a member of the IDB group of companies, one of Israel’s largest and most highly regulated business groups, which may limit our ability to expand our business, to acquire other businesses or raise debt. The effects on us of IDB's pending change of control at IDB are unclear" below. In addition, our license provides that, without the approval of the Ministry of Communications, no person may acquire or dispose of shares representing 10% or more of our outstanding share capital. Further, our directors and officers and any holder of ordinary shares representing 5% or more of our outstanding share capital may not own 5% or more of Bezeq or any of our competitors or serve as a director or officer of such a company, subject to certain exceptions which require the prior approval of the Ministry of Communications. 25 Table of Contents To ensure that an unauthorized acquisition of our shares would not jeopardize our license, our articles of association provide that any shares acquired without approval required under our license will not be entitled to voting rights. If our service is to be determined by the Israeli Government to be an “essential service”, the Prime Minister and the Ministry of Communications could impose additional limitations including a heightened requirement of Israeli ownership of our ordinary shares. Although our articles of association contain certain provisions that are aimed at reducing the risk that holdings or transfers of our ordinary shares will contravene our license, we cannot entirely control these and other matters required by our license, the violation of which could be a basis for suspending or revoking our license. Our other licenses and Netvision's licenses contain similar restrictions, with the Ministry of Communications' approval required for the transfer of shares representing 5% or more of our (or Netvision, as the case may be) outstanding share capital. See also “Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview – Government Regulations ― Our Principal License” and “-Other Licenses” and "Item 4. Information on The Company – B. Business Overview – Netvision". We may be adversely affected by the significant technological and other changes in the cellular communications industry; network sharing agreements, if approved, may have material adverse effects on our business. The telecommunications market is known for rapid and significant technological changes and requires ongoing investments in advanced technologies in order to remain competitive. In recent years we have witnessed a growing demand for Internet, content and data through advanced third generation cellular phones, smartphones, modems, tablets and other devices using cellular data that resulted in a rapid growth of data traffic on cellular networks and required cellular operators to upgrade their networks to accord such demand. Transfer of subscribers to Unlimited Packages of services, MVNO hosting services and national roaming on our network, have contributed to the substantially growing demand for data traffic on our network, as well as to voice and text messages. We estimate that data traffic will continue to grow in the future. To meet the growing demand for cellular data traffic, we would be required, among others, to continue our investment in upgrading both our cellular and our transmission network as well as to invest in 4G cellular technologies (Long Term Evolution, or LTE), which will allow larger capacity and higher data speed rates. An LTE network, would require additional substantial investments and the allocation of frequencies for an LTE network. Such allocation to us is not guaranteed when required or at all, including in light of: (1) prior preference given by the Ministry of Communications to new and small competitors in the allocation of additional UMTS frequencies at the September 2010 tender; (2) the fact that we have frequencies that could be used for an LTE network, should we be able to remove our 2G customers from these (although we cannot clear the minimal bandwidth required for an LTE network operation), whereas some operators do not; (3) the limited amount of available 1800MHz frequencies which cannot support separate LTE networks for all MNO operators; and (4) uncertainties relating to the government's position with respect to the terms and conditions of the provision of 4G services in Israel. There is no certainty as to the cost of frequencies, if and when allocated to us. The purchase of 4G frequencies may require us to raise additional debt in order to finance such purchase. Inability to receive additional frequencies in a timely manner to meet our needs or at all and specifically if LTE frequencies are allocated to our competitors and not to us or 26 Table of Contents allocated to us under less favorable terms than to our competitors (including the allocation of higher frequency bands which provide lower-quality coverage and would therefore require us to construct a substantially larger amount of cell sites) could impair our ability to compete and may require us to cease offering certain products and services we currently offer or change their terms and conditions or make substantial unplanned investments, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Under our network sharing agreements, the construction, management, operation and maintenance of our 2G, 3G and 4G radio networks will be carried out by a separate newly created entity, equally owned by us and Pelephone. Further, any strategic decisions regarding the LTE network will be made by a joined steering committee for us, Pelephone and Golan, by majority vote. This means that should these agreement be approved and executed, we will relinquish control over our radio network day to day operation, the employees performing such tasks shall no longer be committed to us and to our customers and decision making will no longer take only our interests and desires into consideration. Should we fail to secure continued quality operation and development of our networks by the separate entity which meets our needs and requests or fail to maintain sufficient knowledge and capabilities internally, this may result in an adverse effect on the quality of our service and coverage, our present or future competitive abilities and ultimately to our results of operations. Further, the savings expected from our network sharing agreements, if executed, may be preceded by increased levels of costs and investments, necessary for the unifying of cell sites and LTE deployment, which is expected to result in decreased profitability for the interim period. The network sharing agreements may also require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for our ongoing business. Further, such unification of cell sites may results in local degradation of service to our customers due to relocation of cell sites which may lead to dissatisfaction among such customers and require us to invest in local solutions, such as repeaters. In addition, should Golan customers use solely our 2G and 3G networks under the network sharing agreements, whereas presently they use both ours and Golan's cell sites, may result in adverse effect on our ability to continue to support the demand for cellular data traffic and market our products and services effectively, more so if we are unable to use Golan's cell sites. For additional details regarding the network sharing agreements see "Item 4. Information on The Company – A. History And Development Of The Company- Our History - Strategic network sharing agreements in 2013" and "- B. Business Overview – Network and Technology - Network and Cell Sites Sharing Agreements". If we cannot obtain or maintain favorable roaming arrangements, our services may be less attractive or less profitable. We rely on agreements to provide roaming capabilities to our subscribers in many areas outside Israel. As of December 31, 2013, we had roaming arrangements with 564 cellular providers in 179 countries around the world. However, we cannot control the quality of the service that they provide and it may be inferior to the quality of service that we provide. Equally, our subscribers may not be able to use some of the advanced features that they enjoy when making calls on our network. Some of our competitors may be able to obtain lower roaming rates than we do because they may have larger call volumes. If our competitors’ providers can deliver a higher quality or a more cost effective roaming service, then subscribers may migrate to those competitors and our results of operation could be adversely affected. Further, we may not be able to compel providers to participate in our technology migration and enhancement strategies. As a result, our ability to implement technological innovations could be adversely affected if these overseas providers are unable 27 Table of Contents or unwilling to cooperate with the further development of our network or if they cease to provide services comparable to those we offer on our network. Inbound roaming to our network is also influenced by our ability to maintain favorable roaming arrangements. The entry of additional UMTS providers has not only increased competition regarding outgoing roaming services but also increased competition on inbound roaming services. In recent years, roaming tariffs for our subscribers have decreased. If roaming tariffs continue to decrease including as a result of the increasing competition and/or the changing regulation, this could adversely affect our profitability and results of operations. Our substantial debt increases our exposure to market risks, may limit our ability to incur additional debt that may be necessary to fund our operations and could adversely affect our financial stability; regulatory change, market terms and our financial results may affect our possibilities to raise debt. As of December 31, 2013, our total indebtedness was approximately NIS 5,437 million ($1,566 million), with our net debt at approximately NIS 3,842 million ($1,107 million). For additional details see "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects. – B. Liquidity and Capital Resources – General". The indentures governing our debentures currently permit us to incur additional indebtedness (subject in some case to certain limitations). Our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial condition by, among other things: · increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or business conditions, including increases in the Israeli Consumer Prices Index, or CPI, as approximately NIS 3,912 million ($1,127 million) is CPI linked; · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our industry and the economy in general; · requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, thus reducing the funds available for operations and future business development, as well as for dividend distribution; and · limiting our ability to obtain, or resulting in less favorable terms and pricing for, additional financing to operate, develop and expand our business or for refinancing existing debt. In October 2010, the Commissioner of Capital Markets, Insurance and Savings in the Ministry of Finance published a circular instructing institutional investors to follow certain procedures and requirements before investing in non-governmental debentures, including a requirement to verify that certain contractual provisions are included in the indentures of the invested debentures, and to establish a policy for investment in such debentures which will relate among other matters to repayment acceleration rights. Following these procedures, our series F and G indentures dated March 2012 include such limitations and covenants, including a covenant not to issue additional debentures if it involves a rating downgrade, certain financial covenants, negative pledge, cross default, limitation on the distribution of dividends, obligation to pay additional interest in case of certain rating downgrades (which occurred under our series F and G debentures, in June 2013). These limitations are expected to apply to any additional debt raised by us. In August 2013, the Commissioner of Capital 28 Table of Contents Markets, Insurance and Savings in the Ministry of Finance published a continuance circular generally providing example terms to be included in indentures. For details regarding such limitations and covenants see "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects. – B. Liquidity and Capital Resources – Debt Service". These procedures, limitations and covenants limit our freedom to conduct our business, may impose additional costs on us and may limit our ability to raise additional debt from Israeli institutional investors as well as adversely affect the terms and price of such debt raising. During 2011, 2012 and 2013, we suffered a significant decrease in our operating results following certain regulatory changes, intensified competition and price erosion (see "Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview –Competition", "-Mobile Virtual Network Operators" and "-Additional UMTS Operators") whereas our net debt has increased . For additional details see "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – B. Liquidity and Capital Resources – Debt Service". In May 2012 and in June 2013, the rating of our debentures was downgraded due to increased leverage and competitive pressure. This and any further downgrade in our rating, and any adverse change in our financial results, including any increase in our net leverage (defined in our series F and G indentures as the ratio of net debt to EBITDA during a period of 12 consecutive months, excluding onetime influences), may adversely affect the terms and price of debt raised, particularly through the issuance of debentures to institutional investors, which, given the limitation on the ability of Israeli banks to lend money to us pursuant to the “Guidelines for Sound Bank Administration” issued by the Israeli Supervisor of Banks (as we are a member of IDB’s group of borrowers), may limit our ability to obtain additional financing to operate, develop and expand our business or to refinance existing debt. See also the law for the promotion of competition and the mitigation of concentration under "Risks Relating to Our Ordinary Shares - Legislation in Israel affecting corporate conglomerates, could adversely affect us" below, which may adversely affect our possibilities of raising debt from Israeli institutional investors. Our business results may be affected by currency fluctuations, by our currency hedging positions and by changes in the Israeli Consumer Price Index. A portion of our cash payments are incurred in, or linked to, foreign currencies, mainly U.S. dollars. In particular, in 2011, 2012 and 2013, payments denominated in, or linked to, foreign currencies, mainly U.S. dollars, represented approximately 39%, 36% and 24%, respectively, of our total cash outflow (including payments of principal and interest on our debentures, but excluding one-time payments in 2011 associated with the acquisition of Netvision). These payments included capital expenditures, some cell site rental fees, payments to equipment suppliers including handset suppliers and part of our dividend payments. As almost all of our cash receipts are in NIS, any devaluation of the NIS against those foreign currencies in which we make payments, particularly the U.S. dollar, will increase the NIS cost of our foreign currency denominated or linked expenses and capital expenditures. Furthermore, since the principal amount of and interest that we pay on our Series B, D and F debentures, are linked to the Israeli CPI, any increase in the Israeli CPI will increase our financing expenses and could adversely affect our results of operations. See "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – B. Liquidity and Capital Resources – Debt Service" for details. 29 Table of Contents We purchase derivative financial instruments in order to hedge part of the foreign currency risks, CPI risks deriving from our operations and indebtedness. Derivatives are initially recognized at fair value. Changes in the fair value are accounted for such that: Changes in the fair value of derivative hedging instruments designated as a cash flow hedge are recognized directly as a component of our shareholders’ equity to the extent that the hedge is effective. To the extent that the hedge is ineffective, changes in fair value are recognized in our income statement as the hedged item affects earnings. The amount recognized in shareholders’ equity is transferred to our income statement in the same period that the hedged item affects our earnings. Notwithstanding the above, hedge accounting is not applied to derivative instruments that economically hedge monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. Changes in the fair value of such derivatives are recognized through our income statement upon occurrence. These differences in the derivative instruments' designation could result in fluctuations in our reported net income on a quarterly basis. We may not be able to fulfill our dividend policy in the future; implementation of our dividend policy will significantly reduce our future cash reserves. In February 2006, we adopted a dividend policy targeting a payout ratio of at least 75% of our net income in each calendar year, subject to any applicable law, our license and contractual obligations and provided that such distribution would not be detrimental to our cash needs or to any plans approved by our Board of Directors. Our series F and G indentures dated March 2012 contain a covenant not to distribute more than 95% of the profits available for distribution according to the Israeli Companies Law 1999, or Companies Law, or Profits. Moreover, under such indentures, if our net leverage (defined as the ratio of net debt to EBITDA during a period of 12 consecutive months, excluding certain one-time effects) exceeds 3.5:1, we may not distribute more than 85% of our Profits and if our net leverage exceeds 4.0:1, we may not distribute more than 70% of our Profits. For additional details see "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – B. Liquidity and Capital Resources – Debt Service ". In addition, our license requires that we and our 10% or more shareholders maintain at least $200 million of combined shareholders’ equity. Dividend payments are not guaranteed and our Board of Directors may decide, in its absolute discretion, at any time and for any reason, not to pay dividends or to pay dividends at a ratio to net income that is less than that paid in the past. In 2010 and 2011 our Board of Directors declared dividends constituting as much as 95% of our net income and in some cases, part of our retained earnings from earlier periods as well. In respect of 2012 and 2013, a dividend was declared for the first quarter of 2012 and third quarter of 2013 only, constituting 75% of our net income, and part of our retained earnings from earlier periods, respectively, whereas for the second, third and fourth quarters of 2012 and the first, second and fourth quarters of 2013, our board of directors chose not to declare dividends, given the intensified competition and its adverse effect on our results of operations and in order to strengthen our balance sheet. See “Item 8. Financial Information - A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information - Dividend Policy”. Our dividend policy, to the extent implemented, will significantly reduce our future cash reserves and may adversely affect our ability to fund unexpected capital expenditures. As a result, we may be required to borrow additional money or raise capital by issuing equity securities, which may not be possible on attractive terms or at all. 30 Table of Contents If we are unable to fulfill our dividend policy, or pay dividends at levels anticipated by investors in our shares, the market price of our shares may be negatively affected and the value of our investors’ investment may be reduced. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for key equipment and services. We depend upon a small number of suppliers to provide us with key equipment and services. For example, Nokia Siemens Israel provides our network system based on GSM/GPRS/EDGE technology, our UMTS/HSPA core system, part of our radio access network and related products and services, and our landline New Generation Network system, or NGN system; LM Ericsson Israel supplies part of our radio access network and related products and services based on UMTS/HSPA technology; Amdocs Israel provides us with services with respect to the operating of, and the implementation of developments to our existing billing system, including the development of a new version to include both our and Netvision's billing; Alcatel Lucent provides our Carrier Ethernet network and SDH equipment for our transmission network; and Be’eri Printers provides our printing supplies and invoices as well as the distribution, packaging and delivery of invoices and other mail to the postal service distribution centers. In addition, we lease a small portion of our transmission capacity from Bezeq, the incumbent landline operator. Should an effective landline wholesale market materialize and should we enter an agreement for the purchase of broadband infrastructure services with IBC, we may acquire services from Bezeq, Hot and IBC in order to provide internet infrastructure IPTV and landline telephony services to our customers at competitive prices, in which case we would be dependent on Bezeq, Hot and IBC for such services. Bezeq has experienced labor disputes, including stoppages, during the privatization process and liberalization of the landline market, Hot has experienced labor disruptions, during a unionization attempt in the last year and the IEC's (one of IBC owners) employees have been reported to delay IBC's operation until their demands are met and additional disruptions, stoppages and slowdowns may be experienced in the future and adversely affect our operations. If these suppliers fail to provide equipment or services to us that meet requisite quality standards or on a timely basis, we may be unable to provide services to our subscribers in an optimal manner until an alternative source can be found, which may result in loss of customers and revenues or place our license at risk of revocation for failure to satisfy the required service standards. In addition, our handset sales have been dominated in recent years by Apple and Samsung products, representing over half of our handset sales. See "Item 4. Information on the Company - B. Business Overview - Handsets" for additional details. Should any of these suppliers (Samsung through its official importer to Israel – Suny Communications (1994) Ltd., or Suny, with its affiliate Scailex Corporation Ltd., or Scailex, are part of Partner's controlling shareholders) refuse to sell handsets to us, condition such sales on unfavorable terms and conditions or provide our competitors more favorable terms and conditions, or if these suppliers fail to produce successful and desirable products when no equivalent alternatives are available, this could have a material adverse effect on our handset sales and results of operations. Our investment in new businesses involves many risks. We have invested and expect to continue to invest in exploration and development of new business opportunities in order to extend and complete our capabilities and offerings, such as our OTT TV solution, which is in the final stages of development. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including shift of management attention from 31 Table of Contents our ongoing business, loss of focus of our sales and marketing efforts on our main businesses due to attention given to new businesses, insufficient revenues to offset liabilities assumed and expenses associated with these new investments, inadequate return of capital on our investments, and unidentified issues not discovered in our due diligence of such strategies and offerings, such as unforeseen operating difficulties and large expenditures. Because these new ventures are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that such strategies and offerings will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our reputation, financial condition, and operating results. Moreover, entry into such new ventures may trigger increased competitive pressure by the incumbent providers of competing services on our core business, aiming at preventing our efforts to compete with them at the relevant market. We are a member of the IDB group of companies, one of Israel’s largest and most highly regulated business groups, which may limit our ability to expand our business, to acquire other businesses or raise debt. The effects on us of IDB's pending change of control at IDB are unclear. We are an indirect subsidiary of IDB, one of Israel’s largest and highly regulated business groups. In January 2014, the Israeli court approved a creditors' arrangement for IDB, under which if implemented) IDB Development (currently its wholly owned subsidiary) would be controlled by the Elzstain - Extra group, led by Mr. Eduardo Elzstain (who as of December 31, 2013, held 10% of the outstanding share capital of a private company that was among the then controlling shareholders of IDB - see the recent developments described in Item 7A below) and Mr. Mordechai Ben Moshe. The creditors' arrangement is subject to receipt of requisite approvals under applicable law including, among others, by the Ministry of Communications and the Commissioner of Capital Markets, Insurance and Savings in the Ministry of Finance. Subsequently, Mr. Nochi Dankner and Ganden Holdings Ltd. (IDB's controlling shareholders as of December 31, 2013) filed a request to annul the court's approval to the creditors' arrangement for IDB and also filed an appeal against such decision to the Supreme Court. We are unable to predict the effect on us of the above pending creditors' arrangement and resultant change of control in IDB, if implemented, and as such, IDB's financial condition could have an adverse effect on our debentures rating or ability to raise additional debt, or on the terms of any debt raised. In addition, pursuant to the “Guidelines for Sound Bank Administration” issued by the Israeli Supervisor of Banks, the amount that an Israeli bank may lend to one group of borrowers and to each of its six largest borrowers is limited. Since we are a member of IDB’s group of borrowers, these guidelines may limit the ability of Israeli banks to lend money to us. Due to the limited size and high level of regulation of the Israeli market, and the communications market in particular, our being a member of the IDB group of companies may limit our ability to expand our business in the future, form joint ventures and strategic alliances and conduct other strategic transactions with other participants in the Israeli communications market. See also the law for the promotion of competition and the mitigation of concentration under "Risks Relating to Our Ordinary Shares - Legislation in Israel affecting corporate conglomerates, could adversely affect us" below, which may have an adverse effect on our business. 32 Table of Contents We are controlled by a single shareholder who can significantly influence matters requiring shareholders’ approval. As of December 31, 2013, DIC held, directly and indirectly, approximately 41.89% of our outstanding share capital. Pursuant to shareholders agreements among DIC and certain of our minority shareholders, who in the aggregate own approximately 3.43% of our ordinary shares, DIC has been granted the voting rights in respect of those shares. In addition to DIC’s shareholdings and such additional voting rights, it has the right to appoint the 20% of our directors that we are required by our license and articles of association to have appointed by Israeli citizens and residents among our founding shareholders. Accordingly, subject to legal limitations, DIC has control (as the term "control" is defined in the Israeli Securities Law; namely the ability to direct a company's activities) over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election and removal of our directors (other than external directors) and the approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership could delay or prevent proxy contests, mergers, tender offers, open-market purchase programs or other purchases of our ordinary shares that might otherwise give our shareholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for our ordinary shares. Further, as a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from the application of the NYSE rules requiring the majority of the members of our Board of Directors to be independent. Accordingly, our minority shareholders and debenture holders are denied the protection intended to be afforded by such corporate governance standards. Risks Related to our Wholly Owned Subsidiary Netvision Changes in the regulatory environment could adversely affect Netvision's business. Netvision is subject to regulation of its ongoing operations and could therefore be significantly impacted by decisions of regulators, changes in laws, regulations or government policy affecting its business activities. The uncertainties and risks surrounding the regulatory framework of the Israeli telecommunications market, some of which we are currently unable to foresee or assess, could negatively affect Netvision's business and prospects. Netvision's operations in the ISP services, landline telephony and ILD services are highly regulated. A change in the competitive structure of the market or a change in the regulation on structural separation of different types of services may adversely affect Netvision's results of operations and its ability to compete with other large players in the market, such as Bezeq and Hot. The annulment of Early Termination Fees in the landline and ISP markets in November 2011 has increased competition as it has eliminated transfer barriers and resulted in increased churn rate and gross recruitment of subscribers and price erosion. A policy paper in relation to the wholesale market of landline services in Israel published by the Ministry of Communications has called for the annulment of certain structural limitations currently imposed on the Bezeq and Hot groups (and possibly others), following the execution of a wholesale agreement with another operator which has a significant market share. As negotiations failed, we are awaiting the MOC's decision as to wholesale prices (a hearing to that effect was published by the MOC in January 2014). Further, a hearing published by the MOC in October 2013, regarding a change to the ILD services Regulation, proposes, among other things, to annul the current limitation preventing landline and cellular operators from providing ILD services themselves (rather than through a separate corporation). If such change is adopted and applied to the Bezeq and Hot groups, it 33 Table of Contents will result in the annulment of the current structural limitations on these groups, in relation to the ILD services, even before a landline wholesale market is created, and could result in substantial loss of market share for Netvision (and other ILD providers which are not subsidiaries of Hot and Bezeq), in light of their dominance in the landline market. Further, in November 2013, the Israeli Antitrust Commissionaire published a draft of the terms under which it is considering approving a merger between Bezeq and Yes, Bezeq's subsidiary providing multichannel pay-TV, for the public's comments. Such merger, if approved, may increase Bezeq's ability and interest to favor its own subsidiary over other IPTV providers which are both dependent on Bezeq's infrastructure and competitors of its subsidiary, including by more favorable services, prices and service and may, should we decide to launch an IPTV service, adversely affect Netvision/our ability to offer a bundle of services including competitive IPTV services. Entry of additional competitors into the markets in which Netvision operates, facilitated by an effective wholesale market and the proposed unified license, may also increase competition in these markets. For additional details see "Item 4. Information on the Company - B. Business Overview – Competition", "-Government Regulation – Other Licenses – Possible Unified License", "-Government Regulations – Landline" and "Nevision - Telephony Business – Regulation". Permitting telecommunications companies to offer bundled services and annulment of structural separation and supervision of Bezeq's tariffs may have a material adverse effect on Netvision's results of operation by enabling increased competition in the markets in which Netvision operates, specifically by approaching Netvision's customers in the ISP and landline markets which are Bezeq or Hot's customers in the internet infrastructure market. Moreover, it could specifically give a competitive edge to Bezeq and Hot, whose existing infrastructure and ability to offer bundled services may significantly harm Netvision's competitive position. Bezeq and Hot have the advantage of owning their own infrastructure and the ability to offer landline, international telephony and ISP services, as well as multichannel television independently of any third party support, unlike Netvision. Bezeq and Hot offer bundles of services under certain conditions. Annulment of these conditions and the structural separation, would provide Bezeq and Hot with additional advantage over other service providers such as Netvision that do not own their own infrastructure, given their success in creating a bundle perception to the public, despite the current limitations. Further, the offering of services by the Bezeq and Hot groups at tariffs significantly lower than prevailing market tariffs or than our costs for these services, such as by cross subsidizing with other services in which they have the capacity to monopolize the market, or by providing us inferior services than those provided to their subsidiaries, or at higher prices, could also significantly harm Netvision's competitive position as it could decrease demand for Netvision's services or lead Netvision to offer its services at a loss. Further, as Netvision is dependant on Bezeq and Hot's infrastructure to provide its services on the one hand, and is competing with them on the provision of ISP, ILD and landline services to end-users, on the other hand, price erosion of ISP services would lead to increased demand for greater bandwidth and would require Netvision to increase the capacity it purchases from Bezeq and Hot, while its revenues would be decreasing. This could also have a material adverse effect on Netvision's results of operations. In February 2012, Hot began offering ISP services and has done so at tariffs significantly lower than prevailing market prices and both Bezeq and Hot have significantly lowered their internet infrastructure services tariffs to end-users and are vigorously promoting wider bandwidth to end-customers. This has led to a significant decrease of ISP tariffs. See "Item 4. Information on The Company –B. Business Overview – The Communications Market in Israel - Communications Groups – Structural Separation", 34 Table of Contents "– Competition", "-Government Regulations – Landline", and "Nevision - ISP Business - Competition" and "Nevision - Telephony Business – Competition". In August 2013, I.B.C. Israel Broadband Company (2013) Ltd., or IBC, a company owned by the Israeli Electric Company, or IEC, and an international group led by Via Europa, received licenses for the provision of broadband infrastructure services on the IEC's optic fibers infrastructure to other licenses holders as well as directly to large business customers. As a result, IBC will be competing with Netvision in the business market. IBC further condition its services, among other requirements, with the demand that end users be able to purchase services from license holders purchasing its broadband infrastructure, through IBC's internet portal, where they will be able to compare license holders offers (such offers are to be reported in advance to IBC for that purpose) and transfer between them through such internet portal. Such portal is expected to increase the competitive pressures in the ISP and landline services and lead to further price erosion. The entry of Hot Mobile and Golan into the ILD market in the second half of 2012 and the beginning of 2013, respectively and the inclusion of ILD services in bundles of services provided by both landline and cellular operators, had an adverse effect on Netvision's results of operations, as customers chose to obtain their ILD services from their cellular or landline's ILD subsidiary, rather than from Netvision's. This trend is expected to continue to adversely affect Netvision's results of operations, particularly if the proposed changes to the ILD regulation detailed above are adopted with regard to Bezeq and Hot. In addition, in November 2011 the Ministry of Communications published in a hearing about proposed regulation of the underwater international telecommunications connection from Israel that would impose certain limitations on agreements with Mediterranean Nautilus Ltd. and Mediterranean Nautilus (Israel) Ltd., or collectively Med Nautilus, Netvision's provider, which would limit the discounts and capacity Med Nautilus may provide. Adoption of such changes may harm Netvision's results of operations and competitive position by forcing Netvision to purchase capacity at less favorable prices. Netvision is exposed to risks relating to network infrastructure and information systems and is dependent on services it receives from its external suppliers; integration of Netvision's information systems may cause us operating difficulties and expenditures. Netvision does not own an independent network for providing the services it offers to its customers. Therefore, Netvision is dependent on its infrastructure providers, such as Med Nautilus, which provides underwater international telecom connections, and Bezeq and Hot, which provide broadband connectivity and wireline infrastructure. In some cases, these providers are virtually the sole providers of such infrastructure and cannot be replaced. Should a landline wholesale market materialize, Netvision's dependency on Bezeq and Hot would increase, as Netvision would need to acquire additional services from them for the provision of internet infrastructure, as well as for the provision of IPTV services at competitive prices to its customers. Should we enter an agreement for the purchase of broadband infrastructure services with IBC, Netvision would be dependent on IBC for such services. Netvision is also dependent on foreign telecommunications operators for its international ISP and telephony communications. Therefore, termination or amendment of terms of an agreement with any of the infrastructure providers or with some of the foreign operators at once, disruption in or refusal to provide such infrastructure services, as well as regulatory changes affecting the terms of infrastructure services that Netvision receives, may 35 Table of Contents have a material adverse effect on Netvision's ability to provide its services to customers or the profitability of providing such services. Netvision's operations are dependent on various information systems. The unauthorized entry to or disruption of operation of these information systems, including due to cyber attacks, may result in damage to Netvision and its customers, including due to inability to provide certain services or provide them with disruptions or inability to bill for services rendered, loss of data of Netvision or that of its customers stored with Netvision, all of which may expose Netvision to legal claims and liabilities. Further, any successful attacks on Netvisions' customers' information systems, protected by Netvision's data security products, may also expose Netvision to legal claims and liability. Our merger with Netvision and the offering of bundles of services provided by both companies, increased the number of information systems involved in the billing process of our customers as well as the duplication of other information systems used by the companies, resulting in some cases in cumbersome procedures, inefficient usage of resources and lack of uniformity. The process of integrating Netvision's information systems into our information systems may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and large expenditures and may require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for our ongoing business. Further, the replacement of systems or change of processes may result in substantial malfunctions in our sales and retention activities, errors in billings or other processes, which may lead to loss of revenues, legal claims and regulatory sanctions. Alternate technology may cause a decline in Netvision's international calling services. In recent years there has been a decline in use of ILD services through international operators such as Netvision. This is due to, among other things, the development of alternate technologies, such as VoIP, which enable international calls without the services of international operators. These technologies also pose an alternative to landline communications. If this trend continues and alternate technologies improve or if new ones are developed, competition in the market will increase, which may have a material adverse effect on Netvision's results of operations. Risks Relating to Operating in Israel We conduct our operations in Israel and therefore our results may be adversely affected by political, economic and military instability in Israel. Our operations, our network and some of our suppliers are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel may directly affect our business. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors, Hamas (an Islamist militia and political group in the Gaza Strip) and Hezbollah (an Islamist militia and political group in Lebanon). Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade within Israel or between Israel and its trading partners could adversely affect our operations and could make it more difficult for us to raise capital. A substantial part of our network and information systems is located within range of missile strikes from the Gaza Strip and Lebanon. Any damage to our network and/or information systems would damage our ability to provide service, in whole or in part, in the southern or northern part of Israel or otherwise damage our operation and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 36 Table of Contents More generally, any armed conflicts, terrorist activities or political instability in the region would likely negatively affect business conditions and could harm our results of operations, including following termination of such conflicts, due to a decrease in the number of tourists visiting Israel. Since the end of 2010 several countries in the region, including Egypt and Syria, have been experiencing increased political instability, which led to changes in government in some of these countries, the effects of which are currently difficult to assess. In addition, Iran has threatened to attack Israel and is widely suspected to be developing nuclear weapons. Iran is also believed to have a strong influence among extremist groups in areas that neighbor Israel, such as Hamas in Gaza and Hezbollah in Lebanon. This situation may potentially escalate in the future to violent events which may affect Israel and us. In addition, in the event that the State of Israel relinquishes control over certain territories currently held by it to the Palestinian Authority, we will not be able to provide service from our cell sites located in Israeli populated areas and on connecting roads in these territories. This may result in the loss of subscribers and revenues and in a decrease in our market share. Our freedom and ability to conduct our operations may be limited during periods of national emergency. The Communications Law grants the Prime Minister of Israel the authority, for reasons of state security or public welfare, to order a telecommunications license holder to provide services to security forces, to perform telecommunications activities or to establish a telecommunications facility as may be required for the security forces to carry out their duties. Further, the Israeli Equipment Registration and IDF Mobilization Law, 1987, also permits the registration of engineering equipment and facilities and the taking thereof for the use of the Israel Defense Forces. This law further sets the payment for use and compensation for damages caused to the operator as a result of such taking. Our general license also permits the Israeli Government, during national emergencies or for reasons of national security, to take all necessary actions in order to ensure state security, including taking control of our network, and requires us to cooperate with such actions. If national emergency situations arise in the future and if we are to be subject during such time to any of the foregoing actions, this could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and provide services during such national emergencies and adversely affect our business operations. Our other licenses and Netvision's licenses (excluding our ISP licenses) contain similar restrictions. See also “Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview – Government Regulations ― Our Principal License”, “Other Licenses” and "– Netvision". Provisions of Israeli law and our license may delay, prevent or impede an acquisition of us, which could prevent a change of control. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. For example, a merger may not be completed unless at least 50 days have passed from the date that a merger proposal was filed by each merging company with the Israel Registrar of Companies and at least 30 days from the date that the shareholders of both merging companies approved the merger. In addition, a majority of each class of securities of the target company is required to approve a merger. Further, the 37 Table of Contents provisions of our license require the prior approval of the Ministry of Communications for changes of control in our Company. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to us or to our shareholders whose country of residence does not have a tax treaty with Israel exempting such shareholders from Israeli tax. For example, Israeli tax law does not recognize tax-free share exchanges to the same extent as U.S. tax law. With respect to mergers, Israeli tax law allows for tax deferral in certain circumstances but makes the deferral contingent on the fulfillment of numerous conditions, including a holding period of two years from the date of the transaction during which sales and dispositions of shares of the participating companies are restricted. Moreover, with respect to certain share swap transactions, the tax deferral is limited in time, and when the time expires, tax then becomes payable even if no actual disposition of the shares has occurred. These provisions could delay, prevent or impede an acquisition of us, even if such an acquisition would be considered beneficial by some of our shareholders. Risks Relating to Our Ordinary Shares A substantial number of our ordinary shares could be sold into the public market, which could depress our share price. Our largest shareholder, DIC, holds approximately 41.89% of our outstanding ordinary shares, as of December 31, 2013. The market price of our ordinary shares could decline as a result of future sales by DIC or other existing shareholders or the perception that these sales could occur. DIC sold approximately 5% of our outstanding shares outside the United States in 2011 and approximately 1.7% of our outstanding shares in 2013. Sales may be made pursuant to a registration statement, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, pursuant to the terms of a registration rights agreement or otherwise, or in reliance on an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, including the exemptions provided by Rule 144 or Regulation S. Any decline in our share price could also make it difficult for us to raise additional capital by selling shares. In addition, under our option plan, options are subject to vesting schedules but vesting will be accelerated upon certain events including any sale or other disposition, of all or substantially all, of the outstanding shares of us. As of December 31, 2013 we had 2,965,964 shares reserved for issuance upon the exercise of options. See "Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employment – E. Share Ownership – 2006 Share Incentive Plan". New legislation in Israel affecting corporate conglomerates, could adversely affect us. In December 2013, the law for the promotion of competition and the mitigation of concentration was enacted by the Israeli parliament. The law, in material part: (1) imposes limitations on the holdings by a significant corporation that is not in the financial sector in a significant corporation in the financial sector or the holdings of both kinds of corporations under common control and on the possibility of serving as a director in both a significant non-financial corporation and a significant financial corporation; (2) imposes a two layer limitation on the total number of reporting corporations (layers) in pyramidal structure (for existing pyramidal structures of three layers - after a transition period of six years and of four layers – after a transition period of four years); (3) strengthens the corporate governance rules applicable to public companies in Israel, and sets additional limitations on certain 38 Table of Contents transactions in which a controlling shareholder has a personal interest, strengthens the independence requirements of external directors and requires that within six months and during the said transition period in companies that are third layer and up in a pyramidal structure - the majority of the board of directors be independent, as defined in the Israeli Companies Law, and that the number of external directors be half the number of the company's directors less one (rounded upward) but not less than two (such external directors to be nominated by a shareholders meeting that shall take place within additional three months); (4) authorizes the Israeli Minister of Finance or bodies authorized by it to set limitations regarding the aggregate credit that may be provided by financial institutions to a corporation or a business group (defined as a controlling shareholder and the corporations under its control); and (5) sets additional procedures including involving the committee of mitigation of concentration designated to take into consideration competitive and control concentration factors prior to any allocation of rights in public assets (including in the communications field) by the relevant governmental authorities. The IDB group is a pyramidal structure. Prior to the closing of the creditors' arrangement in IDB, the IDB group has more than three layers of companies and we are a fourth layer company in the pyramidal structure of the IDB group. Following such closing, we shall become a third layer company in the pyramidal structure of the IDB group. Accordingly, the law will require us to change the composition of our board of directors. In addition, the new procedures set in the law in relation to allocation of rights in public assets, could have an adverse effect on our ability to renew our cellular license and receive additional frequencies. The law may also adversely affect our ability to raise debt or other aspects of our business. 