D. RISK FACTORS We believe that the occurrence of any one or some combination of the following factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to our Business We operate in a heavily regulated industry, which can harm our results of operations. In recent years, regulation in Israel has materially adversely affected our results. A substantial part of our operations is subject to the Israeli Communications Law, 1982, the Israeli Wireless Telegraph Ordinance (New Version), 1972, the regulations promulgated thereunder and the licenses for the provision of different telecommunications services that we received from the Ministry of Communications in accordance with the Communications Law. The interpretation and implementation of the Communications Law, Wireless Telegraph Ordinance and regulations and the provisions of our general licenses, as well as our other licenses, are not certain and disagreements have arisen and may arise in the future between the Ministry of Communications and us. The Communications Law and regulations thereunder grant the Ministry of Communications extensive regulatory and supervisory authority with regard to our activities, as well as the authority to impose substantial sanctions in the event of a breach of our licenses or the applicable laws and regulations. In August 2012, the Communications Law was amended so as to set gradually increasing financial sanctions on communication operators, for breach of their licenses, the amount of which will be calculated as a percentage of the operator's income and based on the gravity of the breach. This amendment is expected to substantially increase the Ministry of Communications' usage of such sanctions. Substantial sanctions would negatively affect our results of operations and reputation. Further, in the event that we materially violate the terms of our licenses, the Ministry of Communications has the authority to revoke them. Our operations are subject to the regulatory and supervisory authority of other Israeli regulators which also includes the authority to impose criminal and administrative sanctions against us including, among others, the Ministry of Environmental Protection; the Anti Trust Commissionaire; the Ministry of Justice and the Law, Information and Technology Authority at the Ministry of Justice - in charge of issues such as data bases and privacy protection; the Ministry of Industry and Commerce (including the Fair Trade Authority) in charge of labor and consumer protection. We have witnessed increased activity by some of these regulators in recent years and expect this trend to continue. Substantial sanctions or criminal charges by any of these regulators would negatively affect our results of operations and our reputation. Increased supervision and regulation of our activities could limit our freedom to conduct our business and harm our results of operations. Our general cellular license is valid until February 2022. It may be extended for additional six-year periods upon our request to the Ministry of Communications and confirmation from the Ministry of Communications that we have complied with the provisions of our license and the applicable law, have continuously invested in the improvement of our service and network and have demonstrated the ability to do so in the future. Netvision's Internet Service Provider, or ISP, license and International Long Distance, or ILD, license, are valid until April 2017 and May 2025, respectively and may be extended for additional five and ten year periods, respectively, on terms similar to those provided in our cellular license. Our other licenses are also limited in time. Our licenses may not be 9 Table of Contents extended when necessary, or, if extended, the extensions may be granted on terms that are not favorable to us. In addition, the Ministry of Communications has modified and may modify our licenses without our consent and in a manner that could limit our freedom to conduct our business and harm our results of operations. Possible changes to our licenses and legislation which would require us to change our pricing plans and information systems frequently or on a timetable we cannot meet, can increase the risk of noncompliance with our licenses or violation of such legislation and our exposure to lawsuits and regulatory sanctions. Further, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by new legislation and decisions by our regulators that: · reduce tariffs, or otherwise intervene in the pricing policies for our products and services, including by: intervening in pricing of bundles of services, roaming services, or prohibiting subscription fees for certain services. In 2011, interconnect tariffs were reduced, and early termination fees in plans which include a commitment to a predefined period, or Early Termination Fees, in cellular pricing plans were reduced to a negligible amount (subsequently annulled as of November 2011), have had an ongoing material adverse effect on our results of operations. In 2013, the amendment to the Communications Law prohibiting cellular operators from linking a cellular services transaction and handset purchase transaction, including by way of offering airtime rebates or refunds for the handsets, have come into effect, which is expected to adversely affect our end-user equipment revenues and our results of operations. Additional rules could further impact us. See "Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview – Government Regulations – Tariff Supervision" and "Item 4. Information on The Company – B. Business Overview – Netvision" for additional details; · set unfavorable national roaming tariffs or Mobile Virtual Network Operator, or MVNO, hosting tariffs or tariffs that are lower than the tariffs that we would otherwise be willing to offer. According to the Communications Law, the MOC is required to set the national roaming tariffs until February 1, 2012, however, to date, no such tariffs were set yet. See "Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview - Government Regulations - Additional UMTS Operators"; · award new competitors certain benefits and leniencies not available to existing cellular operators, including through requiring us to allow usage of our network by such competitors and on unfavorable terms to us ; limit our ability to compete, including by limiting our ability to develop our network and by preferring new and/or small competitors in the allocation of frequencies, including those designated to the 4G of cellular services. The entry of additional competitors, specifically the launch of two new UMTS operators (using national roaming) in May 2012, had a material adverse effect on our results of operations and is expected to continue to adversely affect our results of operations in the future. See "Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview" under "Competition" and under "Government Regulations – Mobile Virtual Network Operator" and "- Additional UMTS Operators" for additional details; · impose new safety or health-related requirements; 10 Table of Contents · impose additional restrictions or requirements with respect to the construction and operation of cell sites or the network, including in relation to the deployment of a 4G network and site sharing; · impose restrictions on the provision of services or products we currently provide or regulate or otherwise intervene with the terms under which we advertise and market them and provide them to our subscribers, including in respect of existing agreements. In January 2013, the Ministry of Communications published a hearing proposing restrictions on the provision of roaming services, including default blockage of the data roaming service to be opened only upon the customer's request and automatic blockage of all roaming services to be reopened again upon such request each time the customer reaches a certain usage threshold. The hearing further proposed applying certain notification procedures; · limit or otherwise intervene with the services or products that we may sell; · set higher service standards; · impose the laws and regulations applicable to charge cards on the clearing services we provide to third party providers, including liability for misuse and liability imposed on internet online and telephonic transactions. The Israeli Attorney General has opined before two separate tribunals (which have not yet ruled on the matter) that such legislation applies to the clearing services we provide to our third party providers; · impose a stricter policy with respect to privacy protection, such as with regard to data protection, collection, amelioration or usage of data for marketing activities. An initial proposal of the Information and Technology Authority regarding cellular operators received in March 2012, proposes imposing strict limitations on such collection and usage, including the requirement to receive a positive consent of the customer to do so (other than with regards to basic data). Further, the Israeli Attorney General filed a request to apply such stricter policy on us with the Israeli court of uniform contracts; or · impose structural or operational separation between our and Netvision's operations (partial or full) or between the different services within each company or otherwise limit our ability to offer bundles of services. See "Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview - Government Regulations – Long Distance Services; or set unfavorable regulation regarding the landline wholesale market - see "Item 4. Information on The Company – B. Business Overview – Competition" and "Long Distance Services". See “Item 4. Information on the Company – B – Business Overview – Government Regulations ― Our Principal License” and “Other Licenses”. If we fail to compensate for lost revenues, increased expenses or additional investments resulting from past or future legislative or regulatory changes with alternative sources of income or otherwise, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents We may not be able to obtain permits to construct and operate cell sites. We depend on our network of cell sites to maintain and enhance network coverage for our subscribers. In addition, where necessary, we provide certain subscribers with bi-directional amplifiers, also known as “repeaters,” to remedy weak signal reception in indoor locations. Some of these repeaters are located outdoors on rooftops. We also deploy and operate microwave sites as part of our transmission network. The construction and operation of these various facilities are highly regulated and require us to obtain various consents and permits. See “Item 4.B – Business Overview - Government Regulations - Permits for Cell Site Construction” for additional details. We have experienced difficulties in obtaining some of these consents and permits, particularly in obtaining building permits for cell sites from local planning and building authorities. As of December 31, 2012, we operated a small portion of our cell sites without building permits or applicable exemptions. Although we are in the process of seeking to obtain building permits or to modify our cell sites in order to satisfy applicable exemptions, we may not be able to obtain all the necessary permits or make the necessary modifications. Approximately 30.8% of our cell sites operate without building permits in reliance on an exemption from the requirement to obtain a building permit, mainly for radio access devices. Our reliance on the exemption for radio access devices had been challenged and is currently awaiting ruling by the Israeli Supreme Court. Under an interim order issued by the Supreme Court in September 2010, we are unable to further construct radio access devices in cellular networks in reliance on the exemption, until regulations limiting our reliance on the exemption are enacted or a different decision by the court is made. A further decision of the Supreme Court in February 2011, states that the order will not apply to the replacement of existing radio access devices under certain conditions. In September 2011, the interim order was relaxed to allow two new UMTS operators, Hot Mobile Ltd. (previously Mirs Communications Ltd. or Mirs), or Hot Mobile, and Golan Telecom Ltd., or Golan, to construct radio access devices in reliance on the exemption until July 31, 2012 and was thereafter extended several times until September 30, 2013. Our application to relax the interim order against us was denied. Additionally, in November 2008, the District Court of Central Region, in its capacity as court of appeals, ruled that the exemption does not apply to radio access devices, if the rooftop, on which those devices are located, is at the same level as a residence or other building that is regularly frequented by people. Following the Attorney General's conclusion that the application of the exemption does not balance properly the different interests involved and therefore cannot continue unchanged, the Israeli Minister of Interior Affairs submitted draft regulations for approval by the Economy Committee of the Israeli Parliament in March 2010. The draft regulations include significant limitations on the ability to construct radio access devices based on the exemption, which will render the construction of radio access devices based on the exemption practically impossible. Other appeals relating to the exemption, including as to the requirement to obtain an extraordinary usage permit and other similar challenges, as well as other claims asserting that those cell sites and other facilities do not meet other legal requirements continue, are still under consideration in the courts. 12 Table of Contents In addition, we may be operating a significant number of our cell sites in a manner that is not fully compatible with the building permits issued for these cell sites which may, in some cases, also constitute grounds for termination of their lease agreements or claims for breach of such agreements. Our rooftop microwave sites and repeaters operate in reliance upon an exemption from the requirement to obtain a building permit. Substantially all of our outdoor microwave sites are rooftops. It is unclear whether other types of repeaters require a building permit. An annulment of or inability to rely on or substantial limitation of the exemption could adversely affect our existing networks and networks build-out, particularly given the objection of some local planning and building authorities to grant due permits where required. This could have a negative impact on our ability to obtain environmental permits for these sites, and could negatively affect our ability to continue to market our products and services effectively. This may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. See “Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview - Government Regulations— Permits for Cell Site Construction" for additional details regarding the exemption. Operation of a cell site or other facility without a building permit or not in accordance with the permit or other legal requirements may result in the issuance of a demolition order for the cell site or other facility or the bringing of criminal charges against us and our officers and directors. Certain of our cell sites have been subject to demolition orders. In addition, criminal charges have been brought against us and our officers and directors in connection with cell sites that were alleged to have been constructed or used without the required permits or not in accordance with the permits granted. As of December 31, 2012, 10 criminal and administrative proceedings are outstanding; a demolition order has been granted with respect to four cell sites while the remaining six proceedings are pending further litigation. Pursuant to the Israeli Non-Ionizing Radiation Law, 2006, the granting or renewal of an operating permit by the Commissioner of Environmental Radiation at the Ministry of Environmental Protection of Israel, or Commissioner, for a cell site or other facility is subject to the receipt of a building permit or the facility being exempt from the requirement to obtain a building permit. Should we fail to obtain building permits for our cell sites or other facilities, including in the event that our reliance upon an exemption from the requirement to obtain building permits for these cell sites and other facilities is found invalid, the Commissioner will not grant or renew our operating permits for those cell sites and other facilities. Since October 2007, the Commissioner took the position that he will not grant or renew operating permits to radio access devices, where the local planning and building committee’s engineer objected to our reliance upon the said exemption for radio access devices. For reasons not related to radiation hazards, but due to building and planning issues we have received partial environmental permits for single cell sites. Operating a cell site or a facility without an operating permit could subject us and our officers and directors to criminal, administrative and civil liability. The Non-Ionizing Radiation Law further grants the Commissioner authority to issue eviction orders if a cell site or other facility operates in conflict with its permit, and it imposes criminal sanctions on a company and its directors and officers for violations of the law. Failure to comply with the Non-Ionizing Radiation Law or the terms of a permit can lead to 13 Table of Contents revocation or suspension of the permit, as well as to withholding the grant of permits to additional cell sites of that operator. Should any of our officers or directors be found guilty of an offence, although this has not occurred to date, they may face monetary penalties and a term of imprisonment. Our cell sites may be the subject of demolition orders, we may be required to relocate cell sites to less favorable locations or stop operation of cell sites, which could negatively affect the extent, quality and capacity of our network coverage, all of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Certain proposed amendments to the Non-Ionizing Radiation Law and Regulations which have passed the preliminary stages of enactment, propose setting additional restrictions in relation to the operation of cell sites and other facilities, such as setting larger distance requirements between cell sites locations and residences or certain institutions. If such changes are subsequently adopted, they will, among other things, limit our ability to construct new cell sites (and if applied to existing cell sites, they will also limit our ability to renew operating permits for many of our existing cell sites), adversely affect our existing networks and networks build out, specifically in urban areas, and could adversely affect our results of operations. See “Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview - Government Regulations— Permits for Cell Site Construction" for an additional amendment proposing to cancel the requirement to obtain the Minister of Communications' approval to the Non-Ionizing Radiation Regulations, where such regulations may have a substantial and direct effect on the monetary burden imposed on the communications market. The Israeli National Zoning Plan 36, or the Plan, which regulates cell site construction and operation is in the process of being changed. Current proposed changes impose additional restrictions and requirements on the construction and operation of cell sites. In June 2010, the proposed changes were approved by the Israeli National Council for Planning and Building and submitted for the approval of the Government of Israel. If the proposed changes are approved by the Israeli Government they will harm our ability to construct new cell sites, make the process of obtaining building permits for the construction and operation of cell sites more cumbersome and costly, could adversely affect our existing network and may delay the future deployment of our network and could negatively affect the extent, quality and capacity of our network coverage and our ability to continue to market our products and services effectively, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Several local planning and building authorities are claiming that Israeli cellular operators may not receive building permits, in reliance on the current Plan, for cell sites operating in frequencies not specifically detailed in the frequencies charts attached to the Plan. In a number of cases, these authorities have refused to provide a building permit for such new cell sites, arguing that the Plan does not apply to such cell sites and that building permits for such cell sites should be sought through other processes (which are longer and cumbersome), such as an application for extraordinary usage or under existing local specific zoning plans. Since June 2002, following the approval of the Plan, building permits for our cell sites (where required) have been issued in reliance on the Plan. The current proposed draft amendment to the Plan covers all new cell sites requiring a building permit, independently of the frequencies in which they operate. Most of our cell sites and many cell sites operated by other operators also operate in frequencies not specifically detailed in the Plan. 14 Table of Contents If we are unable to obtain or rely on exemptions from obtaining or to renew building or other consents and permits for our existing cell sites or other facilities, we will be required to demolish or relocate these cell sites and facilities. Our inability to relocate sites or other facilities in a timely manner or to construct and operate new sites or other facilities (if we are unable to obtain the necessary consents and permits or rely on the exemption from the requirement to obtain a building permit), could adversely affect our existing network, result in the loss of subscribers, prevent us from meeting the network coverage and quality requirements contained in our license (which may lead to its revocation) and adversely impact our network build-out, all of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In July 2011, an inter-ministry team of the Ministries of Communications, Finance, Interior, Environmental Protection and the Anti-Trust Commissionaire, published its recommendations regarding cell site sharing. The recommendations include compulsory cell sites sharing in the construction of new cell sites or for modification to existing cell sites which require a building permit (the Ministry of Communications may exempt sharing for reasons related to technological or engineering difficulties), while providing preference and leniencies to the new UMTS operators, as well as the reduction of the existing non shared cell sites quantity. These recommendations or similar recommendations, if enacted, will further burden the construction of new cell sites and modifications to existing cell sites, and may adversely affect our existing cellular network, the network build-out and our results of operations. We may be required to indemnify certain local planning and building committees in respect of claims against them. Under the Israeli Planning and Building Law, 1965, by approving a building plan, local planning and building committees may be held liable to compensate for depreciation of properties included in or neighboring the approved plan. In January 2006, the law was amended to require an applicant, as a precondition to obtaining a cell site construction permit from a planning and building committee, to provide a letter to the committee indemnifying it for possible depreciation claims. As of December 31, 2012, we have provided approximately 349 indemnification letters to local planning and building committees. Calls upon our indemnification letters may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may also decide to demolish or relocate existing cell sites to less favorable locations and to construct new cell sites in alternative, less suitable locations or not at all, due to the obligation to provide indemnification. As a result, our existing service may be impaired or the expansion of our network coverage could be limited. In addition, local planning and building committees have sought to join cellular operators, including us, as defendants in depreciation claims made against them even though indemnification letters were not provided. We have been joined as defendants in a small number of cases. In February 2007, the Israeli Minister of Interior Affairs extended the limitation period within which depreciation claims may be brought under the Israeli Planning and Building Law from three years from approval of a building plan, to the later of one year from receiving a building permit for a cell site under National Zoning Plan 36 and six months from the construction of a cell site. The Minister retains the general authority to extend such period 15 Table of Contents further. This extension of the limitation period increases our potential exposure to depreciation claims. In addition, should the Planning and Building Law be construed or amended to allow a longer period of limitation for depreciation claims than the current limitation period set in that law, our potential exposure to depreciation claims would increase. Alleged health risks relating to non-ionizing radiation generated from cell sites and cellular telecommunications devices may harm our prospects. Handsets, accessories and various types of cell sites are known to be sources of non-ionizing radiation emissions and are the subject of a public debate and growing concern in Israel. While, to the best of our knowledge, the handsets that we market comply with the applicable legislation that relate to acceptable “specific absorption rate,” or SAR, levels, we rely on the SAR levels published by the manufacturers of these handsets and do not perform independent inspections of the SAR levels of these handsets. As the manufacturers’ approvals refer to a prototype handset, we have no information as to the actual level of SAR of the handsets throughout the lifecycle of the handsets, including in the case of handset repair. See also “Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview - Government Regulations - Handsets”. In July 2008, the Israeli Ministry of Health published recommendations to take precautionary measures when using cellular handsets, which has increased the concerns of the Israeli public. In May 2011, the International Agency for Research on Cancer, an agency of the World Health Organization, or WHO, issued a press release classifying radiofrequency electromagnetic fields as possibly carcinogenic to humans (Group 2B), based on an increased risk for glioma, a malignant type of brain cancer, associated with wireless phone use. In June 2011, the WHO publication noted that to date, no adverse health effects have been established as being caused by mobile phone use and while an increased risk of brain tumors is not established, the increasing use of mobile phones and the lack of data for mobile phone use over time periods longer than 15 years warrant further research of mobile phone use and brain cancer risk, particularly given recent popular use by younger people with potentially longer periods of exposure. Several bills, aimed at increasing awareness of the possible risks of cellular phones usage, reducing usage thereof and introducing precautionary measures are awaiting deliberation by the Israeli Parliament. In January 2013, the Ministry of Science and Technology and the Ministry of Environmental Protection announced the establishment of a non-ionizing radiation information center that will provide information to the public, issue warnings and guidelines for reducing exposure to risks in general and specifically in regards to sensitive populations and perform and coordinate research in that regard. In March 2013, Partner has reportedly agreed to pay NIS 400 thousand to a customer claiming his cancer was caused by cellular phone usage (while disclaiming any responsibility). Health concerns regarding cell sites have already caused us difficulties in obtaining permits for cell site construction and obtaining or renewing leases for cell sites and even resulted in unlawful sabotage of a small number of cell sites and have further prompted proposed legislation aimed at increasing the minimum distance permitted between cell sites and certain institutions. See "We may not be able to obtain permits to construct and operate cell sites" above for additional details. In July 2009, the Ministries of Interior Affairs and Environmental Protection adopted a position (as part of the recommendations made by an inter-ministry committee established to examine the appropriateness of future application of the exemption from obtaining building permits for radio access devices) that, with respect to radiation safety, cell sites constructed pursuant to a building permit are preferable to radio access devices and that utilizing a cellular network to provide advanced services which can be provided through a landline network, is unjustified in light of the preventive care principle set forth in the Israeli Non-Ionizing Radiation Law. Further, in May 2012, the positions of the Ministries of Communications, Health and Environmental Protection in relation to the 16 Table of Contents various aspects of the provision of 4G services in Israel were published, in response to a petition to hold a public debate regarding 4G service in Israel and prevent 4G spectrum allocation until such debate is held. The Ministries held the position that 4G services would involve some increase in the level of non-ionizing radiation the public will be exposed to, and that in order to minimize such increase 4G deployment should be based on current cell sites, additional outdoor and indoor small cell sites, and whenever possible, should use wireline infrastructure so that data traffic shall be carried mostly through wirelines and not cellular infrastructure. The adoption of the inter-ministry team's recommendations, regarding cell site sharing (see "We may not be able to obtain permits to construct and operate cell sites" above for additional details), is a precondition for the deployment of 4G infrastructure. The Ministry of Health further opined that in light of the preventive precaution principle and in order to reduce as much as possible the alleged health risks, 4G usages should be predefined and additional usage, where a landline alternative is available, should be conditioned on further discussion. If health concerns regarding non-ionizing radiation increase further, or if adverse findings in studies of non-ionizing radiation are published or if non-ionizing radiation levels are found to be higher than the standards set for handsets and cell sites, we may be subject to health-related claims for substantial sums; consumers may be discouraged from using cellular handsets and regulators may impose additional restrictions on the construction and operation of cell sites or handset usage. As a result, we may experience increased difficulty in constructing and operating cell sites and obtaining leases for new cell site locations or renewing leases for existing locations (although so far, in total we have experienced renewal problems with approximately 7% of our cell site leases each year); we may be exposed to property depreciation claims; and we may lose revenues due to decreasing usage of our services; we may be subject to increased regulatory costs. We have not obtained insurance for these potential claims. See note 29 to our consolidated financial report for 2012, included elsewhere in this annual report for additional details on two purported class actions filed against us in that respect (after a third one was dismissed without prejudice). An additional purported class action which was filed against us for not obtaining such insurance was subsequently dismissed without prejudice. An adverse outcome or settlement of any health-related litigation against us or any other provider of cellular services (such as the abovementioned reported payment Partner agreed to pay) could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or prospects. We face intense competition in all aspects of our business The Israeli cellular telephone market is highly competitive. We compete for subscribers with four other mobile network operators, or MNOs, and three MVNO operators. While we enjoy the largest subscriber market share, estimated to be 31.9% as of December 31, 2012, two of our competitors, Partner and Pelephone, enjoy estimated market shares of 29.5% and 28% respectively, with Hot Mobile estimated to have a market share of 7.6%, Golan estimated to have a market share of 1.8% and the MVNO operators together, with an estimated market share of approximately 1.2%. The current competitive pressure in the Israeli cellular market results primarily from the entry into the market of additional competitors, specifically the launch of two new UMTS operators in May 2012 - Hot Mobile and Golan, using national roaming on Pelephone's and our networks (respectively) and aiming to win market share by introducing packages which included unlimited usage of certain services, or Unlimited Packages, at significantly lower tariffs than market level at that time. Given the highly penetrated state of the market, this has further increased the already intense competition characterizing the Israeli cellular market before their entry substantially accelerated price erosion, materially increased churn rate, increased subscriber acquisition 17 Table of Contents and retention costs due to materially increased gross recruitment of subscribers and led to a material decrease in revenues and profitability for us and other MNOs. Previous regulatory and other changes, which contributed to the intensified competition and increased price erosion during 2011, include the reduction of Early Termination Fees in February 2011 and the formation of communications groups. The intensified competition led to the offering of bundles of services and Unlimited Packages, at lower average revenue per minute, or ARPU, by all competitors. In addition, regulatory changes leading to the entry of additional competitors to the handset market, increased competition in that market significantly and resulted in a decrease in the sale of handsets by us. See also “Item 4. Information on the Company - B. Business Overview" under “The Telecommunications Industry in Israel”, under "Competition" and under "Government Regulations – Mobile Virtual Network Operator" and "Additional UMTS Operators". Should these trends continue to characterize the communications market they shall continue to affect the level of competition and our results of operations. Moreover, should any of them intensify or should any of the following developments materialize in our market, the level of competition may increase even further and may result in a further increase in the churn rate, loss of market share, increased subscriber acquisition and retention costs, further price erosion and ultimately reduced profitability for us: · tariffs decreasing even further. The launch of Hot Mobile and Golan's UMTS operation in May 2012, without having to first invest in building their own network and with prices significantly lower than market level at that time, aiming to win market share in the private sector as quickly as possible (as their commitment to pay the license fee which amounts to approximately NIS 705 and 360 million, respectively, shall be reduced to an immaterial amount, and the bank guarantee guarantying their commitment will be returned to them, if they each gain a 7% market share in the private sector within 5 years), caused a substantial decrease of prices made by all competitors, including us. As a result and in an attempt to increase customers acquisition rate and gain market share, Golan and Hot Mobile have offered even lower tariffs and free of charge Unlimited Packages for a limited period of time (up to four months), which were matched by other operators in the fourth quarter of 2012 and the beginning of 2013. This has led to a materially increased churn rate, price erosion (including due to a substantial transfer of prepaid customers to postpaid pricing plans) and loss of revenues and profitability to us. If tariffs continue to decrease or if services continue to be offered free of charge, those consequences could continue and result in further loss of market share and loss of revenues and profitability. See "Item 4. Information on The Company –B. Business Overview – Competition" for additional details. · annulment or further relaxation of the structural separation imposed on each of the Bezeq and Hot groups (Bezeq being the incumbent landline operator and Hot the incumbent multichannel television provider, both monopolies in their incumbent market and the only groups owning full landline infrastructure in Israel and offering internet infrastructure services to ISP operators, as well as to end-users), more so if not coupled with an effective wholesale landline market, as it will provide these groups a competitive advantage in the sale of bundles of services, including cellular services, and allow them to make more competitive offers than the ones we will be able to make, for example, by cross subsidizing with other services in which they have the capacity to 18 Table of Contents monopolize the market, which may result in a loss of market share by us in the different communications markets in which we operate, including the cellular market. The formation of communications groups in Israel with the regulatory changes already relaxing the structural separation imposed on each of the Bezeq and Hot groups allowed each of the groups to offer a bundle of services. With the competitive focus shifting from individual services to services to families, our dependence on the formation of an effective landline wholesale market, to allow us to include television and internet infrastructure in our offer and be competitive, has been accentuated. A policy paper in relation to the wholesale market of landline services in Israel, published by the Minister of Communications in May 2012, called for the annulment of certain structural limitations currently imposed on the Bezeq and Hot groups (and the consideration of annulling or relaxing others) after an agreement regarding a landline wholesale market is executed between Bezeq or Hot and another operator which has a significant market share, as well as the replacement of Bezeq's regulated fixed tariffs with maximum tariffs. We are negotiating the terms of such wholesale agreement with Bezeq. Partner has already reached some understandings with Bezeq and in February 2013, Xfone Communications, an ILD operator that does not have a significant market share, announced entering a wholesale agreement with Bezeq. Bezeq currently offers a bundle of services, including cellular services, under certain limitations. The bundle of services currently offered by Hot does not include cellular services (other than a bundle of cellular services with ISP services recently offered by its subsidiaries Hot Mobile and Hot-Net) although the Ministry of Communications has already allowed Hot and Hot Mobile to sell and market each other's services and exchange information in 2011 and was considering to annul the structural limitations between them, regardless of the wholesale market agreement. The annulment of structural limitations will allow Bezeq and Hot to offer bundles of services, including cellular services, without limitation and may allow them to take advantage of their nationwide presence to market and sell attractive offers. Bundle offerings have accelerated and are expected to accelerate price erosion in each of the services included. With each of the groups having an interest not to erode the prices of its core business, but rather that of its competitors, such erosion is especially expected in those services which are not the core services of the Bezeq and Hot groups. See "Item 4. Information on The Company –B. Business Overview – The Communications Market in Israel - Communications Groups – Structural Separation", "Competition", "Nevision - ISP Business - Competition" and "Nevision - Telephony Business – Competition" for additional details. · continued transfer of subscribers to Unlimited Packages with lower ARPU, as it increases price erosion and reduces revenues and profitability for us as well as encourages significantly increased usage of the services included therein. Increased data traffic on our network requires us to make substantial investments in the upgrade of our networks to sustain the demand. See also "We may be adversely affected by the significant technological and other changes in the cellular communications industry" below. · continued increased competition in the handsets market. Regulatory changes encouraging the entry of additional players to this market, coupled with the prohibition on any linkage between a cellular services transaction and handsets purchase transaction, resulted in increased competition and substantially reduced handset sales for us. Additional prohibition on such linkage, forbidding the offering of airtime rebates or refunds for the handsets, as of 19 Table of Contents January 1, 2013, reduces further our contact points and therefore sale opportunities with our customers as well as reduces their connection to us. This, together with the increased handset purchases elsewhere, may result not only in decreased handset sales, revenues and profitability to us, but may also increase churn and adversely affect our cellular services results of operations. See "Item 4. Information on The Company –B. Business Overview – Competition" for additional details. · increased usage of competing technologies, applications and services, allowing usage of our network with or without an operator, such as VoC or voice over IP, or VoIP or other technologies, such as WiFi, more so following the increased usage of smart phones, tablets and laptops. Under an amendment to the Communications Law enacted in December 2010, any limitation or blocking of internet based services or applications is forbidden, including by differentiating pricing. · Pursuant to the Israeli Restrictive Trade Practices Law, 1988, if the Anti Trust Commissionaire decides that the Israeli cellular market is oligopolistic, the Director General will have the authority to give instructions to all or some of the participants in our market, in order, among others, to maintain or increase the competition level among the participants, including the authority to issue orders to remove or to ease entry or transfer barriers, to cease a participant's activity, or otherwise regulate the activities of the market. We are facing substantial organizational and personnel changes In light of the dramatic changes in our market during 2012 (see "-We face intense competition in all aspects of our business" above and "Item 4. Information on the Company - B. Business Overview –Competition", for additional details) which led to a decrease in our net income, operating profit and EBITDA by 35.6%, 30.7% and 19.1%, respectively, in comparison to 2011, we have made substantial changes in order to adjust our group's operations to the changing market conditions and mitigate the adverse effects. The changes implemented included aggressive reduction of head count, reduction and integration of units, adjustment of procedures, reduction of expenses and investments (see "Item 4. Information on the Company – A. History and Development of the Company – 2012: a year of radical adverse changes", for additional details). Additional substantial organizational and personnel changes are required in order for us to continue our efforts to mitigate the progressing adverse effects of the changing market conditions. Although to date, those measures did not have a negative effect on our operations, such major changes carry risks and may result in loss of the group's and specifically management's focus, loss of knowledge, dissatisfaction of our employees, and an adverse impact on our services and customer service quality, all of which may lead to damage to our reputation, increased churn by our customers and loss of market share, loss of revenues and reduced profitability for us. We could be subject to legal claims due to the inability of our information systems to fully support our pricing plans. In order to attract and retain the maximum number of subscribers in our highly competitive market, we design specific pricing plans to suit the various preferences of our types of subscribers such as individuals, families or businesses. We require sophisticated information systems to accurately record subscriber usage pursuant to the particular terms of each subscriber’s plan as well as accurate database management and operation of a very large 20 Table of Contents number of pricing plans. From time to time, we have detected some discrepancies between certain pricing plans and the information processed by our internal information systems, such as applying an incorrect rebate or applying an incorrect tariff to a service resulting in a higher charge. We have invested substantial resources to refine and improve our information and control systems and ensure that our new pricing plans are appropriately processed by our information systems; we have also taken steps to remedy the identified discrepancies and have established reserves where the discrepancies are quantifiable. Despite our substantial investments, we may experience discrepancies in the future due to the multiplicity of our plans, the frequent changes to our licenses and relevant legislation governing our pricing plans and the scope of the processing tasks. Following our merger with Netvision and the offering of bundles of services of both companies, billing our customers involves information systems of both companies and increases the possibility of errors. Further, while we invest substantial efforts in monitoring our employees and third-party distributors and dealers that market our services, it is possible that some of our employees, distributors or dealers may offer terms and make (or fail to make) representations to existing and prospective subscribers that do not fully conform to applicable law, our licenses or the terms of our pricing plans. As a result of these discrepancies, we may be subject to subscribers’ claims, including class action claims, and substantial sanctions for breach of our licenses or the applicable laws and regulations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations. Further, frequent and multiple changes to our general license and relevant legislation require ongoing changes to our operations, pricing plans and supporting information systems. Such changes increase the risk that our employees, distributors and dealers and our information systems will not fully support such changes. As of January 1, 2013, each discrepancy from the customer's pricing plan, remedied after the customer complained, shall award the customer with predefined damages in an insignificant amount, but may aggregate to substantial amounts if paid to numerous customers on multiple occasions. We are exposed to, and currently are engaged in, a variety of legal proceedings, including class action lawsuits. We provide services to millions of subscribers on a daily basis. As a result of the scope and magnitude of our operations we are subject to the risk of a large number of lawsuits, including class action suits by consumers and consumer organizations, with respect to billing and other practices, such as customer care practices, marketing, including mass media marketing as well as sending commercial messages to customers, data collection and usage practices, offering practices of products and services, including third parties' products and services. These actions are costly to defend and could result in significant judgments against us. Recent years were characterized by a substantial increase in the number of requests for certification of class actions filed and approved in Israel. In December 2011, a class action was decided against us (we appealed the decision to the Supreme Court in January 2012 and the execution of the judgment was stayed until the appeal is decided). The number of purported class actions filed against us in the last three years amounts to over 50% of all purported class actions filed against us since our inception, thereby increasing our legal exposure and our legal costs in defending against such suits, which as a result may materially and adversely affect our financial results. This trend is expected to continue, encouraged also by amendments to the Consumer Protection Law, stricter policy by regulators, amendments to the Communications Law such as regulating "spam" as well as the growing tendency of adopting comprehensive and burdensome regulation for the telecommunications market. Currently, we are engaged in dozens of purported class action suits as a defendant, many of which are for substantial amounts. Should these requests to certify lawsuits against us as 21 Table of Contents class actions are approved and succeed, this may have a material adverse affect on our financial results. For a summary of certain material legal proceedings against us, see “Item 8 – Financial Information - A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information –Legal Proceedings”. We employ thousands of employees and are therefore subject to the risk of employee lawsuits, including class action suits by employees. We are subject to the risk of intellectual property rights claims against us, including in relation to music, music-related or other content services we purchase from third party content providers. These claims may require us to initiate or defend protracted and costly litigation, regardless of the merits of these claims. If any of these claims succeed, we may be forced to pay damages or may be required to obtain licenses for the infringing product or service. If we cannot obtain all necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, we may be forced to stop using or selling the products and services. We rely on interconnecting telecommunications providers and could be adversely affected if these providers fail to provide these services without disruption and on a consistent basis. Our ability to provide commercially viable telephone services depends upon our ability to interconnect with the telecommunications networks of landline, cellular telephone and international operators in Israel in order to complete calls between our subscribers and parties on a landline or other cellular telephone network, as well as third parties abroad. All landline, cellular telephone and international operators in Israel are required to provide interconnection to, and not to discriminate against, any other licensed telecommunications operator in Israel. We have no control over the quality and timing of the investment and maintenance activities that are necessary for these entities to provide us with interconnection to their respective telecommunications networks. The implementation of number portability requires us to rely further on other providers, since our ability to implement number portability, provide our services and our basic ability to port numbers between operators are dependent on the manner of number portability implementation by interconnecting local operators. The failure of these or other telecommunications providers to provide reliable interconnections to us on a consistent basis could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our operations are dependent on complex technology and information systems. Our operations are dependent on a number of complex technological systems. The offering of bundles of services by us and Netvision, following our merger, increased the number of complex technological systems involved in providing service to our customers. The occurrence of malfunctions in such complex and ever changing and expanding systems is inevitable. A malfunction in any of our systems which severely impacts our ability to provide products and services to our customers, may result in loss of revenues to us, may adversely impact our brand perception and expose us to legal claims, all of which may adversely affect our results of operations. In December 2010 we suffered a major network malfunction, following which we decided to grant our subscribers a substantial refund and were also sued for substantial amounts of purported damages. For additional details regarding the lawsuits filed against us in that regard see note 29 to our consolidated financial report for 2012 included elsewhere in this annual report. 22 Table of Contents Our operations are dependant on various information systems. The unauthorized entry to or disruption of operation of these information systems, including due to cyber attacks, may result in damage to us and our customers. Such damages could include our inability to provide certain services without disruptions, if at all, our inability to bill for services rendered or loss of data to us and our customers, all of which may expose us to legal claims and liabilities. There are certain restrictions in our licenses relating to the ownership of our shares. Our cellular license restricts ownership of our ordinary shares and who can serve as our directors as follows: · our founding shareholder, Discount Investment Corporation Ltd., or DIC (or its transferee or transferees, if approved in advance by the Ministry of Communications as “founding shareholders”), must own at least 26% of each of our means of control; · Israeli citizens and residents among our founding shareholders (or their approved transferees) must own at least 20% of our outstanding share capital and each of our other means of control (DIC has agreed to comply with this requirement); · a majority of our directors must be Israeli citizens and residents; · at least 20% of our directors must be appointed by Israeli citizens and residents among our founding shareholders; and · we are required to have a committee of our Board of Directors that deals with matters relating to state security, which must be comprised of at least four directors (including an external director) having the requisite security clearance by Israel’s General Security Service. If these requirements are not complied with, we could be found to be in breach of our license and our license could be changed, suspended or revoked. In addition, our license provides that, without the approval of the Ministry of Communications, no person may acquire or dispose of shares representing 10% or more of our outstanding share capital. Further, our directors and officers and any holder of ordinary shares representing 5% or more of our outstanding share capital may not own 5% or more of Bezeq or any of our competitors or serve as a director or officer of such a company, subject to certain exceptions which require the prior approval of the Ministry of Communications. To ensure that an unauthorized acquisition of our shares would not jeopardize our license, our articles of association provide that any shares acquired without approval required under our license will not be entitled to voting rights. If our service is to be determined by the Israeli Government to be an “essential service”, the Prime Minister and the Ministry of Communications could impose additional limitations including a heightened requirement of Israeli ownership of our ordinary shares. Although our articles of association contain certain provisions that are aimed at reducing the risk that holdings or transfers of our ordinary shares will contravene our license, 23 Table of Contents we cannot entirely control these and other matters required by our license, the violation of which could be a basis for suspending or revoking our license. Our other licenses and Netvision's licenses contain similar restrictions, with the Ministry of Communications' approval required for the transfer of shares representing 5% or more of our (or Netvision, as the case may be) outstanding share capital. See also “Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview – Government Regulations ― Our Principal License” and “Other Licenses” and "Item 4. Information on The Company – B. Business Overview – Netvision". We may be adversely affected by the significant technological and other changes in the cellular communications industry. The telecommunications market is known for rapid and significant technological changes and requires ongoing investments in advanced technologies in order to remain competitive. In recent years we have witnessed a growing demand for Internet, content and data through advanced third generation cellular phones, smartphones, modems, tablets and other devices using cellular data that resulted in a rapid growth of data traffic on cellular networks and required cellular operators to upgrade their networks to accord such demand. Transfer of subscribers to Unlimited Packages of services, MVNO hosting services and national roaming on our network, have contributed to the substantially growing demand for data traffic on our network, as well as to voice and text messages. We estimate that data traffic will grow even faster in the future and some operators have taken steps aimed at reducing data usage by their subscribers, including by transferring traffic to free alternative networks. To answer the growing demand for cellular data traffic, we would be required, among others, to continue our investment in upgrading both our cellular and our transmission network as well as invest in advanced technologies such as 4G cellular technologies (Long Term Evolution, or LTE), which will allow larger capacity and higher data speed rates. Although we are constantly upgrading our networks and have been building our LTE readiness, should we decide to build an LTE network, it would require additional substantial investments and the allocation of frequencies for an LTE network. Such allocation to us is not guaranteed, when required or at all (including in light of prior preference given by the Ministry of Communications to new and small competitors in the allocation of additional UMTS frequencies at the September 2010 tender and the limited amount of available frequencies as well as the uncertainties relating to the government's position with respect to the provision of 4G services in Israel), and there is no certainty as to the cost of frequencies, if and when allocated to us. Inability to receive additional frequencies in a timely manner to meet our needs or at all and specifically if LTE frequencies are allocated to our competitors and not to us or allocated to us under less favorable terms than to our competitors could impair our ability to compete and may require us to cease offering certain products and/or services we currently offer and/or change their terms and conditions and/or make substantial unplanned investments, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. If we cannot obtain or maintain favorable roaming arrangements, our services may be less attractive or less profitable. We rely on agreements to provide roaming capabilities to our subscribers in many areas outside Israel. As of December 31, 2012, we had roaming arrangements with 545 cellular providers in 179 countries around the world. However, we cannot control the quality of the service that they provide and it may be inferior to the quality of service that we provide. Equally, our subscribers may not be able to use some of the advanced features that they enjoy when making calls on our network. Some of our competitors may be able to obtain lower roaming rates than we do because they may have larger call volumes. If our 24 Table of Contents competitors’ providers can deliver a higher quality or a more cost effective roaming service, then subscribers may migrate to those competitors and our results of operation could be adversely affected. Further, we may not be able to compel providers to participate in our technology migration and enhancement strategies. As a result, our ability to implement technological innovations could be adversely affected if these overseas providers are unable or unwilling to cooperate with the further development of our network or if they cease to provide services comparable to those we offer on our network. Following European Union regulation of roaming tariffs, which reduced tariffs for calls made by members of the European Union among themselves, several European Union member operators have raised roaming tariffs for calls to and from non-European Union member operators, resulting in higher roaming tariffs, and in other roaming agreements roaming tariffs for our subscribers have decreased. In addition, in August 2008, the Israeli Government adopted a resolution to negotiate a reduction of inbound and outbound roaming tariffs with the European Union and/or members of the European Union or countries frequently visited by Israelis. In January 2012, the Ministry of Communications requested us to provide information in relation to our roaming services and in January 2013, published a hearing proposing restrictions on roaming services provision. For further details see "We operate in a heavily regulated industry, which can harm our results of operations" above. If roaming tariffs continue to decrease including as a result of the proposed negotiation or otherwise and/or if additional European Union member operators raise their tariffs and/or if we are not able to raise our tariffs or otherwise compensate for the higher roaming expenses, this could adversely affect our profitability and results of operations. Our substantial debt increases our exposure to market risks, may limit our ability to incur additional debt that may be necessary to fund our operations and could adversely affect our financial stability; Regulatory change, market terms and our financial results may affect our possibilities to raise debt. As of December 31, 2012, our total indebtedness was approximately NIS 6,507 million ($1,743 million), with our net debt at approximately NIS 4,557 million ($1,221 million). For additional details see "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects. – B. Liquidity and Capital resources – General". The indentures governing our debentures currently permit us to incur additional indebtedness. Our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial condition by, among other things: · increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or business conditions, including increases in the Israeli Consumer Prices Index, or CPI; · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our industry and the economy in general; · requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, thus reducing the funds available for operations and future business development; and · limiting our ability to obtain, or resulting in less favorable terms and pricing for, additional financing to operate, develop and expand our business or for refinancing existing debt. In October 2010, the Commissioner of Capital Markets, Insurance and Savings in the Ministry of Finance published a circular instructing institutional investors to follow certain 25 Table of Contents procedures and requirements before investing in non-governmental debentures, including a requirement to verify that certain contractual provisions are included in the indentures of the invested debentures, and to establish a policy for investment in such debentures which will relate among other matters to repayment acceleration rights. These procedures and requirements may adversely affect our possibilities of raising debt from Israeli institutional investors as well as the terms and price of such debt raising. Following these procedures, in 2012 we amended our shelf prospectus to include new limitations and covenants, including a covenant not to issue additional debentures if it involves a rating downgrade, certain financial covenants, negative pledge, cross default, limitation on the distribution of dividends, obligation to pay additional interest in case of certain rating downgrade. These new limitations already apply to our series F and G debentures issued in March 2012 and may apply to any additional debt raising by us. For details regarding such limitations and covenants see "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects. – B. Liquidity and Capital resources – Debt Service – Shelf Prospectus". These limitations and covenants limit our freedom to conduct our business, may impose additional costs on us and may limit our ability to raise additional debt. During 2011 and 2012, we suffered a significant decrease in our operating results, following certain regulatory changes, intensified competition and price erosion (For additional details see "Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview –Competition" and "-Government Regulations - Tariff supervision", "-Mobile Virtual Network Operators" and "-Additional UMTS Operators") whereas our net debt has increased substantially (from approximately NIS 3,334 million as of December 31, 2010 to approximately NIS 4,557 million as of December 31, 2012). For additional details see "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects. – B. Liquidity and Capital resources – Debt Service". In May 2012, the rating of our debentures was downgraded due to increased leverage and competitive pressure. In November 2012, the rating company reaffirmed that rating. This and any further downgrade in our rating, and any adverse change in our financial results, including any increase in our net leverage (defined in our amended shelf prospectus as the ratio of net debt to EBITDA during a period of 12 consecutive months, excluding onetime influences) may adversely affect the terms and price of debt raising, particularly through the issuance of debentures to institutional investors, which, given the limitation on the ability of Israeli banks to lend money to us pursuant to the “Guidelines for Sound Bank Administration” issued by the Israeli Supervisor of Banks (as we are a member of IDB’s group of borrowers), may limit our ability to obtain additional financing to operate, develop and expand our business or to refinance existing debt. See also the Concentration Committee's recommendations under "Risks Relating to Our Ordinary Shares - Pending legislation in Israel affecting corporate conglomerates, if enacted, could adversely affect us" below, which if adopted and implemented, may adversely affect our possibilities of raising debt from Israeli institutional investors. Our business results may be affected by currency fluctuations, by our currency hedging positions and by changes in the Israeli Consumer Price Index A portion of our cash payments are incurred in, or linked to, foreign currencies, mainly U.S. dollars. In particular, in 2010, 2011 and 2012, payments in U.S. dollars or linked to the U.S. dollar represented approximately 33%, 39% and 36%, respectively, of total cash outflow (including payments of principal and interest on our debentures, but excluding one time payments associated with the acquisition of Netvision). These payments included capital expenditures, some of our operating lease payments and payments to equipment suppliers 26 Table of Contents including handset suppliers. As almost all of our cash receipts are in NIS, any devaluation of the NIS against those foreign currencies in which we make payments, particularly the U.S. dollar, will increase the NIS cost of our foreign currency denominated or linked expenses and capital expenditures. Furthermore, since the principal amount of and interest that we pay on our Series B, C, D and F debentures, are linked to the Israeli CPI, any increase in the Israeli CPI will increase our financing expenses and could adversely affect our results of operations. See "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – B. Liquidity and Capital Resources – Debt Service – Public Debentures" for details. We purchase derivative financial instruments in order to hedge part of the foreign currency risks, CPI risks deriving from our operations and indebtedness. Derivatives are initially recognized at fair value. Changes in the fair value are accounted for such that: Changes in the fair value of derivative hedging instruments designated as a cash flow hedge are recognized directly as a component of our shareholders’ equity to the extent that the hedge is effective. To the extent that the hedge is ineffective, changes in fair value are recognized in our income statement as the hedged item affects earnings. The amount recognized in shareholders’ equity is transferred to our income statement in the same period that the hedged item affects our earnings. Notwithstanding the above, hedge accounting is not applied to derivative instruments that economically hedge monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. Changes in the fair value of such derivatives are recognized through our income statement upon occurrence. These differences in the derivative instruments' designation could result in fluctuations in our reported net income on a quarterly basis. We may not be able to fulfill our dividend policy in the future; implementation of our dividend policy will significantly reduce our future cash reserves. In February 2006, we adopted a dividend policy targeting a payout ratio of at least 75% of our net income in each calendar year, subject to any applicable law, our license and contractual obligations and provided that such distribution would not be detrimental to our cash needs or to any plans approved by our Board of Directors. The 2012 amendment to our shelf prospectus, under which we have raised additional debt in March 2012, contains a covenant not to distribute more than 95% of the profits available for distribution according to the Israeli Companies Law (“Profits”). Moreover, under the 2012 amendment, if our net leverage (defined as the ratio of net debt to EBITDA during a period of 12 consecutive months, excluding certain one time effects) exceeds 3.5:1, we may not distribute more than 85% of our Profits and if our net leverage exceeds 4.0:1, we may not distribute more than 70% of our Profits. For additional details see "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – B. Liquidity and Capital Resources – Debt Service – Shelf Prospectus". In addition, our license requires that we and our 10% or more shareholders maintain at least $200 million of combined shareholders’ equity. Dividend payments are not guaranteed and our Board of Directors may decide, in its absolute discretion, at any time and for any reason, not to pay dividends or to pay dividends at a ratio to net income that is less than that paid in the past. In 2010 and 2011 our Board of Directors declared dividends constituting as much as 95% of our net income and in some cases, part of our retained earnings from earlier periods as well. In respect of 2012, a dividend was declared for the first quarter only, constituting 75% of our net income, whereas for the second, third and fourth quarters, our board of directors chose not to declare dividends, given the intensified competition and substantial changes in pricing and their adverse effect on our results of operations and in order to 27 Table of Contents strengthen our balance sheet. See “Item 8. Financial Information - A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information - Dividend Policy”. Our dividend policy, to the extent implemented, will significantly reduce our future cash reserves and may adversely affect our ability to fund unexpected capital expenditures. As a result, we may be required to borrow additional money or raise capital by issuing equity securities, which may not be possible on attractive terms or at all. If we are unable to fulfill our dividend policy, or pay dividends at levels anticipated by investors in our shares, the market price of our shares may be negatively affected and the value of our investors’ investment may be reduced. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for key equipment and services. We depend upon a small number of suppliers to provide us with key equipment and services. For example, Nokia Siemens Israel provides our network system based on GSM/GPRS/EDGE technology, our UMTS/HSPA core system, part of our radio access network and related products and services, and our landline New Generation Network system, or NGN system; LM Ericsson Israel supplies part of our radio access network and related products and services based on UMTS/HSPA technology; Amdocs Israel provides us with services with respect to the operating of, and the implementation of developments to our billing system; Alcatel Lucent provides our Carrier Ethernet network and SDH equipment for our transmission network; and Be’eri Printers provides our printing supplies and invoices as well as the distribution, packaging and delivery of invoices and other mail to the postal service distribution centers. In addition, we lease a small portion of our transmission capacity from Bezeq, the incumbent landline operator. Should an effective landline wholesale market materialize, we may acquire services from Bezeq and Hot in order to provide internet infrastructure and IPTV to our customers at competitive prices, in which case we would be dependent on Bezeq and Hot for such services. Bezeq has experienced labor disputes, including stoppages, during the privatization process and liberalization of the landline market, and additional disruptions, stoppages and slowdowns may be experienced in the future. If these suppliers fail to provide equipment or services to us on the requisite standards of quality and on a timely basis, we may be unable to provide services to our subscribers in an optimal manner until an alternative source can be found, which may result in loss of customers by us and our license may be at risk of revocation for failure to satisfy the required service standards. In addition, our handset sales have been dominated in recent years by Apple and Samsung products, representing over half of our handset sales. See "Item 4. Information on the Company - B. Business Overview - Handsets" for additional details. Should any of theses suppliers (Samsung through its official importer to Israel – Suny Communications (1994) Ltd., or Suny, an affiliate of Scailex Corporation Ltd., or Scailex, which is one of Partner's controlling shareholders) refuse to sell handsets to us or condition such sales on unfavorable terms and condition to us or provide our competitors more favorable terms and conditions, or if these suppliers fail to produce successful and desirable products and no equivalent alternatives will then be available, this could have a material adverse effect on our handset sales and results of operations. 28 Table of Contents We are a member of the IDB group of companies, one of Israel’s largest and highly regulated business groups. This may limit our ability to expand our business, to acquire other businesses or raise debt. We are an indirect subsidiary of IDB, one of Israel’s largest and highly regulated business groups. IDB included in its financial statements for the second and third quarters of 2012 a note regarding the existence of significant doubts as to its ability to continue as a going concern due to its liquidity condition. IDB and its debentures holders are currently negotiating proposed outlines for strengthening the financial base of IDB through, among other things, a debt restructuring. As a result of IDB's agreements with its debenture holders, certain events or actions in the IDB group would require IDB either to obtain the approval of the trustees of the debenture holders, or in certain circumstances (including material events or actions in us) to provide advance notice to the trustees. IDB Development included in its financial statements for the second and third quarters of 2012 a note calling attention to its financial condition and to certain restrictions and covenants that, among other things, limit its ability to raise capital. IDB Development's debenture holders are currently considering to take measures against IDB Development, including the possibility to propose a debt restructuring without the cooperation and participation of the current controlling shareholders of IDB. These negotiations and other events that relate to IDB and IDB Development may lead to a change of control of the IDB group. We are unable to predict the outcome of such negotiations, measures and events or the effect on us from any debt restructure that may be implemented. As such, IDB's financial condition could have an adverse effect on our debentures rating and our ability to raise additional debt or the terms of any debt offering that we may effect. In addition, pursuant to the “Guidelines for Sound Bank Administration” issued by the Israeli Supervisor of Banks, the amount that an Israeli bank may lend to one group of borrowers and to each of the six largest borrowers of such banking corporation is limited. Since we are a member of IDB’s group of borrowers, these guidelines may limit the ability of Israeli banks to lend money to us. Due to the limited size of the Israeli market and due to the high level of regulation of the Israeli market, in particular in the communications market, our being a member of the IDB group of companies may limit our ability to expand our business in the future, to form joint ventures and strategic alliances and conduct other strategic transactions with other participants in the Israeli communications market. See also the Concentration Committee's recommendations under "Risks Relating to Our Ordinary Shares - Pending legislation in Israel affecting corporate conglomerates, if enacted, could adversely affect us" below, which if adopted and implemented, may have an adverse effect on our business. We are controlled by a single shareholder who can significantly influence matters requiring shareholders’ approval. As of February 15, 2013, DIC held, directly and indirectly, approximately 41.91% of our outstanding share capital. Pursuant to shareholders agreements among DIC and certain of our minority shareholders, who in the aggregate own approximately 3.43% of our ordinary shares, DIC has been granted the voting rights in respect of those shares. In addition to DIC’s shareholdings and such additional voting rights, it has the right to appoint the 20% of our directors that we are required by our license and articles of association to have appointed by Israeli citizens and residents among our founding shareholders. Accordingly, subject to legal limitations, DIC has control (as the term "control" is defined in the Israeli Securities Law; namely the ability to direct a company's activities) over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election and removal of our directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership could delay or prevent proxy contests, mergers, tender offers, open-market purchase programs or other purchases of our ordinary shares that might otherwise give our shareholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for our ordinary shares. Further, as a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from the application of the NYSE rules requiring the majority of the members of our Board of Directors to be independent. 29 Table of Contents Accordingly, our minority shareholders and debenture holders are denied the protection intended to be afforded by such corporate governance standards. Risks Related to our wholly owned subsidiary Netvision Changes in the regulatory environment could adversely affect Netvision's business. Netvision is subject to regulation of its ongoing operations and could therefore be significantly impacted by decisions of regulators, changes in laws, regulations or government policy affecting its business activities. The uncertainties and risks surrounding the regulatory framework of the Israeli telecommunications market, some of which we are currently unable to foresee or assess, could negatively affect Netvision's business and prospects. Netvision's operations in ISP services, landline telephony and international calling services are highly regulated. A change in the competitive structure of the market or a change in the regulation on structural separation of different types of services may adversely affect Netvision's results of operations and its ability to compete with other large players in the market, such as Bezeq and Hot. The annulment of Early Termination Fees in the landline and ISP markets in November 2011 has increased competition as it has eliminated transfer barriers and resulted in increased churn rate and gross recruitment of subscribers and price erosion. A policy paper in relation to the wholesale market of landline services in Israel, published by the Minister of Communications in May 2012, called for the annulment of certain structural limitations currently imposed on the Bezeq and Hot groups (and the consideration of annulling or relaxing others), following the execution of a wholesale agreement with another operator which has a significant market share. We are negotiating the terms of such wholesale agreement with Bezeq. Partner has already reached some understandings with Bezeq and in February 2013, Xfone Communications, an ILD operator, that does not have a significant market share, announced entering a wholesale agreement with Bezeq. See "Item 4. Information on the Company - Competition". Permitting telecommunications companies to offer bundled services, annulment of structural separation and Bezeq's tariffs supervision may have a material adverse effect on Netvision's results of operation by enabling increased competition in the markets in which Netvision operates, specifically by approaching Netvision's customers in the ISP and landline markets which are Bezeq or Hot's customers in the internet infrastructure market. Moreover, it could specifically give a competitive edge to Bezeq and Hot, whose existing infrastructure and ability to offer bundled services may significantly harm Netvision's competitive position to provide its customers with landline telephony, ISP services and international telephony. Bezeq and Hot have the advantage of owning their own infrastructure and the ability to offer landline, international telephony and ISP services, as well as multichannel television independently of any third party support, unlike Netvision. Bezeq and Hot offer bundles of services under certain conditions. Annulment of these conditions and the structural separation, would provide Bezeq and Hot with an advantage over other service providers such as Netvision that do not own their own infrastructure. Further, the offering of services by the Bezeq and Hot groups at tariffs significantly lower than prevailing market tariffs or at prices even lower than our costs for these services, such as by cross subsidizing with other services in which they have the capacity to monopolize the market, could also significantly harm Netvision's competitive position as it could decrease demand for Netvision's services or lead Netvision to offer its services at a loss. Further, as Netvision is dependant on Bezeq and Hot's infrastructure to provide its services on the one hand, and is competing with them on the provision of ISP, ILD and landline services to end-users, on the other hand, price erosion of ISP services would lead to increased demand for greater bandwidth and would require Netvision to significantly increase the capacity it purchases, significantly increasing its 30 Table of Contents expenses in purchasing capacity from Bezeq and Hot, while its revenues would be decreasing. This could also have a material adverse effect on Netvision's results of operations. In February 2012, Hot began offering ISP services and has done so at tariffs significantly lower than prevailing market prices and Bezeq also significantly lowered its internet infrastructure services tariffs to end-users. This has led to a significant decrease of ISP tariffs. Netvision believes there is cause for regulatory intervention and has appealed to the regulators to intervene, but cannot predict the outcome of such appeals. See "Item 4. Information on The Company –B. Business Overview – The Communications Market in Israel - Communications Groups – Structural Separation", "Competition" and "Nevision - ISP Business - Competition" and "Nevision - Telephony Business – Competition". The entry of Hot Mobile and Golan into the ILD market in the second half of 2012 and the beginning of 2013, respectively, could also have an adverse effect on Netvision's results of operations, as customers (specifically their cellular customers) may choose their ILD services over Netvision's. For further details see "We face intense competition in all aspects of our business” above. In addition, the Ministry of Communications published in November 2011 a hearing about proposed regulation of the underwater international telecommunications connection from Israel, proposing certain limitations on the agreements with Mediterranean Nautilus Ltd. and Mediterranean Nautilus (Israel) Ltd., or collectively Med Nautilus, Netvision's provider, which would, among others, limit the discounts and capacity Med Nautilus may provide. Further, Bezeq International, one of Netvision's main competitors in the ILD and ISP markets, has deployed an underwater cable in December 2011. Adoption of such changes and the deployment of such cable by a Netvision competitor may harm Netvision's results of operations and competitive position as it would force Netvision to purchase capacity at less favorable prices, and more so in comparison to its competitor which is a Bezeq affiliate. Netvision is exposed to risks relating to network infrastructure and information systems and is dependent on services it receives from its external suppliers; Integration of Netvision's information systems may cause us operating difficulties and expenditures. Netvision does not own an independent network for providing the services it offers to its customers. Therefore, Netvision is dependent on its infrastructure providers, such as Med Nautilus, which provides underwater international telecom connections, and Bezeq and Hot, which provide broadband connectivity and wireline infrastructure. In some cases, these providers are virtually the sole providers of such infrastructure and cannot be replaced. Should a landline wholesale market materialize, Netvision's dependency on Bezeq and Hot would increase, as Netvision would need to acquire additional services from them for the provision of internet infrastructure, as well as for the provision of IPTV services at competitive prices to its customers. Netvision is also dependent on foreign telecommunications operators for its international ISP and telephony communications. Therefore, termination or amendment of terms of an agreement with any of the infrastructure providers or with some of the foreign operators at once, disruption in or refusal to provide such infrastructure services, as well as regulatory changes affecting the terms of infrastructure services that Netvision receives, may have a material adverse affect on Netvision's ability to provide its services to customers or the profitability of providing such services. Netvision's operations are dependant on various information systems. The unauthorized entry to or disruption of operation of these information systems, including due 31 Table of Contents to cyber attacks, may result in damage to Netvision and its customers, including due to inability to provide certain services or provide them with disruptions or inability to bill for services rendered, loss of data of Netvision or that of its customers stored with Netvision, all of which may expose Netvision to legal claims and liabilities. Further, any successful attacks on Netvisions' customers' information systems, protected by Netvision's data security products, may also expose Netvision to legal claims and liability. Our merger with Netvision and the offering of bundles of services provided by both companies, increased the number of information systems involved in the billing process of our customers as well as the duplication of other information systems used by the companies, resulting in some cases in cumbersome procedures, inefficient usage of resources and lack of uniformity. The process of integrating Netvision's information systems into our information systems may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and large expenditures and may require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for our ongoing business. Further, the replacement of systems or change of processes may result in substantial malfunctions in our sales and retention activities, errors in billings or other processes, which may lead to loss of revenues, legal claims and regulatory sanctions. Alternate technology may cause a decline in Netvision's international calling services. In recent years there has been a decline in use of international calling services through international operators such as Netvision. This is due to, among other things, the development of alternate technologies, such as VoIP, which enable international calls without the services of international operators. These technologies also pose an alternative to landline communications. If this trend continues and alternate technologies improve or if new ones are developed, the competition in the market will increase, which may have a material adverse effect on Netvision's results of operations. Risks Relating to Operating in Israel We conduct our operations in Israel and therefore our results may be adversely affected by political, economic and military instability in Israel. Our operations, our network and some of our suppliers are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel may directly affect our business. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade within Israel or between Israel and its trading partners could adversely affect our operations and could make it more difficult for us to raise capital. Since September 2000, there has been a high level of violence between Israel and the Palestinians. Hamas, an Islamist movement responsible for many attacks, including missile strikes, against Israelis, won the majority of the seats in the Parliament of the Palestinian Authority in January 2006 and took control of the entire Gaza Strip by force in June 2007. Hamas has launched hundreds of missiles from the Gaza Strip against Israeli population centers, disrupting day-to-day civilian life in southern Israel. This led to an armed conflict between Israel and the Hamas during December 2008 and January 2009 and continued sporadic missile launching from the Gaza strip to Israel. thereafter, In November 2012 there was another armed conflict, involving attacks by hundreds of missiles fired from the Gaza Strip against the Israeli population centers throughout the southern half of Israel and up to and including Tel-Aviv. A substantial part of our network and information systems is located within range of missile strikes from the Gaza Strip and Lebanon. Any damage to our network 32 Table of Contents and/or information systems would damage our ability to provide service, in whole or in part, in the southern or northern part of Israel or otherwise damage our operation and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. More generally, any armed conflicts, terrorist activities or political instability in the region would likely negatively affect business conditions and could harm our results of operations, including following termination of such conflicts, due to a decrease in the number of tourists visiting Israel. At the end of 2010 and during 2011 and 2012 several countries in the region, including Egypt and Syria, have been experiencing increased political instability, which led to change in government in some of these countries (including Egypt), the effects of which are currently difficult to assess. In addition, Iran has threatened to attack Israel and is widely believed to be developing nuclear weapons. Iran is also believed to have a strong influence among extremist groups in areas that neighbor Israel, such as Hamas in Gaza and Hezbollah in Lebanon. This situation may potentially escalate in the future to violent events which may affect Israel and us. In addition, in the event that the State of Israel relinquishes control over certain territories currently held by it to the Palestinian Authority, we will not be able to provide service from our cell sites located in Israeli populated areas and on connecting roads in these territories. This may result in the loss of subscribers and revenues and in a decrease in our market share. Our freedom and ability to conduct our operations may be limited during periods of national emergency. The Communications Law grants the Prime Minister of Israel the authority, for reasons of state security or public welfare, to order a telecommunications license holder to provide services to security forces, to perform telecommunications activities or to establish a telecommunications facility as may be required for the security forces to carry out their duties. Further, the Israeli Equipment Registration and IDF Mobilization Law, 1987, also permits the registration of engineering equipment and facilities and the taking thereof for the use of the Israel Defense Forces. This law further sets the payment for use and compensation for damages caused to the operator as a result of such taking. Our general license also permits the Israeli Government, during national emergencies or for reasons of national security, to take all necessary actions in order to ensure state security, including taking control of our network, and requires us to cooperate with such actions. If national emergency situations arise in the future and if we are to be subject during such time to any of the foregoing actions, this could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and provide services during such national emergencies and adversely affect our business operations. Our other licenses and Netvision's licenses (excluding our ISP licenses) contain similar restrictions. See also “Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business Overview – Government Regulations ― Our Principal License” and “Other Licenses” "Item 4. Information on The Company – B. Business Overview – Netvision". Provisions of Israeli law and our license may delay, prevent or impede an acquisition of us, which could prevent a change of control. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. For example, a merger may not be completed unless at least 50 33 Table of Contents days have passed from the date that a merger proposal was filed by each merging company with the Israel Registrar of Companies and at least 30 days from the date that the shareholders of both merging companies approved the merger. In addition, a majority of each class of securities of the target company is required to approve a merger. Further, the provisions of our license require the prior approval of the Ministry of Communications for changes of control in our Company. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to us or to our shareholders whose country of residence does not have a tax treaty with Israel exempting such shareholders from Israeli tax. For example, Israeli tax law does not recognize tax-free share exchanges to the same extent as U.S. tax law. With respect to mergers, Israeli tax law allows for tax deferral in certain circumstances but makes the deferral contingent on the fulfillment of numerous conditions, including a holding period of two years from the date of the transaction during which sales and dispositions of shares of the participating companies are restricted. Moreover, with respect to certain share swap transactions, the tax deferral is limited in time, and when the time expires, tax then becomes payable even if no actual disposition of the shares has occurred. These provisions could delay, prevent or impede an acquisition of us, even if such an acquisition would be considered beneficial by some of our shareholders. Risks Relating to Our Ordinary Shares A substantial number of our ordinary shares could be sold into the public market, which could depress our share price. Our largest shareholder, DIC, holds approximately 41.91% of our outstanding ordinary shares, as of February 15, 2013. The market price of our ordinary shares could decline as a result of future sales by DIC or other existing shareholders or the perception that these sales could occur. DIC sold approximately 5% of our outstanding shares outside the United States in 2011 and approximately 1.7% of our outstanding shares in February 2013. Sales may be made pursuant to a registration statement, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC pursuant to the terms of a registration rights agreement or otherwise, or in reliance on an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, including the exemptions provided by Rule 144 or Regulation S. Any decline in our share price could also make it difficult for us to raise additional capital by selling shares. In addition, under our option plan, options are subject to vesting schedules but vesting will be accelerated upon certain events including any sale or other disposition, of all or substantially all, of the outstanding shares of us. As of December 31, 2012 we had 3,019,152 shares reserved for issuance upon the exercise of options. In March 2013, our board of directors resolved to grant an additional 75,000 options. See "Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employment – E. Share Ownership – 2006 Share Incentive Plan". Pending legislation in Israel affecting corporate conglomerates, if enacted, could adversely affect us. In July 2012, a bill for the promotion of competition and the mitigation of concentration of the Israeli market, sponsored by the Israeli government, passed the first stage of enactment by the Israeli parliament. The bill incorporates most of the recommendations of the public committee for the enhancement of competition and the maintenance of the financial stability of the Israeli economy, or the Concentration Committee's, final recommendations, published in March 2012. The bill includes the 34 Table of Contents following main provisions: (1) impose limitations on the holdings by a significant real corporation in a significant financial corporation or the holdings of both kinds of corporation under common control; (2) impose limitations on the control over public corporations through a pyramidal structures by imposing a limitation on the number of layers in such pyramidal structures to three for existing structures and two for new structures; (3) strengthen the corporate governance rules applicable to public companies in Israel, and in particular set additional limitations on transactions in which a controlling shareholder has a personal interest, and strengthen the independence of boards of directors of public companies held through pyramidal structures; (4) limit the exposure of financial institutions to issuers, groups of borrowers and the largest borrowers and issuers groups; and (5) require the governmental authorities responsible for the allocation of rights in public assets (including in the communications field) in certain cases to consider competitive and control concentration factors. The bill provides for transition periods of up to six years to implement the new requirements. The IDB group is a pyramidal structure having more than three layers of companies and we are a fourth layer company in the pyramidal structure of the IDB group. The enactment of such legislation could have an adverse effect on us. 