D. Risk factors Some of the following risks relate principally to the industry in which we operate and our business in general. Other risks relate principally to the securities market and ownership of our common stock. The occurrence of any of the events described in this section could significantly and negatively affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash available for dividends or the trading price of our common stock. 8 Industry Specific Risk Factors Charterhire rates for drybulk carriers are volatile and may decrease in the future, which would adversely affect our earnings The drybulk shipping industry is cyclical with attendant volatility in charterhire rates and profitability. The degree of charterhire rate volatility among different types of drybulk carriers varies widely. Charterhire rates for Capesize, Panamax and Supramax drybulk carriers are at their historically high levels. If the drybulk shipping market is depressed in the future our earnings and available cash flow may decrease. Our ability to re-charter our vessels on the expiration or termination of their current time charters and the charter rates payable under any renewal or replacement charters will depend upon, among other things, economic conditions in the drybulk shipping market. Fluctuations in charter rates and vessel values result from changes in the supply and demand for drybulk cargoes carried internationally at sea, including coal, iron, ore, grains and minerals. The factors affecting the supply and demand for vessel capacity are outside of our control, and the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable. The factors that influence demand for vessel capacity include: · demand for and production of drybulk products; · global and regional economic and political conditions; · the distance drybulk cargo is to be moved by sea; and · changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns. The factors that influence the supply of vessel capacity include: · the number of new building deliveries; · port and canal congestion; · the scrapping of older vessels; · vessel casualties; and · the number of vessels that are out of service. We anticipate that the future demand for our drybulk carriers will be dependent upon continued economic growth in the world’s economies, including China and India, seasonal and regional changes in demand, changes in the capacity of the global drybulk carrier fleet and the sources and supply of drybulk cargo to be transported by sea. The capacity of the global drybulk carrier fleet seems likely to increase and economic growth may not continue. Adverse economic, political, social or other developments could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. The market values of our vessels may decrease, which could limit the amount of funds that we can borrow or trigger certain financial covenants under our current or future credit facilities and or we may incur a loss if we sell vessels following a decline in their market value The fair market values of our vessels have generally experienced high volatility. The market prices for secondhand Capesize, Panamax and Supramax drybulk carriers are at historically high levels. The fair market value of our vessels may increase and decrease depending on a number of factors including: · prevailing level of charter rates; · general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry; · types and sizes of vessels; · supply and demand for vessels; · other modes of transportation; · cost of newbuildings; · governmental or other regulations; and · technological advances. 9 In addition, as vessels grow older, they generally decline in value. If the fair market value of our vessels declines, we may not be in compliance with certain provisions of our term loans and we may not be able to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing. In addition, if we sell one or more of our vessels at a time when vessel prices have fallen and before we have recorded an impairment adjustment to our consolidated financial statements, the sale may be less than the vessel’s carrying value on our consolidated financial statements, resulting in a loss and a reduction in earnings. Furthermore, if vessel values fall significantly we may have to record an impairment adjustment in our consolidated financial statements which could adversely affect our financial results. World events could affect our results of operations and financial condition Terrorist attacks in New York on September 11, 2001 and in London on July 7, 2005 and the continuing response of the United States and others to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks in the United States or elsewhere, continues to cause uncertainty in the world’s financial markets and may affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The continuing conflict in Iraq may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our operating results, revenues and costs. Terrorist attacks on vessels, such as the October 2002 attack on the M.V. Limburg, a very large crude carrier not related to us, may in the future also negatively affect our operations and financial condition and directly impact our vessels or our customers. Future terrorist attacks could result in increased volatility of the financial markets in the United States and globally and could result in, or pooling, an economic recession affecting the United States or the entire world. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our revenues and costs. An economic slowdown in the Asia Pacific region could materially reduce the amount and/or profitability of our business A significant number of the port calls made by our vessels involve the loading or discharging of raw materials and semi-finished products in ports in the Asia Pacific region. As a result, a negative change in economic conditions in any Asia Pacific country, particularly in China, may have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations, as well as our future prospects. In particular, in recent years, China has been one of the world’s fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product. Such growth may not be sustained and the Chinese economy may experience contraction in the future. Moreover, any slowdown in the economies of the United States of America, the European Union or certain Asian countries may adversely effect economic growth in China and elsewhere. Our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows as well as our future prospects, will likely be materially and adversely affected by an economic downturn in any of these countries. 10 Changes in the economic and political environment in China and policies adopted by the government to regulate its economy may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, in such respects as structure, government involvement, level of development, growth rate, capital reinvestment, allocation of resources, rate of inflation and balance of payments position. Prior to 1978, the Chinese economy was a planned economy. Since 1978, increasing emphasis has been placed on the utilization of market forces in the development of the Chinese economy. Annual and five year State Plans are adopted by the Chinese government in connection with the development of the economy. Although state-owned enterprises still account for a substantial portion of the Chinese industrial output, in general, the Chinese government is reducing the level of direct control that it exercises over the economy through State Plans and other measures. There is an increasing level of freedom and autonomy in areas such as allocation of resources, production, pricing and management and a gradual shift in emphasis to a “market economy” and enterprise reform. Limited price reforms were undertaken, with the result that prices for certain commodities are principally determined by market forces. Many of the reforms are unprecedented or experimental and may be subject to revision, change or abolition based upon the outcome of such experiments. If the Chinese government does not continue to pursue a policy of economic reform the level of imports to and exports from China could be adversely affected by changes to these economic reforms by the Chinese government, as well as by changes in political, economic and social conditions or other relevant policies of the Chinese government, such as changes in laws, regulations or export and import restrictions, all of which could, adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Charter rates are subject to seasonal fluctuations, which may adversely affect our financial condition and ability to pay dividends As of June 25, 2008, our fleet consists of 11 drybulk carriers comprised of three Capesize, one Panamax and seven Supramax drybulk carriers with an average age of approximately 10 years and a combined cargo carrying capacity of approximately 1.0 million dwt. We have entered into agreements to acquire two additional drybulk vessels for expected delivery to us by July and September of 2008, respectively. We employ all of our vessels on medium-to long-term time charters, however, we may in the future employ certain of our vessels in the spot market. Demand for vessel capacity has historically exhibited seasonal variations and, as a result, in charter rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our operating results for vessels trading in the spot market. The drybulk sector is typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of coal and other raw materials in the northern hemisphere during the winter months. As a result, our revenues from our drybulk carriers may be weaker during the fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30, and, conversely, our revenues from our drybulk carriers may be stronger in fiscal quarters ended December 31 and March 31. Seasonality in the sector in which we operate could materially affect our operating results and cash available for dividends in the future. Rising fuel prices may adversely affect our profits Fuel is a significant, if not the largest, expense in our shipping operations when vessels are not under period charter. Changes in the price of fuel may adversely affect our profitability. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. Further, fuel may become much more expensive in the future, which may reduce the profitability and competitiveness of our business versus other forms of transportation, such as truck or rail. 11 We are subject to international safety regulations and the failure to comply with these regulations may subject us to increased liability, may adversely affect our insurance coverage and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports Our business and the operation of our vessels are materially affected by government regulation in the form of international conventions, national, state and local laws and regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which the vessels operate, as well as in the country or countries of their registration. Because such conventions, laws, and regulations are often revised, we cannot predict the ultimate cost of complying with such conventions, laws and regulations or the impact thereof on the resale prices or useful lives of our vessels. Additional conventions, laws and regulations may be adopted which could limit our ability to do business or increase the cost of our doing business and which may materially adversely affect our operations. We are required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses, certificates, and financial assurances with respect to our operations. The operation of our vessels is affected by the requirements set forth in the United Nations’ International Maritime Organization’s International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and Pollution Prevention, or ISM Code. The ISM Code requires shipowners, ship managers and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive “Safety Management System” that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. The failure of a shipowner or bareboat charterer to comply with the ISM Code may subject it to increased liability, may invalidate existing insurance or decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. If we are subject to increased liability for noncompliance or if our insurance coverage is adversely impacted as a result of noncompliance, we may have less cash available for distribution to our stockholders as dividends. If any of our vessels are denied access to, or are detained in, certain ports, this may decrease our revenues. Increased inspection procedures and tighter import and export controls could increase costs and disrupt our business International shipping is subject to various security and customs inspection and related procedures in countries of origin and destination. Inspection procedures may result in the seizure of contents of our vessels, delays in the loading, offloading or delivery and the levying of customs duties, fines or other penalties against us. It is possible that changes to inspection procedures could impose additional financial and legal obligations on us. Changes to inspection procedures could also impose additional costs and obligations on our customers and may, in certain cases, render the shipment of certain types of cargo uneconomical or impractical. Any such changes or developments may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Maritime claimants could arrest one or more of our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a claimant may seek to obtain security for its claim by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay large sums of money to have the arrest or attachment lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could attempt to assert “sister ship” liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another of our vessels. 12 Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in a loss of earnings A government could requisition one or more of our vessels for title or for hire. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes her owner, while requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes her charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during periods of war or emergency, although governments may elect to requisition vessels in other circumstances. Although we would be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition of one or more of our vessels, the amount and timing of payment would be uncertain. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels may negatively impact our revenues and reduce the amount of cash we have available for distribution as dividends to our stockholders. Company Specific Risk Factors Star Bulk has a limited operating history and may not operate profitably in the future Star Bulk was formed December 13, 2006 and in January 2007, entered into agreements to acquire eight drybulk carriers. Star Bulk took delivery of its first vessel in December 2007. Accordingly, the consolidated financial statements included in this report reflect the financial results of Star Bulk as an operating company for a very limited period. These consolidated financial statements do not provide a meaningful basis for you to evaluate its operations and ability to be profitable in the future. Star Bulk may not be profitable in the future. We are dependent on medium- to long-term time charters in a volatile shipping industry and a decline in charterhire rates would affect our results of operations and ability to pay dividends We charter all of our vessels pursuant to medium- to long-term time charters with remaining terms of approximately one to five years. The time charter market is highly competitive and spot market charterhire rates (which affect time charter rates) may fluctuate significantly based upon available charters and the supply of, and demand for, seaborne shipping capacity. Our ability to re-charter our vessels on the expiration or termination of their current time charters and the charter rates payable under any renewal or replacement charters will depend upon, among other things, economic conditions in the drybulk shipping market. The drybulk carrier charter market is volatile, and in the past, time charter and spot market charter rates for drybulk carriers have declined below operating costs of vessels. If future charterhire rates are depressed, we may not be able to operate our vessels profitably or to pay you dividends. Our earnings may be adversely affected if we are not able to take advantage of favorable charter rates We charter our drybulk carriers to customers pursuant to medium- to long-term time charters, which generally last from one to five years. We may in the future extend the charter periods for the vessels in our fleet. Our vessels that are committed to longer-term charters may not be available for employment on short-term charters during periods of increasing short-term charterhire rates when these charters may be more profitable than long-term charters. If we fail to manage our planned growth properly, we may not be able to successfully expand our fleet adversely affecting the our overall financial position We intend to continue to expand our fleet. Our growth will depend on: · locating and acquiring suitable vessels; · identifying and consummating acquisitions or joint ventures; · integrating any acquired vessels successfully with our existing operations; · enhancing our customer base; · managing our expansion; and · obtaining required financing. 13 Growing any business by acquisition presents numerous risks such as undisclosed liabilities and obligations, difficulty experienced in obtaining additional qualified personnel and managing relationships with customers and suppliers and integrating newly acquired operations into existing infrastructures. We may not be successful in executing our growth plans and may incur significant expenses and losses. Our loan agreements may contain restrictive covenants that may limit our liquidity and corporate activities Our current term loan agreements with Commerzbank AG and Piraeus Bank A.E., and any future loan agreements may impose operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions may limit our ability to: · incur additional indebtedness; · create liens on our assets; · sell capital stock of our subsidiaries; · make investments; · engage in mergers or acquisitions; · pay dividends; · make capital expenditures; · change the management of our vessels or terminate or materially amend the management agreement relating to each vessel; and · sell our vessels. Therefore, we may need to seek permission from our lenders in order to engage in some important corporate actions. The lenders’ interests may be different from ours, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain the lenders’ permission when needed. This may prevent us from taking actions that are in our best interest. Servicing debt will limit funds available for other purposes, including capital expenditures and payment of dividends As of June 25, 2008, we had $120.0 million outstanding under our term loan agreement with Commerzbank AG in connection with the purchase of the vessels in our initial fleet and $85.0 million outstanding under our term loan agreement with Piraeus Bank A.E. in connection with the purchase of three additional vessels in our current fleet. In the second quarter of 2008, we entered into agreements to purchase a 2005 built Supramax drybulk carrier and a 1991 built Capesize drybulk carrier for the aggregate purchase price of approximately $156.0 million for expected delivery to us by July and September of 2008, respectively. On April 14, 2008 we entered into a loan agreement of up to $170.0 million with Piraeus Bank A.E. in order to partly finance the acquisition cost of vessels the Star Omicron and the Star Sigma and also to provide us with additional liquidity. The Star Alpha, the Star Beta, and the Star Sigma were used as collateral for this loan. The loan bears interest at LIBOR plus a margin and is repayable in twenty-four quarterly installments through April 2014. As of June 25, 2008, we had outstanding borrowings in the amount of $85.0 million under this loan. We may be required to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to pay the principal and interest on our debt. These payments limit funds otherwise available for working capital expenditures and other purposes, including payment of dividends. If we are unable to service our debt, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Default by our charterers may lead to decreased revenues and a reduction in earnings We have entered into a time charter with each of Worldlink Shipping Limited for the Star Alpha, Industrial Carriers Inc. for the Star Beta, North China Shipping Limited Bahamas for the Star Epsilon, Essar for the Star Delta, Norden A/S for the Star Zeta, Hyundai Merchant Marine for the Star Theta, TMT Co. Ltd., or TMT, for the Star Iota and Star Gamma, Ishaar Overseas for the Star Kappa, Sun God Navigation S.A. for the Star Sigma and GMI Ltd. for the Star Omicron. Consistent with drybulk shipping industry practice, we have not independently analyzed the creditworthiness of the charterers. Our revenues may be dependent on the performance of our charterers and, as a result, defaults by our charterers may materially adversely affect our revenues. 14 In the highly competitive international drybulk shipping industry, we may not be able to compete for charters with new entrants or established companies with greater resources which may adversely affect our results of operations We employ our vessels in a highly competitive market that is capital intensive and highly fragmented. Competition arises primarily from other vessel owners, some of whom have substantially greater resources than us. Competition for the transportation of drybulk cargoes can be intense and depends on price, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the vessel and its managers to the charterers. Due in part to the highly fragmented market, competitors with greater resources could operate larger fleets through consolidations or acquisitions and may be able to offer more favorable terms. We may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel and other employees in the shipping industry, which may negatively affect the effectiveness of our management and our results of operations Our success will depend to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of our management team. As of December 31, 2007, we had ten employees, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer and 16 employees as of June 2008. As of December 31, 2007, eight employees were engaged in the day to day management of the vessels in our fleet. Our success will depend upon our ability to retain key members of our management team and the ability of Star Bulk Management to recruit and hire suitable employees. The loss of any members of our senior management team could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. Difficulty in hiring and retaining personnel could adversely affect our results of operations. We do not maintain “key-man” life insurance on any of our officers or employees of Star Bulk Management. As we expand our fleet, we will need to implement our operations and financial systems and hire new shoreside staff and seafarers to staff our vessels; if we cannot implement these systems or recruit suitable employees, our performance may be adversely affected Our operating and financial systems may not be adequate as we expand our fleet, and our attempts to implement those systems may be ineffective. In addition, we will have to rely on our wholly-owned subsidiary, Star Bulk Management, to recruit shoreside administrative and management personnel. Shoreside personnel will be recruited by Star Bulk Management through referrals from other shipping companies and traditional methods of securing personnel, such as placing classified advertisements in shipping industry periodicals. Star Bulk Management has sub-contracted crew management, which includes the recruitment of seafarers, to Bernhardt Schulte Shipmanagement Ltd., formerly Hanseatic Shipping Co. Ltd., or the Manager, a major international third-party technical management company, Univan Shipmanagement Ltd., or Univan and Combine Marine S.A., or Combine Star Bulk Management and its crewing agent may not be able to continue to hire suitable employees as Star Bulk expands its fleet. If we are unable to operate our financial and operations systems effectively, recruit suitable employees or if Star Bulk Management’s unaffiliated crewing agent encounters business or financial difficulties, our performance may be materially adversely affected. Risks involved with operating ocean going vessels could affect our business and reputation, which would adversely affect our revenues The operation of an ocean-going vessel carries inherent risks. These risks include the possibility of: · crew strikes and/or boycotts; · marine disaster; · piracy; · environmental accidents; · cargo and property losses or damage; and · business interruptions caused by mechanical failure, human error, war, terrorism, political action in various countries or adverse weather conditions. Any of these circumstances or events could increase our costs or lower our revenues. 15 Our vessels may suffer damage and may face unexpected drydocking costs, which could adversely affect our cash flow and financial condition If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility. The costs of drydock repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. We may have to pay drydocking costs that our insurance does not cover. The loss of earnings while these vessels are being repaired and reconditioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our earnings. Purchasing and operating secondhand vessels may result in increased operating costs and vessel off-hire, which could adversely affect our earnings Our inspection of secondhand vessels prior to purchase does not provide us with the same knowledge about their condition and cost of any required or anticipated repairs that we would have had if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. We will not receive the benefit of warranties on secondhand vessels. Typically, the costs to maintain a vessel in good operating condition increase with the age of the vessel. Older vessels are typically less fuel efficient and more costly to maintain than more recently constructed vessels. Cargo insurance rates increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may require expenditures for alterations, or the addition of new equipment, to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which the vessels may engage. As our vessels age, market conditions may not justify those expenditures or enable us to operate its vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. We inspected the nine vessels that we acquired from TMT and the two vessels that we acquired from third parties, considered the age and condition of the vessels in budgeting for their operating, insurance and maintenance costs, and if we acquire additional second-hand vessels in the future, we may encounter higher operating and maintenance costs due to the age and condition of those additional vessels. We may not have adequate insurance to compensate us for the loss of a vessel, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation We have procured hull and machinery insurance, protection and indemnity insurance, which includes environmental damage and pollution insurance coverage and war risk insurance for our fleet. We do not maintain, for our vessels, insurance against loss of hire, which covers business interruptions that result from the loss of use of a vessel. We may not be adequately insured against all risks. We may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for our fleet in the future. The insurers may not pay particular claims. Our insurance policies may contain deductibles for which we will be responsible and limitations and exclusions which may increase our costs or lower our revenue. Moreover, insurers may default on claims they are required to pay. If our insurance is not enough to cover claims that may arise, the deficiency may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to pay dividends We intend to pay a regular quarterly dividend however, we may incur other expenses or liabilities that would reduce or eliminate the cash available for distribution as dividends. Our loan agreements, including future credit facilities we may enter into, may also prohibit or restrict the declaration and payment of dividends under some circumstances. In addition, the declaration and payment of dividends will be subject at all times to the discretion of our board of directors. The timing and amount of dividends will depend on our earnings, financial condition, cash requirements and availability, fleet renewal and expansion, restrictions in our loan agreements, the provisions of Marshall Islands law affecting the payment of dividends and other factors. Marshall Islands law generally prohibits the payment of dividends other than from surplus or while a company is insolvent or would be rendered insolvent upon the payment of such dividends, or if there is no surplus, dividends may be declared or paid out of net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and for the preceding fiscal year. 16 We are a holding company, and depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial obligations or to make dividend payments We are a holding company and our wholly-owned subsidiaries, conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. We will have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our wholly-owned subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to make dividend payments depends on our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, our board of directors may exercise its discretion not to pay dividends. We and our subsidiaries will be permitted to pay dividends under our credit facilities only for so long as we are in compliance with all applicable financial covenants, terms and conditions. We depend on officers who may engage in other business activities in the international shipping industry which may create conflicts of interest Prokopios Tsirigakis, our Chief Executive Officer and a member of our board of directors, and George Syllantavos, our Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and member of our board of directors participate in business activities not associated with the Company. As a result, Mr. Tsirigakis and Mr. Syllantavos may devote less time to the Company than if they were not engaged in other business activities and may owe fiduciary duties to the shareholders of both the Company as well as shareholders of other companies which they may be affiliated, which may create conflicts of interest in matters involving or affecting the Company and its customers. It is not certain that any of these conflicts of interest will be resolved in our favor. We are incorporated in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law, which may negatively affect the ability of public shareholders to protect their interests We are incorporated under the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and our corporate affairs are governed by our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws and by the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act or BCA. The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Republic of the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the law of the Republic of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain United States jurisdictions. Shareholder rights may differ as well. While the BCA does specifically incorporate the non-statutory law, or judicial case law, of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction. Our directors and officers are non-U.S. residents, and although may bring an original action in the courts of the Marshall Islands or obtain a judgment against us, our directors or our management based on U.S. laws in the event you believe your rights as a shareholder have been infringed, it may be difficult to enforce judgments against us, our directors or our management All of our assets are located outside of the United States. Our business will be operated primarily from our offices in Athens, Greece. In addition, our directors and officers are non-residents of the United States, and all or a substantial portion of the assets of these non-residents are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the United States if you believe that your rights have been infringed under securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Marshall Islands and of other jurisdictions may prevent or restrict you from enforcing a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. Although you may bring an original action against us, our officers and directors in the courts of the Marshall Islands based on U.S. laws, and the courts of the Marshall Islands may impose civil liability, including monetary damages, against us, our officers or directors for a cause of action arising under Marshall Islands law, it may be impracticable for you to do so given the geographic location of the Marshall Islands. 17 There is a risk that we could be treated as a U.S. domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes after the merger of Star Maritime with and into Star Bulk, with Star Bulk as the surviving corporation, or Redomiciliation Merger, which would adversely affect our earnings Section 7874(b) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or the Code, provides that, unless certain requirements are satisfied, a corporation organized outside the United States which acquires substantially all of the assets (through a plan or a series of related transactions) of a corporation organized in the United States will be treated as a U.S. domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes if shareholders of the U.S. corporation whose assets are being acquired own at least 80% of the non-U.S. acquiring corporation after the acquisition. If Section 7874(b) of the Code were to apply to Star Maritime and the Redomiciliation Merger, then, among other consequences, the Company, as the surviving entity of the Redomiciliation Merger, would be subject to U.S. federal income tax as a U.S. domestic corporation on its worldwide income after the Redomiciliation Merger. Upon completion of the Redomiciliation Merger and the concurrent issuance of stock to TMT under the acquisition agreements, the stockholders of Star Maritime owned less than 80% of the Company. Therefore, the Company believes that it should not be subject to Section 7874(b) of the Code after the Redomiciliation Merger. Star Maritime obtained an opinion of its counsel, Seward & Kissel LLP, that Section 7874(b) should not apply to the Redomiciliation Merger. However, there is no authority directly addressing the application of Section 7874(b) to a transaction such as the Redomiciliation Merger where shares in a foreign corporation such as the Company are issued concurrently with (or shortly after) a merger. In particular, since there is no authority directly applying the “series of related transactions” or “plan” provisions to the post-acquisition stock ownership requirements of Section 7874(b), the United States Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, may not agree with Seward & Kissel’s opinion on this matter. Moreover, Star Maritime has not sought a ruling from the IRS on this point. Therefore, IRS may seek to assert that we are subject to U.S. federal income tax on our worldwide income for taxable years after the Redomiciliation Merger although Seward & Kissel is of the opinion that such an assertion should not be successful. We may have to pay tax on United States source income, which would reduce our earnings Under the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel owning or chartering corporation, such as the Company and its subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States is characterized as U.S. source shipping income and such income is subject to a 4% U.S. federal income tax without allowance for deduction, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code and the Treasury regulations promulgated thereunder. We expect that we will qualify for this statutory tax exemption and we intend to take this position for U.S. federal income tax return reporting purposes for our 2007 taxable year. However, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us to lose the benefit of this tax exemption and thereby become subject to U.S. federal income tax on our U.S. source income. If we are not entitled to this exemption under Section 883 for any taxable year, we would be subject for those years to a 4% U.S. federal income tax on its U.S.-source shipping income. The imposition of this taxation could have a negative effect on our business and would result in decreased earnings. U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a “passive foreign investment company,” which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders We will be treated as a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of “passive income” or (2) at least 50% of the average value of its assets produce or are held for the production of those types of “passive income.” For purposes of these tests, “passive income” includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute “passive income.” U.S. shareholders of a PFIC may be subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. 18 Based on our method of operation, we take the position for United States federal income tax purposes we are not a PFIC with respect to any taxable year. In this regard, we intend to treat the gross income we will derive or will be deemed to derive from our time chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we take the position that our income from our time chartering activities does not constitute “passive income,” and the assets that we will own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute passive assets. There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our method of operation. In addition, we have not received an opinion of counsel with respect to this issue. Accordingly, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, or a court of law may not accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, may constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in the nature and extent of its operations. For example, if we were treated as earning rental income from our chartering activities rather than services income, we would be treated as a PFIC. If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, its U.S. shareholders will face adverse U.S. tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, unless those shareholders make an election available under the Code (which election could itself have adverse consequences for such shareholders), such shareholders would be liable to pay U.S. federal income tax at the then highest income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our common shares, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the shareholder’s holding period of our common shares. Our internal controls over financial reporting do not currently meet all of the standards contemplated by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Section 404. Since we failed to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we may be unable to accurately report our consolidated financial results or prevent fraud and could be required to restate our historical financial statements, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and the price of our common stock. Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”)) as of December 31, 2007. Based on this evaluation, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of December 31, 2007, the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were not effective because of the material weakness in internal control over financial reporting described below. Management has assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting at December 31, 2007, based on the framework established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on the aforementioned assessment, the management concluded that internal control over financial reporting was not effective due to material weaknesses identified in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. Star Bulk took delivery of its first vessel in December 2007 and, as a result, management began the process to replace the internal controls over financial reporting which previously existed while the Company was a blank check company with those of a company that owns and operates vessels. Although progress was made, the Company did not have sufficient time to complete designing and implementing a comprehensive system of internal controls over financial reporting that would prevent or timely detect material adjustments and identify financial statement disclosure requirements. Consequently, adjustments and disclosures that were material in the aggregate to the consolidated financial statements and necessary to present the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 in accordance with U.S. GAAP were made by the Company after being identified by the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm. Specifically, we did not have in place adequate internal controls over our financial close and reporting processes and we lacked sufficient accounting personnel with the necessary level of US GAAP expertise which resulted in the Company not being able to: 19 · Properly evaluate and account for non-routine or complex transactions, including the determination of the purchase price of the vessels fair value of time charter agreements acquired, the application of SFAS 123(R), the classification of expenses related to the target acquisition process, and the completeness of the accrual of general and administrative expenses; and · Properly identify all financial statement disclosure requirements in accordance with U.S. GAAP including disclosure surrounding related party transactions. We have determined that these adjustments were not prevented or detected due to material weaknesses in our controls due to the absence of sufficient time for management to (1) design and implement a comprehensive system of internal controls and (2) hire sufficient accounting personnel with the requisite US GAAP expertise that are required to support our operation as a shipping company. However, management has made the necessary adjustments to present the annual consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We will continue to evaluate the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting on an ongoing basis, including consideration of the material weaknesses identified above, or other deficiencies we may identify. The Company has already and will further implement actions as necessary in its continuing assessment of disclosure controls and internal controls over financial reporting. We may be unable to successfully complete the procedures and attestation requirements of Section 404 or our auditors may identify significant deficiencies, as well as material weaknesses, in internal control over financial reporting in future reporting periods. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to certify as to the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting. Matters impacting our internal controls may cause us to be unable to report our consolidated financial information on a timely basis and thereby subject us to adverse regulatory consequences, including sanctions by the SEC or violations of NASDAQ Global Market listing rules. There could also be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in us and the reliability of our consolidated financial statements. Confidence in the reliability of our financial statements could also suffer if our independent registered public accounting firm were to report material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. This could materially adversely affect us and lead to a decline in the price of our common stock. We believe that the out-of-pocket costs, the diversion of management’s attention from running our day-to-day operations and operational changes caused by the need to comply with the requirements of Section 404 will be significant. If the time and costs associated with such compliance exceed our current expectations, our profitability could be affected. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock There may be no continuing public market for you to resell our common stock Our common shares commenced trading on the NASDAQ Global Market in December 2007. We cannot assure you that an active and liquid public market for our common shares will continue. The price of our common stock may be volatile and may fluctuate due to factors such as: 20 · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results and those of other public companies in our industry; · mergers and strategic alliances in the drybulk shipping industry; · market conditions in the drybulk shipping industry and the general state of the securities markets; · changes in government regulation; · shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecast by securities analysts; and · announcements concerning us or our competitors. You may not be able to sell your shares of our common stock in the future at the price that you paid for them or at all. Certain stockholders hold registration rights, which if exercised, may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock Initial Stockholders of Star Maritime who purchased common stock prior to Star Maritime’s initial public offering are entitled to demand that we register the resale of their shares at any time after the shares are released from escrow which, except in limited circumstances, will not be before December 15, 2008. If such stockholders exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their shares, there will be an additional 9,026,924 shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market. In addition, certain of Star Maritime’s officers and directors who purchased units in Star Maritime’s private placement in December 2005 are entitled to demand the registration of the securities underlying the 1,132,500 units, with each unit consisting of one share and one warrant. If all of these stockholders exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their shares of common stock and warrants, there will be an additional 1,132,500 shares of common stock and 1,132,500 warrants eligible for trading in the public market. The presence of these additional shares and warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and warrants. Future sales of our common stock or warrants could cause the market price of our common stock or warrants to decline Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or warrants in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, may depress the market price for our common stock. These sales could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our equity securities in the future. We may issue additional shares of our common stock, warrants or other equity securities or securities convertible into our equity securities in the future and our stockholders may elect to sell large numbers of shares held by them from time to time. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation authorize us to issue 100,000,000 common shares with par value $0.01 per share of which 42,516,433 shares and 19,048,136 warrants were outstanding as of December 31, 2007 and 54,530,989 shares and 5,934,080 warrants were outstanding as of June 25, 2008. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents could make it difficult for our stockholders to replace or remove our current board of directors or have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock Several provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws could make it difficult for our stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors in any one year, preventing them from changing the composition of management. In addition, the same provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable. 21 These provisions include: · authorizing our board of directors to issue “blank check” preferred stock without stockholder approval; · providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three year terms; · prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; and · authorizing the board to call a special meeting at any time. Item 