Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our shareholders should carefully consider the risks described below. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. We have only described the risks we consider to be material. However, there may be additional risks that are viewed by us as not material or are not presently known to us. This section contains a summary of some of the terms of our operating agreement and the Management Agreement. Those summaries are not complete and are subject to, and qualified in their entirety by reference to, all of the provisions of our operating agreement and the Management Agreement, copies of which have been included as exhibits to the Current Report on Form 8-K that we filed with the SEC on May 4, 2007 and are available on the SEC website at www.sec.gov. If any of the risks described below were to occur, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to occur, the price of our common shares could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to the Current Market Environment Our business and the businesses in which we invest have been and may continue to be adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally. Our business and the businesses of the companies in which we invest are materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally. The United States National Bureau of Economic Research has announced that the United States economy has been in a recession since December 2007. In the past twelve months, these conditions have changed both suddenly and negatively. Since the third quarter of 2007, and particularly during the second half of 2008, the credit and securities markets were materially and adversely affected by significant declines in 14 Table of Contents the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. This was initially triggered by declines in the values of subprime mortgages, but spread to all mortgage and real estate asset classes, leveraged bank loans and nearly all asset classes, including equities. The global markets have been characterized by substantially increased volatility and short-selling and an overall loss of investor confidence, initially in financial institutions, but more recently in companies in a number of other industries and in the broader markets. The decline in asset values has caused increases in margin calls for investors, requirements that derivatives counterparties post additional collateral and redemptions by mutual and hedge fund investors, all of which have increased the downward pressure on asset values and outflows of client funds across the financial services industry. In addition, the increased redemptions and unavailability of credit have required hedge funds and others to rapidly reduce leverage, which has increased volatility and further contributed to the decline in asset values. Declining asset values, defaults on mortgages and consumer loans, and the lack of market and investor confidence, as well as other factors, have all combined to increase credit default swap spreads, to cause rating agencies to lower credit ratings, and to otherwise increase the cost and decrease the availability of liquidity, despite very significant declines in central bank borrowing rates and other government actions. Banks and other lenders have suffered significant losses and have become reluctant to lend, even on a secured basis, due to the increased risk of default and the impact of declining asset values on the value of collateral. The markets for securitized debt offerings backed by mortgages, loans, credit card receivables and other assets have for the most part been closed and the market for certain securitized debt offerings may take years to return or never return. In 2008, governments, regulators and central banks in the United States and worldwide have taken numerous steps to increase liquidity and to restore investor confidence, but asset values have continued to decline and access to liquidity continues to be very limited. The ongoing liquidity crisis and the loss of confidence in financial institutions have increased our cost of funding and limited our access to some of our traditional sources of liquidity, including both secured and unsecured borrowings. Increases in funding costs and limitations on our access to liquidity have negatively impacted our earnings and our ability to engage in certain activities. In addition, as of the end of 2008, the United States, Europe and Japan are all in a recession. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions is greatly reduced and local governments and many companies are in serious difficulty due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. Unemployment has increased significantly. The lack of liquidity, general uncertainty about economic and market activities and a lack of consumer and investor confidence have negatively impacted our business. Our financial performance, and the financial performance of the businesses in which we invest, are highly dependent on the environment in which they operate. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, high global gross domestic product growth; transparent, liquid and efficient capital markets; low inflation; high business and investor confidence; stable geopolitical conditions; and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by: declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation, interest rates, exchange rate volatility, default rates or the price of basic commodities; outbreaks of hostilities or other geopolitical instability; corporate, political or other scandals that reduce investor confidence in capital markets; natural disasters or pandemics; or a combination of these or other factors. Overall, during fiscal 2008, the business environment has been extremely adverse for our business and that of many of the companies in which we invest and there can be no assurance that these conditions will improve in the near term or at all. While the adverse business conditions continue, we expect our results of operations to be adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents The current dislocations in the corporate credit sector and the current weakness in the broader financial market could adversely affect us and one or more of our lenders, which could result in increases in our borrowing costs, reductions in our liquidity and reductions in the value of the investments in our portfolio. The continuing dislocations in the corporate credit sector and the current weakness in the broader financial market could adversely affect one or more of the counterparties providing funding for our investments and could cause those counterparties to be unwilling or unable to provide us with additional financing which may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. In addition, as a result of concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. This could potentially limit our ability to finance our investments and operations, increase our financing costs and reduce our liquidity. This risk is exacerbated by the fact that a substantial portion of our financing is provided by a relatively small number of counterparties. If one or more major market participants fails or withdraws from the market, it could negatively impact the marketability of all fixed income securities and this could reduce the value of the securities in our portfolio, thus reducing our net book value. Furthermore, if one or more of our counterparties is unwilling or unable to provide us with ongoing financing, we could be forced to sell our investments at a time when prices are depressed. Liquidity is essential to our businesses and we rely on external sources to finance a significant portion of our operations. Liquidity is essential to our business. Our liquidity could be substantially affected in a negative fashion by an inability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or the equity capital markets or an inability to access the secured lending markets. Factors that we cannot control, such as disruptions in the financial markets or negative views about corporate credit investing and the specialty finance industry generally, could impair our ability to raise funding. In addition, our ability to raise funding could be impaired if lenders develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects. Such negative perceptions could be developed if we incur large trading losses, or we suffer a decline in the level of our business activity, among other reasons. If we are unable to raise funding using the methods described above, we would likely need to liquidate unencumbered assets, such as our investment and trading portfolios, to meet maturing liabilities. We may be unable to sell some of our assets, or we may have to sell assets at a discount from market value, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations and may have a negative impact on the market price of our shares and any other securities we may issue. Periods of adverse market volatility could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. During periods of increased adverse market volatility, such as during the ongoing global credit crisis, we are exposed to the risk that we may have to post additional margin collateral, which may have a material adverse impact on our available liquidity. Certain of our financing facilities allow the counterparties, to varying degrees, to determine a new market value of the collateral to reflect current market conditions. If a counterparty determines that the value of the collateral has decreased, it may initiate a margin call and require us to either post additional collateral to cover such decrease or repay a portion of the outstanding borrowing, on minimal notice. A significant increase in margin calls as a result of spread widening could harm our liquidity, results of operations, financial condition, and business prospects. Additionally, in order to obtain cash to satisfy a margin call, we may be required to liquidate assets or raise capital at a disadvantageous time, which could cause us to incur further losses or adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, may impair our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders and may have a negative impact on the market price of our shares and any other securities we may issue. As a result, our contingent liquidity reserves may not be 16 Table of Contents sufficient in the event of a material adverse change in the credit markets and related market price market volatility. We leverage our portfolio investments, which may adversely affect our return on our investments and may reduce cash available for distribution. We leverage our portfolio investments through borrowings, generally through the use of bank credit facilities, total rate of return swaps, securitizations, including the issuance of CLOs, and other borrowings. The percentage of leverage varies depending on our ability to obtain credit facilities and the lenders' and rating agencies' estimate of the stability of the portfolio investments' cash flow. At the current time, the only contractual limitation on our ability to leverage our portfolio is a covenant contained in our credit facility, certain warehouse facilities and certain other loan agreements that our leverage ratio cannot exceed 1.0 to 1.0, computed on a basis that generally excludes the debt of variable interest entities that we consolidate under GAAP. Our return on our investments and cash available for distribution to holders of our shares may be reduced to the extent that changes in market conditions cause the cost of our financing to increase relative to the income that can be derived from the assets acquired and financed. Our debt service payments reduce cash flow available for distributions to holders of our shares. If we are unable to continue to utilize CLOs successfully, we may be unable to grow or fully execute our business strategy and our results of operations may be adversely affected. An inability to continue to utilize CLOs successfully could limit our ability to grow our business or fully execute our business strategy and our results of operations may be adversely affected. We may enter into derivative contracts that could expose us to contingent liabilities in the future. Part of our investment strategy involves entering into derivative contracts that will require us to fund cash payments in certain circumstances. These payments are contingent liabilities and therefore may not appear on our balance sheet. Our ability to fund these contingent liabilities will depend on the liquidity of our assets and access to capital at the time, and the need to fund these contingent liabilities could adversely impact our financial condition. Hedging against interest rate exposure may adversely affect our results of operations, which could adversely affect our ability to make payments due on our indebtedness and cash available for distribution to holders of our shares. We enter into interest rate swap agreements and other interest rate hedging instruments as part of our interest rate risk management strategy. Our hedging activity varies in scope based on the level of interest rates, the type of portfolio investments held, and other changing market conditions. Interest rate hedging may fail to protect or could adversely affect us because, among other things: •interest rate hedging instruments can be expensive, particularly during periods of rising and volatile interest rates; •available interest rate hedging may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought; •the duration of the hedge may be significantly different than the duration of the related liability or asset; •the credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction; and •the party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay. 17 Table of Contents Any hedging activity we engage in may adversely affect our results of operations, which could adversely affect our ability to make payments due on our indebtedness and cash available for distribution to holders of our shares. Therefore, while we may enter into such transactions to seek to reduce interest rate risks, unanticipated changes in interest rates may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions or liabilities being hedged may vary materially. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings or liabilities being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. Hedging instruments often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any United States or foreign governmental authorities and involve risks and costs. The cost of using hedging instruments increases as the period covered by the instrument increases and during periods of rising and volatile interest rates. We may increase our hedging activity and thus increase our hedging costs during periods when interest rates are volatile or rising and hedging costs have increased. In addition, hedging instruments involve risk since they often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any United States or foreign governmental authorities. Consequently, there are no requirements with respect to record keeping, financial responsibility or segregation of customer funds and positions. Furthermore, the enforceability of agreements underlying hedging transactions may depend on compliance with applicable statutory, commodity and other regulatory requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, applicable international requirements. The business failure of a hedging counterparty with whom we enter into a hedging transaction will most likely result in a default. Default by a party with whom we enter into a hedging transaction may result in the loss of unrealized profits and force us to cover our resale commitments, if any, at the then current market price. It may not always be possible to dispose of or close out a hedging position without the consent of the hedging counterparty, and we may not be able to enter into an offsetting contract in order to cover our risk. We cannot assure our shareholders that a liquid secondary market will exist for hedging instruments purchased or sold, and we may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses. We make non-United States dollar denominated investments, which subject us to currency rate exposure and the uncertainty of foreign laws and markets. We purchase investments denominated in foreign currencies. A change in foreign currency exchange rates may have an adverse impact on returns on any of these non-dollar denominated investments. Although we may choose to hedge our foreign currency risk, we may not be able to do so successfully and may incur losses on these investments as a result of exchange rate fluctuations. Investments in foreign countries also subject us to risks of multiple and conflicting tax laws and regulations and political and economic instability abroad, which could adversely affect our returns on these investments. Risks Related to Our Operations, Business Strategy and Investments We may not realize gains or income from our investments. We seek to generate both current income and capital appreciation. The assets in which we invest may not appreciate in value, however, and, in fact, may decline in value, and the debt securities in which we invest may default on interest and/or principal payments. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains or income from our investments. Any gains that we do realize may not be sufficient to 18 Table of Contents offset any other losses we experience. Any income that we realize may not be sufficient to offset our expenses. The terms of our indebtedness may restrict our ability to make future distributions and impose limitations on our current and future operations. Our credit agreement with Bank of America, N.A. and Citicorp North America, Inc. (the "Credit Agreement"), our unsecured revolving credit agreement with our Manager and Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. (Fixed Income) LLC, the parent of our Manager (the "Standby Agreement") and certain other financing facilities contain, and any future indebtedness may also contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose operating and other restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to make distributions to holders of our shares. The Credit Agreement and Standby Credit Agreement include covenants restricting our ability to: •incur or guarantee additional debt, other than debt incurred in the course of our business consistent with current operations; •create or incur liens, other than liens relating to secured debt permitted to be incurred; •engage in mergers and sales of substantially all of our assets; •make loans, acquisitions or investments, other than investments made in the course of our business consistent with current operations; •materially later our current investment and valuation policies; •make distributions on, and make redemptions and repurchases of, our shares, including a prohibition on distributions to our shareholders in an amount in excess of what would be required to pay all federal, state and local income taxes arising from the taxable income and gain that our shareholders incur in connection with the ownership of our common shares; and •engage in transactions with affiliates. In addition, the Credit Agreement and Standby Credit Agreement also include financial covenants, including requirements that we: •maintain adjusted consolidated tangible net worth (as defined in the Credit Agreement) of at least $1.0 billion; and •not exceed a leverage ratio (as defined in the Credit Agreement) of 1.00 to 1.00 computed on a basis that generally excludes the debt of variable interest entities that we consolidate under GAAP. In addition, the operating and financial restrictions in our credit facility, other financing facilities and any future financing facilities may adversely affect our ability to engage in our current and future operations or pay distributions to holders of our shares. As a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness may be affected by economic, financial and industry conditions beyond our control. A breach of any of these covenants or any of the other restrictive covenants could result in a default under the Credit Agreement and/or the Standby Agreement. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the Credit Agreement and/or the Standby Agreement, the lenders may not be required to lend any additional amounts to us and could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding thereunder, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be due and payable, which could also result in an event of default under our other agreements relating to our borrowings. If we were unable to 19 Table of Contents refinance these borrowings on favorable terms, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted by increased costs and less favorable terms, including higher interest rates and more restrictive covenants. The instruments governing the terms of any future refinancing of any borrowings are likely to contain similar or more restrictive covenants. We currently have significant indebtedness, some of which mature in the near term. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service or make required repayments of our indebtedness and we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $855.8 million of total recourse debt outstanding. Certain of this indebtedness matures in the near term, including: (i) $300.0 million under our Credit Agreement, of which $275.6 million was drawn as of such date and for which up to $150.0 million principal amount is due in November 2009 and up to an additional $150.0 million principal amount is due in November 2010, (ii) under the Standby Agreement, $100.0 million principal amount is due in December 2010 and which is undrawn as of December 31, 2008, (iii) $291.5 million principal amount of our subordinated senior unsecured convertible notes is due in July 2012. Our significant debt level and related debt service obligations: •may limit our ability to obtain additional financing in excess of our current borrowing capacity on satisfactory terms to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments, debt service requirements, capital stock and debt repurchases, distributions and other general corporate requirements or to refinance existing indebtedness; •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows to the payment of principal and interest on our debt which will reduce the funds we have available for other purposes; •limit our liquidity and operational flexibility and our ability to respond to the challenging economic and business conditions that currently exist or that we may face in the future; •may require us in the future to reduce discretionary spending, dispose of assets or forgo investments, acquisitions or other strategic opportunities; •impose on us additional financial and operational restrictions; •expose us to increased interest rate risk because a substantial portion of our debt obligations are at variable interest rates; and •subject us to market and industry speculation as to our financial condition and the effect of our debt level and debt service obligations on our operations, which speculation could be disruptive to our relationships with customers, suppliers, employees, creditors and other third parties. There can be no assurances that our operations will generate sufficient cash flows or that credit facilities will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. Our ability to make scheduled payments or prepayments on our debt and other financial obligations will depend on our future financial and operating performance and the value of our investments. There can be no assurances that our operations will generate sufficient cash flows or that credit facilities will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. Our financial and operating performance is subject to prevailing economic and industry conditions and to financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. Our substantial leverage exposes us to significant risk during periods of economic downturn such as the one we currently face, as our cash flows may decrease, but our required principal payments in respect of indebtedness do not change and our interest expense obligations could increase due to increases in interest rates. 20 Table of Contents If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we will likely face increased pressure to dispose of assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we cannot assure that we would be able to take any of these actions, that these actions would be successful and permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our existing or future debt agreements, including the Credit Agreement and the Standby Agreement. For example, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. There can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In the absence of improved operating results and access to capital resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. The Credit Agreement and the Standby Agreement restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from such dispositions. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds realized. Additionally, these proceeds may not be adequate to meet our debt service obligations then due. If we cannot make scheduled payments or prepayments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result, among other things, our debt holders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation or required to substantially restructure or alter our business operations or debt obligations. Variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. As of December 31, 2008, approximately $409.7 million of our recourse borrowings, primarily borrowings under the Credit Agreement and the junior subordinated notes issued in connection with our trust preferred securities, were at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same. We may use interest rate derivatives to hedge the variability of the cash flows associated with our existing or forecasted variable rate borrowings. Although we may enter into additional interest rate swaps, involving the exchange of floating for fixed rate interest payments, to reduce interest rate volatility, we cannot provide assurances that we will be able to do so or that such swaps will be effective. Declines in the fair values of our investments may adversely affect our results of operations and credit availability, which may adversely affect, in turn, our ability to make payments due on our indebtedness and our cash available for distribution to holders of our shares. A substantial portion of our assets are, and we believe are likely to continue to be, classified for accounting purposes as "available-for-sale" so long as it is management's intent not to sell such assets and we have sufficient financial wherewithal to hold the investment until its scheduled maturity. Changes in the fair values of those assets will be directly charged or credited to our shareholders' equity. As a result, a decline in values may reduce the book value of our assets. Moreover, if the decline in value of an available-for-sale security is considered by our management to be other than temporary, such decline will be recorded as a charge which will adversely affect our results of operations. A decline in the market value of our assets may adversely affect us, particularly in instances where we have borrowed money based on the market value of those assets. If the market value of those assets declines, the lender may require us to post additional collateral to support the loan. If we were unable to post the additional collateral, we would have to sell the assets at a time when we might not otherwise choose to do so. A reduction in credit available may adversely affect our results of 21 Table of Contents operations, our ability to make payments due on our indebtedness and cash available for distribution to holders of our shares. Further, financing counterparties may require us to maintain a certain amount of cash or to set aside unlevered assets sufficient to maintain a specified liquidity position intended to allow us to satisfy our collateral obligations. As a result, we may not be able to leverage our assets as fully as we would choose, which may reduce our return on equity. In the event that we are unable to meet these contractual obligations, our financial condition could deteriorate rapidly because we may be required to sell our investments at distressed prices in order to meet such margin or liquidity requirements. Market values of our investments may decline for a number of reasons, such as causes related to changes in prevailing market rates, increases in defaults, increases in voluntary prepayments for those investments that we have that are subject to prepayment risk, and widening of credit spreads. If credit spreads on our borrowings increase and the credit spreads on our investments do not also increase, we are unlikely to achieve our projected leveraged risk-adjusted returns. Also, if credit spreads on investments increase in the future, our existing investments will likely experience a material reduction in value. We make investment decisions based upon projected leveraged risk-adjusted returns. When making such projections we make assumptions regarding the long-term cost of financing such investments, particularly the credit spreads associated with our long-term financings. We define credit spread as the risk premium for taking credit risk which is the difference between the risk free rate and the interest rate paid on the applicable investment or loan, as the case may be. If credit spreads on our long term financings increase and the credit spreads on our investments are not increased accordingly, we will likely not achieve our targeted leveraged risk-adjusted returns and we will likely experience a material adverse reduction in the value of our investments. The ongoing crisis in the global credit markets has the potential to adversely affect our CLO investments. The global economy is currently being affected by a crisis in the credit markets and is experiencing a general downturn. Among the sectors particularly challenged by the current crisis in the global credit markets are the CLO and leveraged finance markets. In the current environment, liquidity in the credit markets has been drastically reduced, resulting in an increase in credit spreads and a decline in ratings, performance and market values for leveraged loans. We have significant exposure to these markets through our investments in CLO 2005-1, CLO 2005-2, CLO 2006-1, CLO 2007-1 and CLO 2007-A, each of which is a Cayman Islands incorporated special purpose company that issued to us and other investors notes secured by a pool of collateral consisting primarily of corporate leveraged loans. In most cases, our CLO investments are in deeply subordinated securities issued by the CLO issuers, representing highly leveraged investments in the underlying collateral, which increases both the opportunity for higher returns as well as the magnitude of losses when compared to other investors in these CLO structures that rank more senior to us in right of payment. As a result of our subordinated position in these CLO structures, during the current continuing economic downturn, we and our investors are at greater risk of suffering losses on our CLO investments. The CLO issuers in which we invest are experiencing an increase in downgrades, depreciations in market value and defaults in respect of leveraged loans in their collateral. In addition, the secondary market for debt obligations has become flooded with supply exceeding demand and most obligations available for purchase currently trade at a significant discount to par. The CLO issuers' portfolio profile tests set limits on the amount of discounted obligations a CLO can hold. During any time that a CLO issuer exceeds such a limit, the ability of the CLO's manager to sell assets and reinvest available principal proceeds into substitute assets is restricted. In addition, discounted assets and assets rated "CCC" or lower in excess of applicable limits in the CLO issuers' investment criteria are not given full 22 Table of Contents par credit for purposes of calculation of the CLO issuers' overcollateralization tests. As a result, many of these CLO issuers are failing or may in the future fail one or more of their overcollateralization tests, which causes diversion of cash flows away from us as holders of the more junior CLO securities in favor of investors more senior than us in right of repayment, until the relevant overcollateralization tests are satisfied. This diversion of cash flows could have a material adverse impact on our business and our ability to make distributions to shareholders. In addition, it is possible that our CLO issuers' collateral will be depleted before we realize a return on our CLO investments. The ability of the CLO issuers and Wayzata to make interest payments to the holders of the senior notes of those structures is highly dependent upon the performance of the CLO collateral. If the collateral in those structures was to experience a significant decrease in cash flow due to an increased default level, the issuer may be unable to pay interest to the holders of the senior notes which would allow such holders to declare an event of default under the indenture governing the transaction and accelerate all principal and interest outstanding on the senior notes. In addition, our CLO structures also contain certain events of default tied to the value of the CLO collateral which events of default could also cause an acceleration of the senior notes. If the value of the CLO collateral within a CLO were to be less than the amount of senior notes issued and outstanding, the senior noteholders would have the ability to declare an event of default. There can be no assurance that market conditions giving rise to these types of consequences will not occur, subsist or become more acute in the future. Our loan portfolio is and may continue to be concentrated in a limited number of companies and industries, which will subject us to a risk of significant loss if any of these companies defaults on its obligations to us or if there is a downturn in a particular industry. Our loan portfolio is and may continue to be concentrated in a limited number of companies and industries. For example, as of December 31, 2008, our twenty largest loans represented approximately 50% of our total loan portfolio. As a result, our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions to our shareholders may be adversely affected if a small number of borrowers default in their obligations to us or if we need to write down the value of any one loan. Additionally, a downturn in any particular industry in which we are invested could also negatively impact our results of operations and our ability to pay distributions. Certain of our investments are illiquid and we may not be able to vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions. The securities that we purchase in privately negotiated transactions are not registered under the relevant securities laws, resulting in a prohibition against their transfer, sale, pledge or other disposition except in a transaction that is exempt from the registration requirements of, or is otherwise in accordance with, those laws. A majority of the mortgage-backed securities that we own are traded in private, unregistered transactions and are therefore subject to restrictions on resale or otherwise have no established trading market. As a result, our ability to vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions may be relatively limited. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our investments. Furthermore, we may face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a business entity to the extent that we or our Manager has or could be attributed with material non-public information regarding such business entity. 23 Table of Contents Some of our portfolio investments are recorded at fair value as determined by our Manager and, as a result, there is uncertainty as to the value of these investments. Some of our portfolio investments are, and we believe are likely to continue to be, in the form of loans and securities that have limited liquidity or are not publicly traded. The fair value of investments that have limited liquidity or are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable. We generally value these investments quarterly at fair value as determined by our Manager. Because such valuations are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these investments existed. The market value of our shares and any other securities we may issue could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of these investments are materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon their disposal. Our assets include leveraged loans, high-yield securities and common and preferred equity securities, each of which has greater risks of loss than secured senior loans and, if those losses are realized, it could adversely affect our results of operations, our ability to service our indebtedness and our cash available for distribution to holders of our shares. Our assets include leveraged loans, high-yield securities and marketable and non-marketable common and preferred equity securities, each of which involves a higher degree of risk than senior secured loans. First, the leveraged loans and high-yield securities may not be secured by mortgages or liens on assets. Even if secured, these leveraged loans and high-yield securities may have higher loan-to-value ratios than senior secured loans. Furthermore, our right to payment and the security interest in any collateral may be subordinated to the payment rights and security interests of a senior lender. Therefore, we may be limited in our ability to enforce our rights to collect these loans and to recover any of the loan balances through a foreclosure of collateral. Certain of these leveraged loans and high-yield securities may have an interest-only payment schedule, with the principal amount remaining outstanding and at risk until the maturity of the loan. In this case, a borrower's ability to repay its loan may be dependent upon a refinancing or a liquidity event that will enable the repayment of the loan. In addition to the above, numerous other factors may affect a company's ability to repay its loan, including the failure to meet its business plan, a downturn in its industry or negative economic conditions. A deterioration in a company's financial condition and prospects may be accompanied by deterioration in the collateral for the high-yield securities and leveraged loans. Losses on our high-yield securities and leveraged loans could adversely affect our results of operations, which could adversely affect our ability to service our indebtedness and cash available for distribution to holders of our shares. In addition, marketable and non-marketable common and preferred equity securities may also have a greater risk of loss than senior secured loans since such equity investments are subordinate to debt of the issuer and are not secured by property underlying the investment. The mortgage loans underlying the mortgage-backed securities we invest in are subject to delinquency, foreclosure and loss, which could result in losses to us. RMBS evidence interests in or are secured by pools of residential mortgage loans. Accordingly, the mortgage-backed securities we invest in are subject to all of the risks of the underlying mortgage loans. Residential mortgage loans are secured by single-family residential property and are subject to risks of delinquency, foreclosure and risks of loss. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by a residential property is dependent upon the income or assets of the borrower. A number of factors, including a general economic downturn, acts of God, terrorism, social unrest and civil disturbances, may impair borrowers' abilities to repay their loans. Foreclosure of a mortgage loan can be an 24 Table of Contents expensive and lengthy process that could have a substantial negative effect on our anticipated return on the foreclosed mortgage loan. Our investments in subordinated residential mortgage-backed securities are generally in the "second loss" position and therefore subject to losses. In general, losses on an asset securing a mortgage loan included in a securitization will be borne first by the equity holder of the property, then by a cash reserve fund or letter of credit, if any, and then by the "first loss" subordinated security holder and then by the "second loss" subordinated security holder. In the event of default and the exhaustion of any equity support, reserve fund, letter of credit and any classes of securities junior to those in which we invest, we will not be able to recover all of our investment in the securities we purchase. In addition, if the underlying mortgage portfolio has been overvalued by the originator, or if the values subsequently decline and, as a result, less collateral is available to satisfy interest and principal payments due on the related mortgage-backed securities, the securities in which we invest may effectively become the "first loss" position behind the more senior securities, which may result in significant losses to us. The prices of lower credit quality securities are generally less sensitive to interest rate changes than more highly rated investments, but more sensitive to economic downturns or individual issuer developments. An economic downturn, for example, could cause a decline in the price of lower credit quality securities because the ability of obligors of mortgages underlying mortgage-backed securities to make principal and interest payments may be impaired. In such event, existing credit support in the securitization structure may be insufficient to protect us against loss of our principal on these securities. Our rights under corporate leveraged loans we invest in may be more restricted than investments in other loans. We may hold interests in corporate leveraged loans originated by banks and other financial institutions. We may acquire interests in corporate leveraged loans either directly by a direct purchase or an assignment, or indirectly through a participation. The purchaser of an assignment typically succeeds to all the rights and obligations of the assigning institution and becomes a lender under the credit agreement with respect to the debt obligation; however, its rights can be more restricted than those of the assigning institution. Participation interests in a portion of a debt obligation typically result in a contractual relationship only with the institution participating out the interest, not with the borrower. In purchasing participations, we generally will have no right to enforce compliance by the borrower with the terms of the credit agreement, nor any rights of offset against the borrower, and we may not directly benefit from the collateral supporting the debt obligation in which we have purchased the participation. As a result, we will assume the credit risk of both the borrower and the institution selling the participation. The high yield bonds that we invest in have greater credit and liquidity risk than more highly rated bonds. We invest in high yield bonds which are rated below investment-grade by one or more nationally recognized statistical rating organizations or are unrated but of comparably low credit quality, and have greater credit and liquidity risk than more highly rated bonds. High yield bonds may be unsecured, and may be subordinate to other obligations of the obligor. The lower rating, or lack of a rating, on high yield bonds reflects a greater possibility that adverse changes in the financial condition of the obligor or in general economic conditions or both may impair the ability of the obligor to make payment of principal and interest. Many issuers of high yield bonds are highly leveraged, and their relatively high debt-to-equity ratios create increased risks that their operations might not generate sufficient cash flow to service their debt obligations. Overall declines in the below investment-grade bond and other markets may adversely affect such issuers by inhibiting their ability to refinance their debt at maturity. High yield bonds are often less liquid than higher rated bonds. 25 Table of Contents High yield bonds are often issued in connection with leveraged acquisitions or recapitalizations in which the issuers incur a substantially higher amount of indebtedness than the level at which they had previously operated. High yield bonds have historically experienced greater default rates than has been the case for investment-grade bonds. Total rate of return swaps are subject to risks related to changes in interest rates, credit spreads, credit quality and expected recovery rates of the underlying credit instrument as well as renewal risks. We enter into total rate of return swaps ("TRS") to finance certain of our investments. TRS are subject to risks related to changes in interest rates, credit spreads, credit quality and expected recovery rates of the underlying credit instrument as well as renewal risks. A TRS agreement is a two-party contract under which an agreement is made to exchange returns from predetermined investments or instruments. TRS allow investors to gain exposure to an underlying credit instrument without actually owning the credit instrument. In these swaps, the total return (interest, fixed fees and capital gains/losses on an underlying credit instrument) is paid to an investor in exchange for a floating rate payment. The investor advances a portion of the notional amount of the TRS which serves as collateral for the TRS counterparty. The TRS, therefore, is a leveraged investment in the underlying credit instrument. The gross returns to be exchanged or "swapped" between the parties are calculated based on a "notional amount," which is valued monthly to determine each party's obligation under the contract. We recognize all cash flows received (paid) or receivable (payable) from swap transactions, together with the change in the market value of the underlying credit instrument, on a net basis as realized or unrealized gains or losses in our consolidated statement of operations. We are charged a finance cost by counterparties with respect to each agreement. The finance cost is reported as part of the realized or unrealized gains or losses. Because swap maturities may not correspond with the maturities of the credit instruments underlying the swap, we may wish to renew many of the swaps as they mature. However, there is a limited number of providers of such swaps, and there is no assurance the initial swap providers will choose to renew the swaps, and, if they do not renew, that we would be able to obtain suitable replacement providers. Credit default swaps are subject to risks related to changes in credit spreads, credit quality and expected recovery rates of the underlying credit instrument. Credit default swaps ("CDS") are subject to risks related to changes in interest rates, credit spreads, credit quality and expected recovery rates of the underlying credit instrument. A CDS is a contract in which the contract buyer pays, in the case of a short position, or receives, in the case of a long position, a periodic premium until the contract expires or a credit event occurs. In return for this premium, the contract seller receives a payment from, in the case of a short position, or makes a payment to, in the case of a long position, the buyer if there is a credit default or other specified credit event with respect to the issuer of the underlying credit instrument referenced in the CDS. Our dependence on the management of other entities may adversely affect our business. We do not control the management, investment decisions or operations of the enterprises in which we invest. Management of those enterprises may decide to change the nature of their assets, or management may otherwise change in a manner that is not satisfactory to us. We typically have no ability to affect these management decisions and we may have only limited ability to dispose of our investments. Due diligence conducted by our Manager may not reveal all of the risks of the businesses in which we invest. Before making an investment in a business entity, our Manager typically assesses the strength and skills of the entity's management and other factors that it believes will determine the success of the 26 Table of Contents investment. In making the assessment and otherwise conducting due diligence, our Manager relies on the resources available to it and, in some cases, an investigation by third parties. This process is particularly important and subjective with respect to newly organized entities because there may be little or no information publicly available about the entities. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that this due diligence processes will uncover all relevant facts or that any investment will be successful. In addition, we may pursue investments without obtaining access to confidential information otherwise in the possession of KKR or one of its affiliates, which information, if reviewed, might otherwise impact our judgment with respect to such investments. Risks Related to our Organization and Structure Maintenance of our Investment Company Act exemption imposes limits on our operations, which may adversely affect our results of operations. We are organized as a holding company that conducts its operations primarily through majority-owned subsidiaries and we intend to continue to conduct our operations so that we are not required to register as an investment company under the 1940 Act. Section 3(a)(1)(C) of the 1940 Act defines an investment company as any issuer that is engaged or proposes to engage in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities and owns or proposes to acquire "investment securities" (within the meaning of the 1940 Act) having a value exceeding 40% of the value of the issuer's total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis (the "40% test"). Excluded from the term "investment securities" are, among others, securities issued by majority-owned subsidiaries unless the subsidiary is an investment company or relies on the exceptions from the definition of an investment company provided by Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) of the 1940 Act (a "fund"). The 1940 Act defines a "majority-owned subsidiary" of a person as any company 50% or more of the outstanding voting securities (i.e., those securities presently entitling the holder thereof to vote for the election of directors of the company) of which are owned by that person, or by another company that is, itself, a majority-owned subsidiary of that person. We are responsible for determining whether any of our subsidiaries is majority-owned. We treat subsidiaries in which we own at least 50% of the outstanding voting securities, including those that issue collateralized loan obligations or "CLOs", as majority-owned for purposes of the 40% test. We monitor our holdings regularly to confirm our continued compliance with the 40% test. Some of our subsidiaries may rely solely on Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) of the 1940 Act. In order for us to satisfy the 40% test, securities issued to us by those subsidiaries or any of our subsidiaries that are not majority-owned, together with any other "investment securities" that we may own, may not have a combined value in excess of 40% of the value of our total assets on an unconsolidated basis and exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items. However, most of our subsidiaries rely on exceptions provided by provisions of, and rules and regulations promulgated under, the 1940 Act (other than Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) of the 1940 Act) to avoid being defined and regulated as an investment company. In order to conform to these exceptions, our subsidiaries may be limited with respect to the assets in which each of them can invest and/or the types of securities each of them may issue. We must, therefore, monitor each subsidiary's compliance with its applicable exception and our freedom of action, and that of our subsidiaries, may be limited as a result. For example, our subsidiaries that issue CLOs generally rely on Rule 3a-7 under 1940 Act, while KKR Financial Holdings II, LLC, or "KFH II," our subsidiary that is taxed as a real estate investment trust or "REIT," for U.S. federal income tax purposes, generally relies on Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the 1940 Act. Each of these exceptions requires, among other things that the subsidiary (i) not issue redeemable securities and (ii) engage in the business of holding certain types of assets, consistent with the terms of the exception. We do not treat our interests in majority-owned subsidiaries that rely on Section 3(c)(5)(C) of, or Rule 3a-7 under, the 1940 Act as investment securities when calculating our 40% test. 27 Table of Contents We sometimes refer to our subsidiaries that rely on Rule 3a-7 under the 1940 Act as "CLO subsidiaries." Rule 3a-7 under the 1940 Act is available to certain structured financing vehicles that are engaged in the business of holding financial assets that, by their terms, convert into cash within a finite time period and that issue fixed income securities entitling holders to receive payments that depend primarily on the cash flows from these assets, provided that, among other things, the structured finance vehicle does not engage in certain portfolio management practices resembling those employed by mutual funds. Accordingly, each of these CLO subsidiaries is subject to an indenture (or similar transaction documents) that contains specific guidelines and restrictions limiting the discretion of the CLO subsidiary and its collateral manager. In particular, these guidelines and restrictions prohibit the CLO subsidiary from acquiring and disposing of assets primarily for the purpose of recognizing gains or decreasing losses resulting from market value changes. Thus, a CLO subsidiary cannot acquire or dispose of assets primarily to enhance returns to the owner of the equity in the CLO subsidiary; however, subject to this limitation, sales and purchases of assets may be made so long as doing so does not violate guidelines contained in the CLO subsidiary's relevant transaction documents. A CLO subsidiary generally can, for example, sell an asset if the collateral manager believes that its credit quality has declined since its acquisition or that the credit profile of the obligor will deteriorate and the proceeds of permitted dispositions may be reinvested in additional collateral, subject to fulfilling the requirements set forth in Rule 3a-7 under the 1940 Act and the CLO subsidiary's relevant transaction documents. As a result of these restrictions, our CLO subsidiaries may suffer losses on their assets and we may suffer losses on our investments in those CLO subsidiaries. We sometimes refer to KFH II, our subsidiary that relies on Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the 1940 Act, as our "REIT subsidiary." Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the 1940 Act is available to companies that are primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate. While the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") has not promulgated rules to address precisely what is required for a company to be considered to be "primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate," the SEC's Division of Investment Management, or the "Division," has taken the position, through a series of no-action and interpretive letters, that a company may rely on Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the 1940 Act if, among other things, at least 55% of the company's assets consist of mortgage loans and other assets that are considered the functional equivalent of mortgage loans (collectively, "qualifying real estate assets"), and at least 25% of the company's assets consist of real estate-related assets (reduced by the excess of the company's qualifying real estate assets over the required 55%), leaving no more than 20% of the company's assets to be invested in miscellaneous assets. The Division has also provided guidance as to the types of assets that can be considered qualifying real estate assets. Because the Division's interpretive letters are not binding except as they relate to the companies to whom they are addressed, if the Division were to change its position as to, among other things, what assets might constitute qualifying real estate assets our REIT subsidiary might be required to change its investment strategy to comply with the changed position. We cannot predict whether such a change would be adverse. Based on current guidance, our REIT subsidiary classifies investments in mortgage loans as qualifying real estate assets, as long as the loans are "fully secured" by an interest in real estate on which we retain the right to foreclose. That is, if the loan-to-value ratio of the loan is equal to or less than 100%, then the mortgage loan is considered to be a qualifying real estate asset. Mortgage loans with loan-to-value ratios in excess of 100% are considered to be only real estate-related assets. Our REIT subsidiary considers agency whole pool certificates to be qualifying real estate assets. Examples of agencies that issue whole pool certificates are the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and the Government National Mortgage Association. An agency whole pool certificate is a certificate issued or guaranteed as to principal and interest by the U.S. government or by a federally chartered entity, that represents the entire beneficial interest in the underlying pool of mortgage loans. By contrast, an agency certificate that represents less than the 28 Table of Contents entire beneficial interest in the underlying mortgage loans is not considered to be a qualifying real estate asset, but is considered to be a real estate-related asset. Most non-agency mortgage-backed securities do not constitute qualifying real estate assets, because they represent less than the entire beneficial interest in the related pool of mortgage loans; however, based on Division guidance where our REIT subsidiary's investment in non-agency mortgage-backed securities is the "functional equivalent" of owning the underlying mortgage loans, our REIT subsidiary may treat those securities as qualifying real estate assets. Moreover, investments in mortgage-backed securities that do not constitute qualifying real estate assets will be classified as real estate-related assets. Therefore, based upon the specific terms and circumstances related to each non-agency mortgage-backed security that our REIT subsidiary owns, our REIT subsidiary will make a determination of whether that security should be classified as a qualifying real estate asset or as a real estate-related asset; and there may be instances where a security is recharacterized from being a qualifying real estate asset to a real estate-related asset, or conversely, from being a real estate-related asset to being a qualifying real estate asset based upon the acquisition or disposition or redemption of related classes of securities from the same securitization trust. If our REIT subsidiary acquires securities that, collectively, receive all of the principal and interest paid on the related pool of underlying mortgage loans (less fees, such as servicing and trustee fees, and expenses of the securitization), and that subsidiary has foreclosure rights with respect to those mortgage loans, then our REIT subsidiary will consider those securities, collectively, to be qualifying real estate assets. If another entity acquires any of the securities that are expected to receive cash flow from the underlying mortgage loans, then our REIT subsidiary will consider whether it has appropriate foreclosure rights with respect to the underlying loans and whether its investment is a first loss position in deciding whether these securities should be classified as qualifying real estate assets. If our REIT subsidiary owns more than one subordinate class, then, to determine the classification of subordinate classes other than the first loss class, our REIT subsidiary will consider whether such classes are contiguous with the first loss class (with no other classes absorbing losses after the first loss class and before any other subordinate classes that our REIT subsidiary owns), whether our REIT subsidiary owns the entire amount of each such class and whether our REIT subsidiary would continue to have appropriate foreclosure rights in connection with each such class if the more subordinate classes were no longer outstanding. If the answers to any of these questions is no, then our REIT subsidiary would expect not to classify that particular class, or classes senior to that class, as qualifying real estate assets. As noted above, if the combined values of the investment securities issued by our subsidiaries that must rely on Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) of the 1940 Act, together with any other investment securities we may own, exceeds 40% of the value of our total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis, we may be deemed to be an investment company. If we fail to maintain an exception, exemption or other exclusion from the 1940 Act, we could, among other things, be required either (i) to change substantially the manner in which we conduct our operations to avoid being subject to the 1940 Act or (ii) to register as an investment company. Either of these would likely have a material adverse effect on us, our ability to service our indebtedness and to make distributions on our shares, and on the market price of our shares and any other securities we may issue. If we were required to register as an investment company under the 1940 Act, we would become subject to substantial regulation with respect to our capital structure (including our ability to use leverage), management, operations, transactions with certain affiliated persons (within the meaning of the 1940 Act), portfolio composition (including restrictions with respect to diversification and industry concentration) and other matters. Additionally, our Manager would have the right to terminate our management agreement. Moreover, if we were required to register as an investment company, we would no longer be eligible to be treated as a partnership for United States federal income tax purposes. Instead, we would be classified as a corporation for tax purposes and would be able to avoid corporate taxation only to the extent that we were able to elect and qualify as a regulated investment company ("RIC") under applicable tax rules. Because our eligibility for RIC 29 Table of Contents status would depend on our investments and sources of income at the time that we were required to register as an investment company, there can be no assurance that we would be able to qualify as a RIC. If we were to lose partnership status and fail to qualify as a RIC, we would be taxed as a regular corporation. See "Partnership Tax Matters—Qualifying Income Exception." We have not requested approval or guidance from the SEC or its staff with respect to our 1940 Act determinations, including, in particular: our treatment of any subsidiary as majority-owned; the compliance of subsidiary with Section 3(c)(5)(C) of, or Rule 3a-7 under, the 1940 Act, including any subsidiary's determinations with respect to the consistency of its assets or operations with the requirements thereof; or whether our investments in one or more subsidiaries constitute investment securities for purposes of the 40% test. If the SEC were to disagree with our treatment of one or more subsidiaries as being excepted from the 1940 Act pursuant to Rule 3a-7 or Section 3(c)(5)(C), or with our determination that one or more of our other investments do not constitute investment securities for purposes of the 40% test, we and/or one or more of our subsidiaries would need to adjust our investment strategies or investments in order for us to continue to pass the 40% test or register as an investment company, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Moreover, we may be required to adjust our investment strategy and investments if the SEC or its staff provides more specific or different guidance regarding the application of relevant provisions of, and rules under, the 1940 Act. Such guidance could provide additional flexibility, or it could further inhibit our ability, or the ability of a subsidiary, to pursue a chosen investment strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on us. If the SEC or a court of competent jurisdiction were to find that we were required, but failed, to register as an investment company in violation of the 1940 Act, we would have to cease business activities, we would breach representations and warranties and/or be in default as to certain of our contracts and obligations, civil or criminal actions could be brought against us, our contracts would be unenforceable unless a court were to require enforcement and a court could appoint a receiver to take control of us and liquidate our business, any or all of which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Shares We may not be able to maintain the listing of our common shares with the New York Stock Exchange. On December 30, 2008, we received written notice from the NYSE that we had fallen below the continued listing standard regarding price criteria for common shares under Section 802.01C of the NYSE's Listed Company Manual. Section 802.01C requires that our common shares have a minimum average closing price of $1.00 per share during a consecutive 30-day trading period. Under the NYSE's applicable rules and regulations regarding listed security average closing price, we have 6 months from the date of the notice to bring the average closing price of our common shares back above $1.00 during a consecutive 30-day trading period. There can be no assurances that we will be able to maintain our listing. If our common shares are delisted from the NYSE, they may trade in the over-the-counter market. Securities traded in the over-the-counter market generally have significantly less liquidity than securities traded on a national securities exchange, through factors such as a reduction in the number of investors that will consider investing in the securities, the number of market makers in the securities, reduction in securities analyst and news media coverage and lower market prices than might otherwise be obtained. As a result, in the event of a delisting, holders of our common shares may find it difficult to resell their shares at prices quoted in the market or at all. Furthermore, because of the limited market and generally low volume of trading in our common shares that could occur, the share price of our common shares could be more likely to be affected by broad market fluctuations, general market conditions, fluctuations in our operating results, changes in the markets perception of our business, and announcements made by us, our competitors or parties with whom we have business relationships. 30 Table of Contents Investors may also determine to exit our common shares as a result of the delisting of our common shares, which could depress the share price. In some cases, we may also be subject to additional compliance requirements under applicable state laws in the issuance of our securities. The lack of liquidity in our common shares may also make it difficult for us to issue additional securities for financing or other purposes, or to otherwise arrange for any financing we may need in the future. Certain provisions of our operating agreement will make it difficult for third parties to acquire control of us and could deprive holders of our shares of the opportunity to obtain a takeover premium for their shares. Our operating agreement contains a number of provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or may discourage a third party from acquiring, control of us. These provisions include, among others: •restrictions on our ability to enter into certain transactions with major holders of our shares modeled on the limitation contained in Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law ("DGCL"); •allowing only our board of directors to fill newly created directorships; •requiring that directors may be removed only for cause (as defined in the operating agreement) and then only by a vote of at least two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast in the election of directors; •requiring advance notice for holders of our shares to nominate candidates for election to our board of directors or to propose matters to be considered by holders of our shares at a meeting of holders of our shares; •our ability to issue additional securities, including, but not limited to, preferred shares, without approval by holders of our shares; •a prohibition on any person directly or indirectly owning more than 9.8% in value or number of our shares, whichever is more restrictive; •the ability of our board of directors to amend the operating agreement without approval of the holders of our shares except under certain specified circumstances; and •limitations on the ability of holders of our shares to call special meetings of holders of our shares or to act by written consent. These provisions, as well as other provisions in the operating agreement, may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might otherwise result in holders of our shares obtaining a takeover premium for their shares. Certain provisions of the Management Agreement also could make it more difficult for third parties to acquire control of us by various means, including limitations on our right to terminate the Management Agreement and a requirement that, under certain circumstances, we make a substantial payment to the Manager in the event of a termination. 31 Table of Contents We may issue additional debt and equity securities which are senior to our common shares as to distributions and upon our dissolution, which could materially adversely affect the market price of our shares. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by entering into additional debt or debt-like financings that are secured by all or some of our assets, or issuing debt or equity securities, which could include issuances of secured liquidity notes, medium-term notes, senior notes, subordinated notes or preferred and common shares. In the event of our dissolution, our lenders and holders of our debt securities would receive a distribution of our available assets before distributions to holders of our common or preferred shares. Any preferred shares may have a preference over our common shares with respect to distributions and upon dissolution, which could further limit our ability to make distributions to holders of our common shares. Because our decision to incur debt and issue shares in any future offerings will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings or our future debt and equity financings. Further, market conditions could require us to accept less favorable terms for the issuance of our securities in the future, including, but not limited to, issuing common shares at a discount to market value. Accordingly, holders of our shares and of any securities we may issue whose value is linked to the value of our shares will bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the value of their shares or any such other securities and diluting their interest in us. In addition, we can change our leverage strategy and investment policies from time to time without approval of holders of any of our shares, which could adversely affect the market price of our shares. Our board of directors has broad authority to change many of the terms of our shares without the approval of holders of our shares. Our operating agreement gives our board of directors broad authority to effect amendments to the provisions of our operating agreement that could change many of the terms of our shares without the consent of holders of our shares. As a result, our board of directors may, without the approval of holders of our shares, make changes to many of the terms of our shares that are adverse to the holders of our shares. Our board of directors has full authority and discretion over distributions on our shares and it may decide to reduce or eliminate distributions at any time, which may adversely affect the market price for our shares and any other securities we may issue. Our board of directors has full authority and discretion to determine whether or not a distribution will be declared and paid, and the amount and timing of any distribution that may be paid, to holders of our common shares and (unless otherwise provided by our board of directors if and when it establishes the terms of any new class or series of our shares) any other class or series of shares we may issue in the future. Our board of directors may, based on its review of our financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and other factors it deems relevant, determine to reduce or eliminate distributions on our common shares and (unless otherwise so provided by our board of directors) any other class or series of shares we may issue in the future, which may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common shares, any such other shares and any other securities we may issue. In addition, in computing United States federal income tax liability for a taxable year, each holder of our shares will be required to take into account its allocable share of items of our income, gain, loss, deduction and credit for our taxable year ending within or with such holder's taxable year, regardless of whether such holder has received any distributions. As a result, it is possible that a holder's United States federal income tax liability with respect to its allocable share of these items in a particular taxable year could exceed the cash distributions received by such holder. In addition, as discussed above under "—Risks Related to our Organization and Structure—The terms of our indebtedness may restrict our ability to make future distributions and impose limitations 32 Table of Contents on our current and future operations," our credit facility includes covenants that restricts our ability to make distributions on, and to redeem or repurchase, our shares, including a prohibition on distributions on, and redemptions and repurchases of, our shares if an event of default, or certain events that with notice or passage of time or both would constitute an event of default, under the credit facility occur and a requirement that we maintain a specified minimum level of consolidated tangible net worth. In addition, our credit facility contains a covenant which limits our ability to make distributions to our shareholders in an amount in excess of what would be required to pay all federal, state and local income taxes arising from the taxable income and gain that our shareholders incur in connection with the ownership of our common shares as described below under "Holders of our shares will be subject to United States federal income tax on their share of our taxable income, regardless of whether or when they receive any cash distributions from us, and may recognize income in excess of our cash distributions". Risks Related to Our Management and Our Relationship with Our Manager We are highly dependent on our Manager and may not find a suitable replacement if our Manager terminates the Management Agreement. We have no employees. Our Manager, and its officers and employees, allocate a portion of their time to businesses and activities that are not related to, or affiliated with, us and, accordingly, do not spend all of their time managing our activities and our investment portfolio. We expect that the portion of our Manager's time that is allocated to other businesses and activities will increase in the future as our Manager and KKR expand their investment focus to include additional investment vehicles, including vehicles which compete more directly with us, which time allocations may be material. We have no separate facilities and are completely reliant on our Manager, which has significant discretion as to the implementation and execution of our business and investment strategies and our risk management practices. We are also subject to the risk that our Manager will terminate the Management Agreement and that no suitable replacement will be found. We believe that our success depends to a significant extent upon the experience of our Manager's executive officers, whose continued service is not guaranteed. The departure of any of the senior management and investment professionals of our Manager or the loss of our access to KKR's senior management and investment professionals may adversely affect our ability to achieve our investment objectives. We depend on the diligence, skill and network of business contacts of the senior management and investment professionals of our Manager. We also depend on our Manager's access to the investment professionals and senior management of KKR and the information and deal flow generated by the KKR investment professionals and senior management during the normal course of their investment and portfolio management activities. The senior management and the investment professionals of our Manager evaluate, negotiate, structure, close and monitor our investments. Our future success will depend on the continued service of the senior management team and investment professionals of our Manager. The departure of any of the senior management or investment professionals of our Manager, or of a significant number of the investment professionals or senior management of KKR, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objectives. In addition, we can offer no assurance that our Manager will remain our Manager or that we will continue to have access to KKR's investment professionals or senior management or KKR's information and deal flow. If our Manager ceases to be our manager pursuant to the Management Agreement, financial institutions providing our credit facilities may not provide future financing to us. The financial institutions that finance our investments may require that our Manager continue to manage our operations pursuant to the Management Agreement as a condition to making continued advances to us under these credit facilities. Additionally, if our Manager ceases to be our manager, 33 Table of Contents each of these financial institutions under these credit facilities may terminate their facility and their obligation to advance funds to us in order to finance our current and future investments. If our Manager ceases to be our manager for any reason and we are not able to continue to obtain financing under these or suitable replacement credit facilities, our growth may be limited or we may be forced to sell our investments at a loss. Our Manager has limited experience in managing a specialty finance company, and our investment focus differs from those of most other KKR funds. Even though our Manager is affiliated with KKR, our investment focus as a specialty finance company differs from that of other entities that are or have been managed by KKR investment professionals. In particular, no entity managed by KKR has executed a business strategy that focuses primarily on investing in debt and debt-like instruments. Our investors are not acquiring an interest in any of KKR's private equity funds and the returns that are realized by our investors may be materially different than the returns realized by investors in KKR's private equity funds. Our board of directors has approved very broad Investment Guidelines for our Manager and does not approve individual investment decisions made by our Manager except in limited circumstances. Our Manager is authorized to follow very broad Investment Guidelines and, as described above, in connection with the conversion transaction, these Investment Guidelines were revised to provide even greater latitude to our Manager with respect to certain matters relating to transactions with our affiliates. Our directors periodically review and approve our Investment Guidelines. Our board of directors does not approve any individual investments, other than approving a limited set of transactions with affiliates that require the pre-approval of the Affiliated Transactions Committee of our board of directors. Furthermore, transactions entered into by our Manager may be difficult or impossible to terminate or unwind. Our Manager has material latitude within the broad parameters of the Investment Policies in determining the types of assets it may decide are proper investments for us. Certain of our investments may create a conflict of interest with KKR and other affiliates and may expose us to additional certain legal risks. Subject to complying with our Investment Policies and the charter of the Affiliated Transactions Committee of our board of directors, a core element of our business strategy is that our Manager will at times cause us to invest in corporate leveraged loans, high-yield securities and equity securities of companies affiliated with KKR, provided that such investments meet our requirements. To the extent KKR is the owner of a majority of the outstanding equity securities of such companies, KKR may have the ability to elect all of the members of the board of directors of a company we invest in and thereby control its policies and operations, including the appointment of management, future issuances of shares or other securities, the payments of dividends, if any, on its shares, the incurrence of debt by it, amendments to its certificate of incorporation and bylaws and entering into extraordinary transactions, and KKR's interests may not in all cases be aligned with the interests of the holders of the securities we own. In addition, with respect to companies in which we have an equity investment, to the extent that KKR is the controlling shareholder it may be able to determine the outcome of all matters requiring shareholder approval and will generally be able to cause or prevent a change of control of a company we invest in or a change in the composition of its board of directors and could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of that company regardless as to whether we agree with such determination. So long as KKR continues to own a significant amount of the voting power of a company we invest in, even if such amount is less than 50%, it will continue to influence strongly, or effectively control, that company's decisions. Our interests with respect to the management, investment decisions, or operations of those companies may at times be in conflict with those of KKR. In addition, to the extent that affiliates of our Manager or KKR invest in companies in 34 Table of Contents which we have an investment, similar conflicts between our interests and theirs may arise. In addition, our Manager has implemented policies and procedures to mitigate potential conflicts of interest, which policies impose limitations on our ability to make certain investments in companies affiliated with KKR. Our interests and those of KKR may at times be in conflict because the CLO issuers in which we invest hold corporate leveraged loans the obligors on which are KKR-affiliated companies. KKR may have an interest in causing such companies to pursue acquisitions, divestitures exchange offers, debt restructurings and other transactions that, in KKR's judgment, could enhance its equity investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to holders of indebtedness, which include our CLO issuers. For example, KKR could cause a company that is the obligor on a loan held by one of our CLO issuers to make acquisitions that increase its indebtedness or to sell revenue generating assets, thereby potentially decreasing the ability of the company to repay its debt. In cases where a company's debt undergoes a restructuring, the interests of KKR as an equity investor and our CLO issuers as debt investors may diverge, and KKR may have an interest in pursuing a restructuring strategy that benefits the equity holders to the detriment of the lenders, such as our CLO issuers. This risk may be exacerbated in the current economic environment given reduced liquidity available for debt refinancing, among other factors. If a KKR-affiliated company were to file for bankruptcy or similar action, we face the risk that a court may subordinate our debt investment in such company to the claims of more junior debt holders or may recharacterize our investment as an equity investment. Any such action by a court would have a materials adverse impact on the value of these investments. The incentive fee provided for under the Management Agreement may induce our Manager to make certain investments, including speculative investments. The management compensation structure to which we have agreed with our Manager may cause our Manager to invest in high risk investments or take other risks. In addition to its base management fee, our Manager is entitled to receive incentive compensation based in part upon our achievement of specified levels of net income. In evaluating investments and other management strategies, the opportunity to earn incentive compensation based on net income may lead our Manager to place undue emphasis on the maximization of net income at the expense of other criteria, such as preservation of capital, maintaining sufficient liquidity, and/or management of credit risk or market risk, in order to achieve higher incentive compensation. Investments with higher yield potential are generally riskier or more speculative. In addition, the Compensation Committee of our board of directors may make grants of options and restricted shares to our Manager in the future and the factors considered by the Compensation Committee in making these grants may include performance-related factors which may also induce our Manager to make investments that are riskier or more speculative. This could result in increased risk to the value of our investment portfolio. There are various potential conflicts of interest in our relationship with our Manager and its affiliates, including KKR, which could result in decisions that are not in the best interests of holders of our shares. We are subject to potential conflicts of interest arising out of our relationship with our Manager and its affiliates. As of February 1, 2009, our Manager and its affiliates collectively owned approximately 8.9% of our outstanding common shares on a fully diluted basis. In addition, as of February 1, 2009 our chairman, Paul M. Hazen, who serves as a member of our Manager's investment committee beneficially owned approximately 0.7% of our outstanding common shares on a fully diluted basis, and two of our directors, Scott C. Nuttall, who is an executive at KKR and until February 2009 served as a member of our Manager's investment committee and William C. Sonneborn, who is an executive at KKR and serves as a member of our Manager's investment committee, beneficially owned approximately 0.7% and 0.5% of our outstanding common shares on a fully diluted basis, respectively. 35 Table of Contents For purposes of computing the percentage of shares of our outstanding common shares beneficially owned as of February 1, 2009 by any person or persons on a fully diluted basis, we define beneficial ownership to include securities actually owned by a person or persons and securities over which that person or persons have or share voting or dispositive control, and we have based that calculation on our common shares and options to purchase our common shares outstanding as of February 1, 2009 and have assumed the exercise of all options to purchase our common shares beneficially owned by such person or persons, as the case may be. Our management agreement with our Manager was negotiated between related parties, and its terms, including fees payable, may not be as favorable to us as if it had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. Pursuant to the management agreement, our Manager will not assume any responsibility other than to render the services called for thereunder and will not be responsible for any action of our board of directors in following or declining to follow its advice or recommendations. The management agreement provides that our Manager, its members, managers, officers and employees will not be liable to us, any subsidiary of ours, our directors, holders of our shares or any subsidiary's shareholders for acts or omissions pursuant to or in accordance with the management agreement, except by reason of acts constituting bad faith, willful misconduct, gross negligence, or reckless disregard of their duties under the management agreement. Pursuant to the management agreement, we have agreed to indemnify our Manager and its members, managers, officers and employees and each person controlling our Manager with respect to all expenses, losses, damages, liabilities, demands, charges and claims arising from acts or omissions of such indemnified party not constituting bad faith, willful misconduct, gross negligence, or reckless disregard of duties, performed in good faith in accordance with and pursuant to the management agreement. Affiliates of our Manager and KKR compete with us and there may be conflicts arising from allocation of investment opportunities. Our management agreement with our Manager does not prevent our Manager and its affiliates from engaging in additional management or investment opportunities. While the management agreement generally restricts our Manager and its affiliates from raising, sponsoring or advising any new investment fund, company or other entity, including a REIT, that invests primarily in domestic mortgage-backed securities, this restriction is of significantly less significance now that the Restructuring Transaction has been completed, as we have not elected to be taxed as a REIT for United States federal income tax purposes and therefore will not be limited to investing in assets that would be qualifying assets for a REIT under the Code. In addition, the management agreement provides that, for purposes of the foregoing limitation, any portfolio company of any private equity fund controlled by KKR shall not be deemed to be an affiliate of our Manager. As a result, our Manager and its affiliates, including KKR, currently are engaged in and may in the future engage in management or investment opportunities that have overlapping objectives with us. In particular, affiliates of our Manager currently manage a separate investment fund and separately managed accounts that invest in the same non-mortgage-backed securities investments that we invest in, including other fixed income investments. With respect to these entities and any other competing entities established in the future, our Manager and its affiliates will face conflicts in the allocation of investment opportunities. Such allocation is at the discretion of our Manager in accordance with our Manager's allocation policies and procedures. However, there is no guarantee that this allocation would be made in the best interests of holders of our shares or any other securities we may issue. We compete with other investment entities affiliated with KKR for access to KKR's investment professionals. KKR and its affiliates manage several private equity funds, and we believe that KKR and its affiliates will establish and manage other investment entities in the future. Certain of these investment entities have, and any newly created entities may have, an investment focus similar to our focus, and as a result we compete with those entities and will compete with any such newly created entities for access to the benefits that our relationship with KKR provides to us. Our ability to continue to engage in 36 Table of Contents these types of opportunities in the future depends, to a significant extent, on competing demands for these investment opportunities by other investment entities established by KKR and its affiliates. To the extent that we and other KKR affiliated entities or related parties compete for investment opportunities, there can be no assurances that we will get the best of those opportunities or that the performance of the investments allocated to us, even within the same asset classes, will perform as favorably as those allocated to others. Termination by us of the management agreement with our Manager is difficult and costly. The management agreement expires on December 31 of each year, but is automatically renewed for a one-year term on each December 31 unless terminated upon the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of our independent directors, or by a vote of the holders of a majority of our outstanding common shares, based upon (i) unsatisfactory performance by our Manager that is materially detrimental to us or (ii) a determination that the management fee payable to our Manager is not fair, subject to our Manager's right to prevent such a termination under this clause (ii) by accepting a mutually acceptable reduction of management fees. Our Manager must be provided with 180 days' prior written notice of any such termination and will be paid a termination fee equal to four times the sum of the average annual base management fee and the average annual incentive fee for the two 12-month periods immediately preceding the date of termination, calculated as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal quarter prior to the date of termination. In addition, the base management fees deferred by our Manager through November 30, 2009 will become payable if the management agreement is terminated prior to such date. These provisions would result in substantial cost to us if we terminate the management agreement, thereby adversely affecting our ability to terminate our Manager. Our access to confidential information may restrict our ability to take action with respect to some investments, which, in turn, may negatively affect our results of operations. We, directly or through our Manager, may obtain confidential information about the companies in which we have invested or may invest. If we do possess confidential information about such companies, there may be restrictions on our ability to make, dispose of, increase the amount of, or otherwise take action with respect to, an investment in those companies. Our relationship with KKR could create a conflict of interest to the extent our Manager becomes aware of inside information concerning investments or potential investment targets. We have implemented compliance procedures and practices designed to ensure that inside information is not used for making investment decisions on our behalf. We cannot assure our shareholders, however, that these procedures and practices will be effective. In addition, this conflict and these procedures and practices may limit the freedom of our Manager to make potentially profitable investments, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Conversely, we may pursue investments without obtaining access to confidential information otherwise in the possession of KKR or one of its affiliates, which information, if reviewed, might otherwise impact our judgment with respect to such investments. Our Manager's liability is limited under the management agreement, and we have agreed to indemnify our Manager against certain liabilities. Pursuant to the management agreement, our Manager will not assume any responsibility other than to render the services called for thereunder in good faith and will not be responsible for any action of our board of directors in following or declining to follow its advice or recommendations. Our Manager and its members, managers, officers and employees will not be liable to us, any subsidiary of ours, our directors, our shareholders or any subsidiary's shareholders for acts or omissions pursuant to or performed in accordance with the management agreement, except by reason of acts constituting bad faith, willful misconduct, gross negligence, or reckless disregard of their duties under the management 37 Table of Contents agreement. Pursuant to the management agreement, we have agreed to indemnify our Manager and its members, managers, officers and employees and each person controlling our Manager with respect to all expenses, losses, damages, liabilities, demands, charges and claims arising from acts or omissions of such indemnified party not constituting bad faith, willful misconduct, gross negligence, or reckless disregard of duties, performed in good faith in accordance with and pursuant to the management agreement. Tax Risks Holders of our shares will be subject to United States federal income tax on their share of our taxable income, regardless of whether or when they receive any cash distributions from us, and may recognize income in excess of our cash distributions. We intend to continue to operate so as to qualify, for United States federal income tax purposes, as a partnership and not as an association or a publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation. Holders of our shares are subject to United States federal income taxation and, in some cases, state, local and foreign income taxation, on their allocable share of our items of income, gain, deduction, and credit, regardless of whether or when they receive cash distributions. In addition, certain of our investments, including investments in certain foreign corporate subsidiaries, CLO issuers, including those treated as partnerships or disregarded as a separate entity from us for United States federal income tax purposes, and debt securities, may produce taxable income without corresponding distributions of cash to us or produce taxable income prior to or following the receipt of cash relating to such income. Those investments typically produce ordinary income on a current basis, but any losses we would recognize from those investments would typically be treated as capital losses. Consequently, in some taxable years, holders of our shares may recognize taxable income in excess of our cash distributions, and holders may be allocated capital losses either in the same or future years that cannot be used to offset such taxable income. Furthermore, if we did not pay cash distributions with respect to a taxable year, holders of our shares would still have a tax liability attributable to their allocation of our taxable income. If we fail to satisfy the "qualifying income exception," all of our income will be subject to an entity-level tax, which could result in a material reduction in cash flow and after-tax return for holders of our shares and thus could result in a substantial reduction in the value of our shares and any other securities we may issue. We intend to continue to operate so as to qualify as a partnership, and not as an association or a publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation, for United States federal income tax purposes. In general, if a partnership is "publicly traded" (as defined in the Code), it will be treated as a corporation for United States federal income tax purposes. A publicly traded partnership will, however, be taxed as a partnership, and not as a corporation, for United States federal income tax purposes, so long as it is not required to register under the Investment Company Act and at least 90% of its gross income for each taxable year constitutes "qualifying income" within the meaning of Section 7704(d) of the Code. We refer to this exception as the "qualifying income exception." Qualifying income generally includes rents, dividends, interest (to the extent such interest is neither derived from the "conduct of a financial or insurance business" nor based, directly or indirectly, upon "income or profits" of any person), and capital gains from the sale or other disposition of stocks, bonds and real property. Qualifying income also includes other income derived from the business of investing in, among other things, stocks and securities. If we fail to satisfy the "qualifying income exception" described above, items of income, gain, loss, deduction and credit would not pass through to holders of our shares and such holders would be treated for United States federal (and certain state and local) income tax purposes as shareholders in a corporation. In such case, we would be required to pay income tax at regular corporate rates on all of our income. In addition, we would likely be liable for state and local income and/or franchise taxes on 38 Table of Contents all of our income. Distributions to holders of our shares would constitute ordinary dividend income taxable to such holders to the extent of our earnings and profits, and these distributions would not be deductible by us. If we were taxable as a corporation, it could result in a material reduction in cash flow and after-tax return for holders of our shares and thus could result in a substantial reduction in the value of our shares and any other securities we may issue. Because we are not taxed as a REIT, we are not subject to the same distribution requirements to which our predecessor, the REIT Subsidiary, was subject and therefore we may distribute a lower percentage of our taxable income to the holders of our shares. As a REIT, the REIT Subsidiary was required to distribute at least 90% of its taxable income (subject to certain adjustments) to its shareholders each year in order to maintain its status as a REIT. Because we are not taxed as a REIT, we are not subject to the 90% distribution requirement and our board of directors may therefore determine to distribute a smaller amount of any taxable income we generate to holders of our shares than we would be required to distribute if we were taxed as a REIT. Holders of our shares may recognize gain for United States federal income tax purposes when we sell assets that cause us to recognize a loss for financial reporting purposes. We have elected under Section 754 of the Code to adjust the tax basis in all or a portion of our assets upon certain events, including the sale of our common shares. As a result, each holder that purchased our common shares following the Restructuring Transaction had an initial tax basis in our assets that reflected the fair market value of our assets at the time of the purchase. Because our holders are treated as having differing tax bases in our assets, a sale of an asset by us may cause holders to recognize different amounts of gain or loss or may cause some holders to recognize a gain and others to recognize a loss. Depending on when our shareholders purchased our common shares and the fair market value of our assets at that time, our shareholders may recognize gain for United States federal income tax purposes from the sale of certain of our assets even though the sale would cause us to recognize a loss for financial accounting purposes. The ability of holders of our shares to deduct certain expenses incurred by us may be limited. In general, expenses incurred by us that are considered "miscellaneous itemized deductions" may be deducted by a holder of our shares that is an individual, estate or trust only to the extent that such holder's allocable share of those expenses, along with the holder's other miscellaneous itemized deductions, exceed, in the aggregate, 2% of such holder's adjusted gross income. In addition, these expenses are also not deductible in determining the alternative minimum tax liability of a holder. There are also limitations on the deductibility of itemized deductions by individuals whose adjusted gross income exceeds a specified amount, adjusted annually for inflation. We anticipate that management fees that we pay to our Manager and certain other expenses incurred by us will constitute miscellaneous itemized deductions. A holder's inability to deduct all or a portion of such expenses could result in an amount of taxable income to such holder with respect to us that exceeds the amount of cash actually distributed to such holder for the year. Holders of our shares may recognize a greater taxable gain (or a smaller tax loss) on a disposition of our shares than expected because of the treatment of debt under the partnership tax accounting rules. We will incur debt for a variety of reasons, including for acquisitions as well as other purposes. Under partnership tax accounting principles (which apply to us), our debt is generally allocable to holders of our shares, who will realize the benefit of including their allocable share of the debt in the tax basis of their shares. The tax basis in our shares will be adjusted for, among other things, distributions of cash and allocations of our losses, if any. At the time a holder of our shares later sells its shares, the holder's amount realized on the sale will include not only the sales price of the shares 39 Table of Contents but also will include such holder's portion of debt allocable to those shares (which is treated as proceeds from the sale of those shares). Depending on the nature of our activities after having incurred the debt, and the utilization of the borrowed funds, a later sale of our shares could result in a larger taxable gain (or a smaller tax loss) than anticipated. We could incur a significant tax liability if the IRS successfully asserts that the "anti-stapling" rules apply to certain of our subsidiaries, which could result in a reduction in cash flow and after-tax return for holders of shares and thus could result in a reduction of the value of those shares. If we were subject to the "anti-stapling" rules of Section 269B of the Code, we would incur a significant tax liability as a result of owning (i) more than 50% of the value of both a domestic corporate subsidiary and a foreign corporate subsidiary, or (ii) more than 50% of both a REIT and a domestic or foreign corporate subsidiary. If the "anti-stapling" rules applied, our foreign corporate subsidiaries would be treated as domestic corporations, which would cause those entities to be subject to United States federal corporate income taxation, and any REIT subsidiary would be treated as a single entity with our domestic and foreign corporate subsidiaries for purposes of the REIT qualification requirements, which could result in the REIT Subsidiary failing to qualify as a REIT and being subject to United States federal corporate income taxation. Currently, we have one subsidiary taxed as a REIT (KFH II), two foreign corporate subsidiaries (TRS Ltd. and KFH Ltd.), and one domestic corporate subsidiary (PEI VII). During 2008, we also owned two subsidiaries taxed as REITs (the REIT Subsidiary and QRS #1), one additional domestic corporate subsidiary (KKR Financial Holdings, Inc.), and certain of our CLO issuers were treated as foreign corporate subsidiaries for United States federal income tax purposes. Because we own, or are treated as owning, a substantial proportion of our assets directly for United States federal income tax purposes, we do not believe that the "anti-stapling" rules have applied or will apply. However, there can be no assurance that the IRS would not successfully assert a contrary position, which could result in a reduction in cash flow and after-tax return for holders of shares and thus could result in a reduction of the value of those shares. Tax-exempt holders of our shares will likely recognize significant amounts of "unrelated business taxable income," the amount of which may be material. An organization that is otherwise exempt from United States federal income tax is nonetheless subject to taxation with respect to its "unrelated business taxable income" ("UBTI"). Because we have incurred "acquisition indebtedness" with respect to certain equity and debt securities we hold (either directly or indirectly through subsidiaries that are treated as partnerships or disregarded for United States federal income tax purposes), a proportionate share of a holder's income from us with respect to such securities will be treated as UBTI. Accordingly, tax-exempt holders of our shares will likely recognize significant amounts of UBTI. For certain types of tax-exempt entities, the receipt of any UBTI might have extremely adverse consequences. For example, for a charitable remainder trust, the receipt of any such taxable income during a taxable year results in the taxation of all of the trust's income from all sources for such year. Tax-exempt holders of our shares are strongly urged to consult their tax advisors regarding the tax consequences of owning our shares. There can be no assurance that the IRS will not assert successfully that some portion of our income is properly treated as effectively connected income with respect to non-United States holders of our shares. While it is expected that our method of operation will not result in the generation of significant amounts of income treated as effectively connected with the conduct of a United States trade or business with respect to non-United States holders of our shares, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not assert successfully that some portion of our income is properly treated as effectively connected income with respect to such non-United States holders. To the extent our income is treated as effectively connected income, non-United States holders generally would be required to (i) file a 40 Table of Contents United States federal income tax return for such year reporting their allocable portion, if any, of our income or loss effectively connected with such trade or business and (ii) pay United States federal income tax at regular United States tax rates on any such income. Non-United States holders that are corporations also would be required to pay branch profits tax at a 30% rate (or lower rate provided by applicable treaty). Although we anticipate that our foreign corporate subsidiaries will not be subject to United States federal income tax on a net basis, no assurance can be given that such subsidiaries will not be subject to United States federal income tax on a net basis in any given taxable year. We anticipate that our foreign corporate subsidiaries, including TRS Ltd. and KFH Ltd. will generally continue to conduct their activities in such a way as not to be deemed to be engaged in a United States trade or business and not to be subject to United States federal income tax. There can be no assurance, however, that our foreign corporate subsidiaries will not pursue investments or engage in activities that may cause them to be engaged in a United States trade or business. Moreover, there can be no assurance that as a result of any change in applicable law, treaty, rule or regulation or interpretation thereof, the activities of any of our foreign corporate subsidiaries would not become subject to United States federal income tax. Further, there can be no assurance that unanticipated activities of our foreign subsidiaries would not cause such subsidiaries to become subject to United States federal income tax. If any of our foreign corporate subsidiaries became subject to United States federal income tax (including the United States branch profits tax), it would significantly reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to us, which in turn could have an adverse impact on the value of our shares and any other securities we may issue. Our foreign corporate subsidiaries are generally not expected to be subject to United States federal income tax on a net basis, and such subsidiaries may receive income that is subject to withholding taxes imposed by the United States or other countries. Certain of our investments may subject us to United States federal income tax and could have negative tax consequences for our shareholders. A portion of our distributions likely will constitute "excess inclusion income." Excess inclusion income is generated by residual interests in REMICs and taxable mortgage pool arrangements owned by REITs. We own through a disregarded entity a small number of REMIC residual interests. In addition, KFH II has entered into financing arrangements that may be treated as taxable mortgage pools. We will be taxable at the highest corporate income tax rate on any excess inclusion income from a REMIC residual interest that is allocable to the percentage of our shares held in record name by disqualified organizations. Although the law is not clear, we may also be subject to that tax if the excess inclusion income arises from a taxable mortgage pool arrangement owned by a REIT in which we invest. Disqualified organizations are generally certain cooperatives, governmental entities and tax-exempt organizations that are exempt from unrelated business taxable income (including certain state pension plans and charitable remainder trusts). They are permitted to own our shares. Because this tax would be imposed on us, all of our investors, including investors that are not disqualified organizations, would bear a portion of the tax cost associated with our ownership of REMIC residual interests and with the classification of any of our REIT subsidiaries or a portion of the assets of any of our REIT subsidiaries as a taxable mortgage pool. A regulated investment company or other pass-through entity owning our shares may also be subject to tax at the highest corporate rate on any excess inclusion income allocated to their record name owners that are disqualified organizations. Nominees who hold our shares on behalf of disqualified organizations also potentially may be subject to this tax. Excess inclusion income cannot be offset by losses of our shareholders. If the shareholder is a tax-exempt entity and not a disqualified organization, then this income would be fully taxable as 41 Table of Contents unrelated business taxable income under Section 512 of the Code. If the shareholder is a foreign person, it would be subject to United States federal income tax withholding on this income without reduction or exemption pursuant to any otherwise applicable income tax treaty. Dividends paid by, and certain income inclusions derived with respect to, our ownership of KFH II and foreign corporate subsidiaries will not qualify for the reduced tax rates generally applicable to corporate dividends paid to taxpayers taxed at individual rates. Tax legislation enacted in 2003 and 2006 reduced the maximum United States federal income tax rate on certain corporate dividends payable to taxpayers taxed at individual rates to 15% through 2010. Dividends payable by, or certain income inclusions derived with respect to the ownership of, passive foreign investment companies ("PFICs"), certain controlled foreign corporations ("CFCs"), and REITs, however, are generally not eligible for the reduced rates. We have treated and intend to continue to treat our foreign corporate subsidiaries, including TRS Ltd. and KFH Ltd. for United States federal income tax purposes, as the type of CFCs whose income inclusions are not eligible for lower tax rates on dividend income. Although this legislation does not generally change the taxation of our foreign corporate subsidiaries and REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause investors taxed at individual rates to perceive investments in PFICs, CFCs or REITs, or in companies such as us, whose holdings include foreign corporations and REITs, to be relatively less attractive than holdings in the stocks of non-CFC, non-PFIC and non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of our shares and any other securities we may issue. Ownership limitations in the operating agreement that apply so long as we own an interest in a REIT, such as KFH II, may restrict a change of control in which our holders might receive a premium for their shares. In order for KFH II to continue to qualify as REITs, no more than 50% in value of its outstanding capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals during the last half of any calendar year and its shares must be beneficially owned by 100 or more persons during at least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months or during a proportionate part of a shorter taxable year. "Individuals" for this purpose include natural persons, private foundations, some employee benefit plans and trusts, and some charitable trusts. We intend for KFH II to be owned, directly or indirectly, by us and by holders of the preferred shares issued by KFH II. In order to preserve the REIT status of KFH II and any future REIT subsidiary, the operating agreement generally prohibits any person from directly or indirectly owning more than 9.8% in value or in number of our shares, whichever is more restrictive. This restriction may be terminated by our board of directors if it determines that it is no longer in our best interests for KFH II or any other REIT subsidiary to continue to qualify as a REIT under the Code or that compliance with those restrictions is no longer required, and our board of directors may also, in its sole discretion, exempt a person from this restriction. The ownership limitation could have the effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction in which holders of our shares might receive a premium for their shares over the then prevailing market price or which holders might believe to be otherwise in their best interests. The failure of KFH II to qualify as a REIT would generally cause it to be subject to United States federal income tax on its taxable income, which could result in a material reduction in cash flow and after-tax return for holders of our shares and thus could result in a reduction of the value of those shares and any other securities we may issue. We intend that KFH II will continue to operate in a manner so as to qualify to be taxed as a REIT for United States federal income tax purposes. No ruling from the IRS, however, has been or will be sought with regard to the treatment of KFH II as a REIT for United States federal income tax purposes, and its ability to qualify as a REIT depends on its satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, shareholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. 42 Table of Contents Accordingly, no assurance can be given that KFH II will satisfy such requirements for any particular taxable year. If KFH II were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, it would be subject to United States federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on its net taxable income at regular corporate rates, and distributions would not be deductible by it in computing its taxable income. Any such corporate tax liability could be substantial and could materially reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to us, which in turn would materially reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to holders of our shares and could have an adverse impact on the value of those shares and any other securities we may issue. Unless entitled to relief under certain Code provisions, KFH II also would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which they ceased to qualify as REITs. Complying with certain tax-related requirements may cause us and KFH II to forego otherwise attractive business or investment opportunities. To be treated as a partnership for United States federal income tax purposes, and not as an association or publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation, we must satisfy the qualifying income exception, which requires that at least 90% of our gross income each taxable year consist of interest, dividends, capital gains and other types of "qualifying income." Interest income will not be qualifying income for the qualifying income exception if it is derived from "the conduct of a financial or insurance business." This requirement limits our ability to originate loans or acquire loans originated by our Manager and its affiliates. In addition, we intend to operate so as to avoid generating a significant amount of income that is treated as effectively connected with the conduct of a United States trade or business with respect to non-United States holders. In order to comply with these requirements, we (or our subsidiaries) may be required to invest through foreign or domestic corporations or forego attractive business or investment opportunities. Thus, compliance with these requirements may adversely affect our return on our investments and results of operations. In addition, to qualify as a REIT for United States federal income tax purposes, KFH II must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of its income, the nature and diversification of its assets, the amounts it distributes to its stockholders and the ownership of its stock. In order to meet these tests, KFH II may be required to forego attractive business or investment opportunities. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may adversely affect KFH II's return on its investments and results of operations. The IRS Schedules K-1 we will provide will be significantly more complicated than the IRS Forms 1099 provided by REITs and regular corporations, and holders of our shares may be required to request an extension of the time to file their tax returns. Holders of our shares are required to take into account their allocable share of items of our income, gain, loss, deduction and credit for our taxable year ending within or with their taxable year. We will use reasonable efforts to furnish holders of our shares with tax information (including IRS Schedule K-1) as promptly as possible, which describes their allocable share of such items for our preceding taxable year. However, we may not be able to provide holders of our shares with tax information on a timely basis. Because holders of our shares will be required to report their allocable share of each item of our income, gain, loss, deduction, and credit on their tax returns, tax reporting for holders of our shares will be significantly more complicated than for shareholders in a REIT or a regular corporation. In addition, delivery of this information to holders of our shares will be subject to delay in the event of, among other reasons, the late receipt of any necessary tax information from an investment in which we hold an interest. It is therefore possible that, in any taxable year, holders of our shares will need to apply for extensions of time to file their tax returns. 43 Table of Contents Our structure involves complex provisions of United States federal income tax law for which no clear precedent or authority may be available, and which is subject to potential change, possibly on a retroactive basis. Any such change could result in adverse consequences to the holders of our shares and any other securities we may issue. The United States federal income tax treatment of holders of our shares depends in some instances on determinations of fact and interpretations of complex provisions of United States federal income tax law for which no clear precedent or authority may be available. The United States federal income tax rules are constantly under review by the IRS, resulting in revised interpretations of established concepts. The IRS pays close attention to the proper application of tax laws to partnerships and investments in foreign entities. The present United States federal income tax treatment of an investment in our shares may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time, and any such action may affect investments and commitments previously made. We and holders of our shares could be adversely affected by any such change in, or any new tax law, regulation or interpretation. Our operating agreement permits our board of directors to modify (subject to certain exceptions) the operating agreement from time to time, without the consent of the holders of our shares. These modifications may address, among other things, certain changes in United States federal income tax regulations, legislation or interpretation. In some circumstances, such revisions could have an adverse impact on some or all of the holders of our shares and of other securities we may issue. Moreover, we intend to apply certain assumptions and conventions in an attempt to comply with applicable rules and to report income, gain, deduction, loss and credit to holders of our shares in a manner that reflects their distributive share of our items, but these assumptions and conventions may not be in compliance with all aspects of applicable tax requirements. It is possible that the IRS will assert successfully that the conventions and assumptions we use do not satisfy the technical requirements of the Code and/or United States Treasury Regulations and could require that items of income, gain, deduction, loss or credit be adjusted or reallocated in a manner that adversely affects holders of our shares and of any securities we may issue. Proposed tax legislation, if enacted, could limit our ability conduct investment management or advisory or other activities in the future. Proposed tax legislation has been introduced in Congress that is intended to prevent publicly traded partnerships from conducting investment management or advisory activities without the imposition of corporate income tax. One version of this proposed legislation would prevent a publicly traded partnership from qualifying as a partnership for United States federal income tax purposes if it conducts such activities either directly or indirectly through any entity in which it owns an interest, no matter how small or insignificant such activities are compared to the partnership's other activities. Other versions of the legislation would mandate that any income from investment management or advisory activities be treated as non-qualifying income under the 90% qualifying income exception for publicly traded partnerships, which, in turn, would limit the amount of such income that a publicly traded partnership could derive other than through corporate subsidiaries. It is unclear which version of the legislation, if any, ultimately will be enacted. It also is uncertain whether such legislation, if enacted, would apply retroactively to dates specified in the original proposals or prospectively only. We do not currently engage in investment management or advisory activities either directly or indirectly through an entity in which we own an interest. However, if such legislation is enacted, depending on the form it takes, it could limit our ability to engage in investment management and advisory or other activities in the future. Our shareholders should consult your own tax advisor regarding the likelihood that the proposed legislation will be enacted and, if enacted, the form it is likely to take. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 44 Table of Contents 