D. Risk factors The following risks relate principally to the industry in which we operate and our business in general. Other risks relate principally to the securities market and ownership of our common stock. The occurrence of any of the events described in this section could significantly and negatively affect our business, financial condition operating results or cash available for dividends or the trading price of our common stock. 5 Because the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board is not currently permitted to inspect our independent accounting firm, you may not benefit from such inspections. Auditors of U.S. public companies are required by law to undergo periodic Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) inspections that assess their compliance with U.S. law and professional standards in connection with performance of audits of financial statements filed with the Commission. Certain European Union countries, including Greece, do not currently permit the PCAOB to conduct inspections of accounting firms established and operating in such European Union countries, even if they are part of major international firms. Accordingly, unlike for most U.S. public companies, the PCAOB is prevented from evaluating our auditor's performance of audits and its quality control procedures, and, unlike shareholders of most U.S. public companies, we and our shareholders are deprived of the possible benefits of such inspections. We may be adversely affected by the introduction of new accounting rules for leasing. International and U.S. accounting standard-setting boards (the International Accounting Standards Board ("IASB") and the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") have issued new exposure drafts in their joint project that would require lessees to record most leases on their balance sheets as lease assets and liabilities. Entities would still class classify leases, but classification would be based on different criteria and would serve a different purpose than it does today. Lease classification would determine how entities recognize lease-related revenue and expense, as well as what lessor's record on the balance sheet. Classification would be based on the portion of the economic benefits of the underlying asset expected to be consumed by the lessee over the lease term. Financial statement metrics such as leverage and capital ratios, as well as EBITDA, may also be affected, even when cash flow and business activity have not changed. This may in turn affect covenant calculations under various contracts (e.g. loan agreements) unless the affected contracts are modified. The IASB and FASB's redeliberation of certain topics is expected to extend through much of 2014 and an effective date has not yet been determined. Accordingly, the timing and ultimate effect of those proposals of the Company is uncertain. Industry Specific Risk Factors Charterhire rates for drybulk vessels are volatile and have declined significantly since their historic highs and may remain at low levels or decrease in the future, which may adversely affect our earnings, revenue and profitability and our ability to comply with our loan covenants. The drybulk shipping industry is cyclical with high volatility in charterhire rates and profitability. The degree of charterhire rate volatility among different types of drybulk vessels has varied widely; however, the continued downturn in the drybulk charter market has severely affected the entire drybulk shipping industry and charterhire rates for drybulk vessels have declined significantly from historically high levels in 2008. The Baltic Dry Index, or the BDI, a daily average of charter rates for key drybulk routes published by the Baltic Exchange Limited, which has long been viewed as the main benchmark to monitor the movements of the drybulk vessel charter market and the performance of the entire drybulk shipping market, declined 94% in 2008 from a peak of 11,793 in May 2008 to a low of 663 in December 2008 and has remained volatile since then. The BDI recorded a record low of 647 in February 2012. While the BDI has increased from these low levels and has floated between 698 and 2,337 for year ended December 31, 2013, there can be no assurance that the drybulk charter market will continue to increase and the market could decline. We have significant exposure to changes in daily charter rates due to the short-term time charters and voyage charters on which our vessels currently are principally employed. 6 Fluctuations in charter rates result from changes in the supply of and demand for vessel capacity and changes in the supply of and demand for the major commodities carried by water internationally. Because the factors affecting the supply of and demand for vessels are outside of our control and are unpredictable, the nature, timing, direction and degree of changes in industry conditions are also unpredictable. Since a substantial portion of our vessels are or will be employed in the spot market we will be exposed to the cyclicality and volatility of the spot market. We may be unable to keep our vessels fully employed in these short-term markets or charter rates available in the spot market may be insufficient to enable our vessels to be operated profitably. A significant decrease in charter rates would affect asset values and adversely affect our profitability, cash flows and ability to comply with the covenants in our credit facilities. Factors that influence demand for drybulk vessel capacity include: · supply of and demand for energy resources, commodities, consumer and industrial products; · changes in the exploration or production of energy resources, commodities, consumer and industrial products; · the location of regional and global exploration, production and manufacturing facilities; · the location of consuming regions for energy resources, commodities, consumer and industrial products; · the globalization of production and manufacturing; · global and regional economic and political conditions, including armed conflicts and terrorist activities; embargoes and strikes; · developments in international trade; · changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including the distance cargo is transported by sea; · environmental and other regulatory developments; · currency exchange rates; and 7 · weather. Factors that influence the supply of vessel capacity include: · the number of newbuilding deliveries; · port and canal congestion; · the scrapping of older vessels; · vessel casualties; and · the number of vessels that are out of service, namely those that are laid-up, drydocked, awaiting repairs or otherwise not available for hire. In addition to the prevailing and anticipated freight rates, factors that affect the rate of newbuilding, scrapping and laying-up include newbuilding prices, secondhand vessel values in relation to scrap prices, costs of bunkers and other operating costs, costs associated with classification society surveys, normal maintenance and insurance coverage, the efficiency and age profile of the existing drybulk fleet in the market and government and industry regulation of maritime transportation practices, particularly environmental protection laws and regulations. These factors influencing the supply of and demand for shipping capacity are outside of our control, and we may not be able to correctly assess the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions. We anticipate that the future demand for our drybulk vessels will be dependent upon economic growth in the world's economies, including China and India, seasonal and regional changes in demand, changes in the capacity of the global drybulk carrier fleet and the sources and supply of drybulk cargo to be transported by sea. Given the number of new drybulk carriers currently on order with the shipyards, the capacity of the global drybulk carrier fleet seems likely to increase and there can be no assurance as to the timing or extent of future economic growth. Adverse economic, political, social or other developments could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. An over-supply of drybulk carrier capacity may depress the charter rates and, in turn, adversely affect our profitability. Fluctuations in charter rates and vessel values result from changes in the supply and demand for drybulk cargoes carried internationally at sea, including coal, iron ore, grains and minerals. The market supply of drybulk carriers has been increasing, as the number of drybulk carriers on order was recently at near historic highs. These newbuildings were delivered in significant numbers starting at the beginning of 2006 and continued to be delivered in significant numbers through 2013. While vessel supply will continue to be affected by the delivery of new vessels and the removal of vessels from the global fleet, either through scrapping or accidental losses, an over-supply of drybulk carrier capacity, particularly in conjunction with slowdown in demand for vessel capacity, could exacerbate the decrease in charter rates or prolong the period during which low charter rates prevail. We currently have ten vessels that we consider to be employed in the spot market due to the short duration of their current charter agreements, six of our vessels on medium to long term charters scheduled to expire in June 2014, August 2014, November 2015 and June 2016 and one vessel under its periodic dry-docking survery. If there is a low charter rate environment during a period when the current charters for our drybulk carriers expire or are terminated, we may only be able to recharter those vessels at reduced rates or we may not be able to charter our vessels at all. 8 Many of our vessels will soon be exposed to the volatilities of the drybulk charter markets. Drybulk charter markets have experienced significant continued weakness in 2013. We currently have ten vessels that we consider to be employed in the spot market due to the short duration of their current charter agreements six of our vessels on medium to long term time charters scheduled to expire in June 2014, August 2014, November 2015 and June 2016 and one vessel under its periodic dry-docking survey. The time charter market is highly competitive and spot and short-term trip charter market charterhire rates (which affect time charter rates) may fluctuate significantly based upon the supply of, and demand for, seaborne drybulk shipping capacity. Our ability to re-charter our vessels on the expiration or termination of their current time charters and the charter rates payable under any renewal or replacement charters will depend upon, among other things, economic conditions in the drybulk shipping market. The drybulk carrier charter market is volatile, and in the past, time charter and spot market charter rates for drybulk carriers have declined below operating costs of vessels. If we are required to charter these vessels at a time when demand and charter rates are very low, we may not be able to secure time charter or spot market employment for our vessels at all or at reduced and potentially unprofitable rates. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as our ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future, and compliance with covenants in our credit facilities, may be affected. If economic conditions throughout the world do not improve, it will have an adverse impact on our operations and financial results. Negative trends in the global economy that emerged in 2008 continue to adversely affect global economic conditions. In addition, the world economy continues to face a number of challenges, including the economic weakness in the European Union and the United States. The deterioration in the global economy has caused, and may continue to cause, a decrease in worldwide demand for certain goods, and thus, shipping. We cannot predict how long the current conditions will last. However, recent and developing economic and governmental factors, together with the concurrent decline in charter rates and vessel values, have had a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, have caused the price of our common shares to decline and could cause the price of our common shares to decline further. The economies of the United States, the European Union and other parts of the world continue to experience relatively slow growth or remain in recession and exhibit weak economic trends. The credit markets in the United States and Europe have experienced significant contraction, deleveraging and reduced liquidity, and the U.S. federal government and state governments and European authorities continue to implement a broad variety of governmental action and/or new regulation of the financial markets. While credit conditions are beginning to stabilize, global financial markets have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile. Since 2008, lending by financial institutions worldwide remains at low levels compared to the period preceding 2008. 9 The continued economic slowdown in the Asia Pacific region, especially in Japan and China, may exacerbate the effect on us of the recent slowdown in the rest of the world. Before the global economic financial crisis that began in 2008, China had one of the world's fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product, or GDP, which had a significant impact on shipping demand. The growth rate of China's GDP for the year ended December 31, 2013, is estimated to remain around 7.7%, approximately the same growth rate as for the year ended December 31, 2012, remaining below pre-2008 levels. China has imposed measures to restrain lending, which may further contribute to a slowdown in its economic growth. China and other countries in the Asia Pacific region may continue to experience slowed or even negative economic growth in the future. Moreover, the current economic slowdown in the economies of the United States, the European Union and other Asian countries may further adversely affect economic growth in China and elsewhere. Our financial condition and results of operations, as well as our future prospects, would likely be impeded by a continuing or worsening economic downturn in any of these countries. The market values of our vessels have declined and may further decline, which could limit the amount of funds that we can borrow or trigger certain financial covenants under our current or future credit facilities and/or we may incur a loss if we sell vessels following a decline in their market value. The fair market values of our vessels have generally experienced high volatility and have declined significantly. The market prices for drybulk carriers have decreased sharply from their historically high levels. The fair market value of our vessels may continue to fluctuate (i.e., increase and decrease) depending on a number of factors including: · prevailing level of charter rates; · general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry; · types, sizes and ages of vessels; · supply and demand for vessels; · other modes of transportation; · cost of newbuildings; · governmental or other regulations; · technological advances; and · competition from other shipping companies and other modes of transportation. 10 In addition, as vessels grow older, they generally decline in value. If the fair market value of our vessels declines further, we may not be in compliance with certain provisions of our term loans and we may not be able to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing. In addition, if we sell one or more of our vessels at a time when vessel prices have fallen, this would result in a loss and a reduction in earnings. Charter rates and vessel values have been negatively affected mainly by the record high deliveries of newly built vessels during the last few years, which resulted in a significant expansion of the drybulk fleet. Drybulk carrier values have also declined both as a result of a slowdown in the availability of global credit and the significant deterioration in charter rates. There can be no assurance as to how long charter rates and vessel values will remain at their currently low levels. Charter rates may remain at low levels for some time which will adversely affect our revenue and profitability. In addition, because the market value of our vessels may fluctuate significantly, we may incur losses when we sell vessels, which may adversely affect our earnings. If we sell vessels at a time when vessel prices have fallen and before we have recorded an impairment adjustment to our financial statements, the sale may be at less than the vessel's carrying amount in our financial statements, resulting in a loss and a reduction in earnings. Recently, we have recorded the following impairment charges: Star Alpha during the year ended December 31, 2009, Star Beta during the year ended December 31, 2010, Star Sigma and Star Ypsilon, during the year ended December 31, 2011, our entire Supramax fleet and Star Sigma during the year ended December 31, 2012. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we did not record any impairment charges. See "Critical Accounting Policies – Impairment of Long-lived Assets". Our earnings may be adversely affected if we do not successfully employ our newbuilding vessels once they are delivered. We have entered into agreements for the construction of nine newbuilding drybulk carriers and to two bareboat charters for two newbuilding Newcastlemax drybulk carriers on 10-year terms with options to purchase the vessels at any time and we have a purchase obligation upon the completion of the tenth year of the bareboat charterparty. We have not arranged charters for these vessels and given current market conditions, we will seek to deploy our vessels on time and spot charters in a manner that will help us achieve a steady flow of earnings. Although period charters provide relatively steady streams of revenue as well as a portion of the revenues generated by the charterer's deployment of the vessels in the spot market or otherwise, vessels committed to period charters may not be available for spot voyages during an upturn in the drybulk industry cycle, as the case may be, when spot voyages might be more profitable. If we cannot employ our vessels on profitable time charters or trade them in the spot market profitably, our results of operations and operating cash flow may suffer if rates achieved are not sufficient to cover respective vessel operating and financial expenses. Newbuilding projects are subject to risks that could cause delays, cost overruns or cancellation of our newbuilding contracts. We have entered into contracts to purchase nine newbuilding drybulk carriers to be built at Shanghai Waigaoqiao Shipbuilding Co., or SWS, Japan Marine United Corporation, or JMU, and Nantong COSCO KHI Ship Engineering Co., or NACKS, in China and Japan for an aggregate amount of $367.4 million. We have also entered two bareboat charters with CSSC (Hong Kong) Shipping Company Limited, or CSSC, for two newbuilding Newcastlemax drybulk carriers on 10-year terms with options to purchase the vessels at any time, and we have a purchase obligation upon the completion of the tenth year of the bareboat charterparty. All eleven vessels are scheduled to be delivered to us throughout 2015 and 2016. Newbuilding construction projects are subject to risks of delay or cost overruns due to a number of factors. Significant cost overruns or delays could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, failure to complete the project on time will delay revenue generating operations for the vessels. 11 In addition, in the event the shipyard does not perform under their contracts and in the unlikely event that there can be no enforcement of the refund guarantees against the third party banks we may lose all or part of our investment, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Also, if vessel values decline, we may choose to terminate the newbuilding contracts we have entered into, which may result in the forfeiture of yard payments we have already made, or we may decide to sell the newbuildings at a loss, in which case we may be required to make additional yard payments. Either of these scenarios would affect our result of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to obtain financing required to complete payments on our newbuildings, we may lose all or a portion of the payments previously made. As of March 20, 2014, we have paid aggregate installments of $66.8 million to acquire the nine newbuilding drybulk carriers from SWS, JMU and NACKS in China and Japan. Until delivery of the vessels we will have remaining installment obligations in the amount of $300.6 million before we take possession of the vessels. In connection with the two bareboat charters for two newbuilding Newcastlemax drybulk carriers, as of March 20, 2014, we have paid an amount of $11.55 million, representing the first installment of upfront hire and the second equal installment is due upon the completion of the steel-cutting stage of the construction of each vessel and an amount of $462,000 representing the first installment of handling fees and the second installment is due in one year. In addition we have options to purchase the respective vessels at any time, which are exercisable on a monthly basis against a predetermined, amortizing balance payment, whilst we have a respective obligation at the expiration of the bareboat term. The construction price for the respective vessels is $56.5 million and $59.0 million, respectively. We had, as of March, 20, 2014, a cash balance of $55.7 million to fund these newbuilding purchases and other newbuilding purchases. To fund the remaining portion of our installments and to acquire further vessels, we will be required to use cash or incur borrowings or raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. If we are not able to borrow additional funds, raise other capital or utilize available cash on hand, we may not be able to acquire this vessel or other newbuilding vessels, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If for any reason, we fail to make a payment when due, which may result in a default under our newbuilding contract, or otherwise fail to take delivery of our vessel, we would be prevented from realizing potential revenues from this vessel, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, and we could also lose all or a portion of our yard payments that were paid by us and we could be liable for penalties and damages under such contracts. Even if we are successful in obtaining necessary funds, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, which could limit our financial flexibility and ability to pursue other business opportunities. 12 We are subject to certain risks with respect to our counterparties and contracts, and failure of such counterparties to meet their obligations could cause us to suffer losses or negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows. We have entered into, and may enter into the future, various contracts, including charter agreements, shipbuilding contracts, acquisition agreements and credit facilities. Such agreements subject us to counterparty risks. The ability of each of our counterparties to perform their obligations under a contract with us, will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control and may include, among other things, general economic conditions, the condition of the maritime and offshore industries, the overall financial condition of the counterparty, charter rates received for specific types of vessels, and various expenses. For example, the combination of a reduction of cash flow resulting from declines in world trade, a reduction in borrowing bases under reserve-based credit facilities and the lack of availability of debt or equity financing may result in a significant reduction in the ability of charterers to make charter payments to us. In addition, in depressed market conditions, charterers and customers may no longer need a vessel that is then under charter or contract or may be able to obtain a comparable vessel at lower rates. As a result, charterers and customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of their existing charter agreements or avoid their obligations under those contracts. Should a counterparty fail to honor its obligations under agreements with us, we could sustain significant losses which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our management of third party vessels, including some owned by entities affiliated with certain of our directors, could create competition for commercial opportunities and the potential for conflicts of interest. We currently provide vessel management services to fourteen drybulk carriers owned by third parties, including eleven vessels owned by entities affiliated with the Oceanbulk Group, which was founded by and is affiliated with our Chairman, Mr. Petros Pappas, and our Director, Mrs. Milena-Maria Pappas. We manage these vessels under the same strategy as our owned vessels. We receive $750 per vessel per day management fees for such management services, and do not share in any revenue or profits from the chartering of such vessels which are received by the third party owners, including the entities affiliated with our directors as noted above. An over-supply of drybulk carrier capacity may depress the charter rates, which may limit our ability to operate our drybulk carriers profitably. 13 The supply of drybulk vessels has increased significantly since the beginning of 2006. Although the number of drybulk carriers on order has declined from the historic highs in recent years, there remains a substantial amount of capacity on order. Supply growth has been outpacing vessel demand growth over the past few years causing downward pressure on charter rates. Until the new supply is fully absorbed by the market, charter rates may continue to be under pressure due to vessel supply in the near to medium term. Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels could adversely affect our business Acts of piracy have historically affected ocean-going vessels trading in regions of the world such as the South China Sea, the Indian Ocean and in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Although the frequency of sea piracy worldwide decreased during 2013 to its lowest level since 2009, sea piracy incidents continue to occur, particularly in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia and increasingly in the Gulf of Guinea, with drybulk vessels and tankers particularly vulnerable to such attacks. If these piracy attacks result in regions in which our vessels are deployed being characterized by insurers as "war risk" zones by insurers or Joint War Committee "war and strikes" listed areas, premiums payable for such coverage could increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. In addition, crew costs, including costs which may be incurred to the extent we employ onboard security guards, could increase in such circumstances. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, detention hijacking as a result of an act of piracy against our vessels, or an increase in cost, or unavailability of insurance for our vessels, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends and may result in loss of revenues, increased costs and decreased cash flows to our customers, which could impair their ability to make payments to us under our charters. The current state of the global financial markets and current economic conditions may adversely impact our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms and otherwise negatively impact our business. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, volatile. Recently, operating businesses in the global economy have faced tightening credit, weakening demand for goods and services, deteriorating international liquidity conditions, and declining markets. There has been a general decline in the willingness by banks and other financial institutions to extend credit, particularly in the shipping industry, due to the historically volatile asset values of vessels. As the shipping industry is highly dependent on the availability of credit to finance and expand operations, it has been negatively affected by this decline. Also, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets has increased as many lenders have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at all or on terms similar to current debt and reduced, and in some cases ceased, to provide funding to borrowers. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that financing will be available if needed and to the extent required, on acceptable terms. If financing is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due or we may be unable to enhance our existing business, complete additional vessel acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities as they arise. 14 If the current global economic environment persists or worsens, we may be negatively affected in the following ways: · we may not be able to employ our vessels at charter rates as favorable to us as historical rates or operate our vessels profitably; and · the market value of our vessels could decrease, which may cause us to recognize losses if any of our vessels are sold. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. The instability of the euro or the inability of countries to refinance their debts could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and financial position. As a result of the credit crisis in Europe, in particular in Greece, Italy, Ireland, Portugal and Spain, the European Commission created the European Financial Stability Facility, or the EFSF, and the European Financial Stability Mechanism, or the EFSM, to provide funding to Eurozone countries in financial difficulties that seek such support. In March 2011, the European Council agreed on the need for Eurozone countries to establish a permanent stability mechanism, the European Stability Mechanism, or the ESM, which was established on September 27, 2012, to assume the role of the EFSF and the EFSM in providing external financial assistance to Eurozone countries. Despite these measures, concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain Eurozone countries and their ability to meet future financial obligations and the overall stability of the euro. An extended period of adverse development in the outlook for European countries could reduce the overall demand for drybulk cargoes and for our services. These potential developments, or market perceptions concerning these and related issues, could affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flow. Charter rates are subject to seasonal fluctuations and market volatility, which may adversely affect our financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Currently six of our vessels are chartered on medium to long-term time charters with an average remaining term of approximately 1.23 years ten of our vessels are considered to be employed in the spot market and one of our vessels underwent its periodic dry-docking survey. Demand for vessel capacity has historically exhibited seasonal variations and, as a result, fluctuations in charter rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our operating results for vessels trading in the spot market. Seasonality in the sector in which we operate could materially affect our operating results and cash available for dividends. Rising fuel prices may adversely affect our profits. Fuel is a significant, if not the largest, expense in our shipping operations when vessels are not under period time charters. Changes in the price of fuel may adversely affect our profitability. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. Further, fuel may become much more expensive in the future, which may reduce the profitability and competitiveness of our business versus other forms of transportation, such as truck or rail. 15 We are subject to international safety regulations and the failure to comply with these regulations may subject us to increased liability, may adversely affect our insurance coverage and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. Our business and the operation of our vessels are materially affected by government regulation in the form of international conventions, national, state and local laws and regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which the vessels operate, as well as in the country or countries of their registration. Because such conventions, laws, and regulations are often revised, we cannot predict the ultimate cost of complying with such conventions, laws and regulations or the impact thereof on the resale prices or useful lives of our vessels. Additional conventions, laws and regulations may be adopted which could limit our ability to do business or increase the cost of our doing business and which may materially adversely affect our operations. We are required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses, certificates, and financial assurances with respect to our operations. The operation of our vessels is affected by the requirements set forth in the United Nations' International Maritime Organization's International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and Pollution Prevention, or ISM Code. The ISM Code requires ship owners, ship managers and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive "Safety Management System" that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. The failure of a ship owner or bareboat charterer to comply with the ISM Code may subject it to increased liability, may invalidate existing insurance or decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. If we are subject to increased liability for noncompliance or if our insurance coverage is adversely impacted as a result of noncompliance, we may have less cash available for distribution to our stockholders as dividends. If any of our vessels are denied access to, or are detained in, certain ports, this may decrease our revenues. We operate our vessels worldwide and as a result, our vessels are exposed to international risks which may reduce revenue or increase expenses. The international shipping industry is an inherently risky business involving global operations. Our vessels and their cargoes are at a risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as mechanical failure, collision, human error, war, terrorism, piracy, marine disasters, and bad weather and other acts of God. In addition, changing economic, regulatory and political conditions in some countries, including political and military conflicts, have from time to time resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways, piracy, terrorism, labor strikes and boycotts. These sorts of events could interfere with shipping routes and result in market disruptions which may reduce our revenue or increase our expenses. 16 Our vessels may call on ports located in countries that are subject to restrictions imposed by the U.S. or other governments, which could adversely affect our reputation and the market for our common shares. From time to time on charterers' instructions, our vessels may call on ports located in countries subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the United States government and countries identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism, such as Cuba, Iran, Sudan and Syria, and since our inception, to the best of our knowledge only one of our vessels made one port call in Iran in 2011. The U.S. sanctions and embargo laws and regulations vary in their application, as they do not all apply to the same covered persons or proscribe the same activities, and such sanctions and embargo laws and regulations may be amended or strengthened over time. With effect from July 1, 2010, the U.S. enacted the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions Accountability and Divestment Act, or CISADA, which expanded the scope of the Iran Sanctions Act. Among other things, CISADA expands the application of the prohibitions to companies, such as ours, and introduces limits on the ability of companies and persons to do business or trade with Iran when such activities relate to the investment, supply or export of refined petroleum or petroleum products. In addition, on May 1, 2012, President Obama signed Executive Order 13608 which prohibits foreign persons from violating or attempting to violate, or causing a violation of any sanctions in effect against Iran or facilitating any deceptive transactions for or on behalf of any person subject to U.S. sanctions. Any persons found to be in violation of Executive Order 13608 will be deemed a foreign sanctions evader and will be banned from all contacts with the United States, including conducting business in U.S. dollars. Also in 2012, President Obama signed into law the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012, or the Iran Threat Reduction Act, which created new sanctions and strengthened existing sanctions. Among other things, the Iran Threat Reduction Act intensifies existing sanctions regarding the provision of goods, services, infrastructure or technology to Iran's petroleum or petrochemical sector. The Iran Threat Reduction Act also includes a provision requiring the President of the United States to impose five or more sanctions from Section 6(a) of the Iran Sanctions Act, as amended, on a person the President determines is a controlling beneficial owner of, or otherwise owns, operates, or controls or insures a vessel that was used to transport crude oil from Iran to another country and (1) if the person is a controlling beneficial owner of the vessel, the person had actual knowledge the vessel was so used or (2) if the person otherwise owns, operates, or controls, or insures the vessel, the person knew or should have known the vessel was so used. Such a person could be subject to a variety of sanctions, including exclusion from U.S. capital markets, exclusion from financial transactions subject to U.S. jurisdiction, and exclusion of that person's vessels from U.S. ports for up to two years. On November 24, 2013, the P5+1 (the United States, United Kingdom, Germany, France, Russia and China) entered into an interim agreement with Iran entitled the "Joint Plan of Action" ("JPOA"). Under the JPOA it was agreed that, in exchange for Iran taking certain voluntary measures to ensure that its nuclear program is used only for peaceful purposes, the U.S. and EU would voluntarily suspend certain sanctions for a period of six months. On January 20, 2014, the U.S. and E.U. indicated that they would begin implementing the temporary relief measures provided for under the JPOA. These measures include, among other things, the suspension of certain sanctions on the Iranian petrochemicals, precious metals, and automotive industries from January 20, 2014 until July 20, 2014. 17 Although we believe that we have been in compliance with all applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations, and intend to maintain such compliance, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future as such regulations and U.S. Sanctions may be amended over time, and the U.S. retains the authority to revoke the aforementioned relief if Iran fails to meet its commitments under the JPOA. Any such violation could result in fines, penalties or other sanctions that could severely impact our ability to access U.S. capital markets and conduct our business, and could result in some investors deciding, or being required, to divest their interest, or not to invest, in us. In addition, certain institutional investors may have investment policies or restrictions that prevent them from holding securities of companies that have contracts with countries identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism. The determination by these investors not to invest in, or to divest from, our common stock may adversely affect the price at which our common stock trades. Moreover, our charterers may violate applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations as a result of actions that do not involve us or our vessels, and those violations could in turn negatively affect our reputation. In addition, our reputation and the market for our securities may be adversely affected if we engage in certain other activities, such as entering into charters with individuals or entities in countries subject to U.S. sanctions and embargo laws that are not controlled by the governments of those countries, or engaging in operations associated with those countries pursuant to contracts with third parties that are unrelated to those countries or entities controlled by their governments. Investor perception of the value of our common stock may be adversely affected by the consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest and governmental actions in these and surrounding countries. World events could affect our results of operations and financial condition. Continuing conflicts and recent developments in the Middle East, including Egypt, and North Africa, including Libya, and the presence of the United States and other armed forces in Afghanistan, may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea and the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Any of these occurrences, or the perception that our vessels are potential terrorist targets, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. Increased inspection procedures and tighter import and export controls could increase costs and disrupt our business. International shipping is subject to various security and customs inspection and related procedures in countries of origin and destination. Inspection procedures may result in the seizure of contents of our vessels, delays in the loading, offloading or delivery and the levying of customs duties, fines or other penalties against us. It is possible that changes to inspection procedures could impose additional financial and legal obligations on us. Changes to inspection procedures could also impose additional costs and obligations on our customers and may, in certain cases, render the shipment of certain types of cargo uneconomical or impractical. Any such changes or developments may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Maritime claimants could arrest one or more of our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a claimant may seek to obtain security for its claim by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay large sums of money to have the arrest or attachment lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the "sister ship" theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant's maritime lien and any "associated" vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could attempt to assert "sister ship" liability against a vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another of our vessels. Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in a loss of earnings. A government could requisition one or more of our vessels for title or for hire. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes its owner, while requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes its charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during periods of war or emergency, although governments may elect to requisition vessels in other circumstances. Although we would be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition of one or more of our vessels, the amount and timing of payment would be uncertain. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels may negatively impact our revenues and reduce the amount of cash we have available for distribution as dividends to our stockholders. Company Specific Risk Factors Substantial debt levels could limit our flexibility to obtain additional financing or pursue other business opportunities. As of March 20, 2014, we had outstanding indebtedness of $259.9 million and we expect to incur additional indebtedness as we continue to grow our fleet. This level of debt could have important consequences to us, including the following: · we may not be able to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes or such financing may be unavailable on favorable terms; · we may need to use a substantial portion of our cash from operations to make principal and interest payments on our debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and dividends to our shareholders; 19 · our debt level could make us more vulnerable than our competitors with less debt to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and · our debt level may limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating income is not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. We may not be able to effect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms, or at all. In addition, a lack of liquidity in the debt and equity markets could hinder our ability to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing on favorable terms in the future. In addition, our loan agreements may impose operation restrictions on us such as changing the management of our vessels. Please see "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – B. Liquidity and Capital Resources – Senior Secured Credit Facilities." We may be unable to comply with the covenants contained in our loan agreements, which would affect our ability to conduct our business. Our loan agreements for our borrowings, which are secured by mortgages on our vessels, contain various financial and other covenants. Among those covenants are requirements that relate to our financial position, operating performance and liquidity. The market value of drybulk vessels is sensitive, among other things, to changes in the drybulk charter market, with vessel values deteriorating in times when drybulk charter rates are falling and improving when charter rates are anticipated to rise. The current low charter rates in the drybulk market, along with the oversupply of drybulk carriers and the prevailing difficulty in obtaining financing for vessel purchases, have adversely affected drybulk vessel values, including the vessels in our fleet. As a result, we may not meet certain minimum asset coverage ratios and other financial ratios which are included in our loan agreements. During 2013, we entered into amended loan agreements with our lenders, based on previously negotiated term sheets signed in December 2012. Under our $120.0 million and $26.0 million loan agreements with Commerzbank AG, we have agreed to amend, among other things, our minimum asset coverage ratio from 135% to 80% for the period ending December 31, 2013, to 85% for the six month period ending June 30, 2014, to 90% for the six month period ending December 31, 2014 and to 110% for the six month period ending June 30, 2015. Thereafter and until the repayment of the respective loans, the asset cover ratio will be set to its initial level of 135%. In addition, we have agreed to the deferral of payments of $16.7 million representing 60% of the value of the installments payable in year 2013 and 50% of the value of the installments payable in 2014, and to a prepayment of the loans of $2.0 million, which was made on December 31, 2012. The deferred amounts have been added to the loans' final installment, payable upon the expiration of the loan agreements in the fourth quarter of 2016. 20 We also amended the minimum asset coverage ratio under our $64.5 million loan agreement with HSH Nordbank AG, or HSH, which was reduced to 100% for the period ending December 31, 2012 and to 110% for the period from January 1, 2013 until December 31, 2013. Thereafter and until repayment of the loan, the asset cover ratio will return to 125%. In addition, we have agreed to the deferral of a minimum of approximately $3.5 million of the subsequent eight consecutive quarterly installments and to the release of approximately $7.4 million of pledged cash already held by HSH which was applied as prepayment of the loan facility on January 7, 2013. In connection to the sale of Star Sigma in April 2013, we were obliged to fully prepay the balance of the Capesize Tranche, amounting to $4.7 million, and the remaining $4.1 million balance from the sale proceeds was applied to the Supramax Tranche as a prepayment. As a result, the next seven scheduled quarterly installments which commenced in April 2013 were reduced on a pro-rata basis equal to the amount of the prepayment. The amended terms of our $70.0 million loan agreement with Credit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank, or Credit Agricole, among other things, reduce the asset coverage ratio from 120% to 105% until March 31, 2014 thereafter and until the repayment of the loan, the asset coverage ratio will return to 120%. We agreed to reduce the asset coverage ratio of our $31.0 million loan agreement with ABN AMRO Bank from 100% to 75% for the period until December 31, 2014 and thereafter the asset coverage ratio will be set to the level as stated in the original agreement. In addition, we have agreed to reduce the minimum required liquidity to $500,000 per vessel, from $750,000, which resulted in the reclassification of restricted cash to free cash. Certain of our loan agreements also require that members of the Pappas family at all times own at least 5% of our outstanding capital stock and Mr. Petros Pappas continue to be the non-executive Chairman of the board. Mr. Petros Pappas was recently re-elected as a director of the Board to serve until the 2016 annual meeting of shareholders. In addition, we agreed with certain of our lenders to increase our vessel management services to cover at least 10 third-party vessels by December 31, 2013. Set forth below are financial and other covenants that are contained in our amended loan agreements that we are required to meet on certain testing dates. The terms used herein not otherwise defined shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the applicable loan agreements, which are incorporated by reference herein. Credit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank The following financial and other covenants regarding our $70.0 million loan agreement with Credit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank, or Credit Agricole, among others, were in effect as of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2013: · "Asset coverage ratio" greater than 105%. As of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2013, our "asset coverage ratio" was 121% and 173%, respectively. 21 · "Maximum leverage ratio" less than 95%. As of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2013, our "leverage ratio" was approximately 85% and 39%, respectively. · "Minimum Liquid funds" greater than $7.0 million, which is contingent upon the number of vessels owned by the Company. As of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2013, our "liquid funds" were $20.0 million and $51.8 million, respectively. 22 ABN AMRO Bank The following financial and other covenants regarding our $31.0 million loan agreement with ABN AMRO Bank, among others, were in effect as of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2013: · "Asset coverage ratio" greater than 75%. As of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2013, our "asset coverage ratio" was 92% and 160%, respectively. · "Minimum market value adjusted net worth" greater than $30.0 million. As of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2013, our "minimum market value adjusted net worth" was approximately $66.7 million and $293.4 million, respectively. · "Maximum leverage ratio" less than 110%. As of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2013, our "leverage ratio" was approximately 90% and 42%, respectively. · "Interest coverage ratio" greater than 1.5:1.0. As of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2013, our "interest coverage ratio" was 5.2:1.0 and 4.9:1.0, respectively. · "Minimum liquid funds" greater than $7.0 million as of December 31, 2012 and $7.5 million as of December 31, 2013. "Minimum liquid funds" is contingent upon the number of vessels owned by the Company. As of December 31, 2012 and 2013, our "liquid funds" were $20.0 million and $51.8 million, respectively. Commerzbank AG The following financial and other covenants regarding our $120.0 million and $26.0 million loan agreements with Commerzbank AG, were in effect as of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2013: · "Minimum asset coverage ratio" greater than 80%. As of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2013, under the $120.0 million loan agreement with Commerzbank AG we had a "minimum asset coverage ratio" of 98% and 121%, respectively, and under the $26.0 million loan agreement, we had a "minimum asset coverage ratio" of 108% and 154%, respectively. · "Market value adjusted equity ratio" greater than 15%. As of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2013, we had a "market value adjusted equity ratio" of approximately 22% and 59%, respectively. 23 · "Minimum liquid funds" greater than $7.0 million and $7.5 million, as of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2013, respectively. "Minimum liquid funds" is contingent upon the number of vessels owned by the Company. As of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2013, our "liquid funds" were $20.0 million and $51.8 million, respectively. · Additional financial covenant requirement added, "Interest coverage ratio" greater than 1.5:1.0. As of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2013, our "interest coverage ratio" was 5.2:1.0 and 4.9:1.0, respectively. HSH Nordbank, AG The following financial and other covenants regarding our $64.5 million loan agreement with HSH Nordbank AG, or HSH, were in effect as of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2013: · "Minimum asset coverage ratio" greater than 110%. As of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2013, our "asset coverage ratio" was 111% and 172%, respectively. · "Minimum liquidity" of $0.2 million for each mortgaged vessel under this credit facility. As of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2013, we had "minimum liquidity" of $0.8 million and $0.6 million, respectively, based on the number of vessels under this credit facility at that date. · "Minimum market value adjusted net worth" greater than $30.0 million. As of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2013, we had a "minimum market value adjusted net worth" of approximately $66.7 million and $288.1 million, respectively. · "Maximum leverage ratio" less than 90%. As of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2013, we had a "leverage ratio" of approximately 79% and 41%, respectively. · "Minimum liquid funds" greater than $7.0 million and $7.5 million, as of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2013, respectively. "Minimum liquid funds" is contingent upon the number of vessels owned by the Company. As of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2013, our "liquid funds" were $20.8 million and $52.4 million, respectively. 24 · "Interest coverage ratio" greater than 2.0:1.0. As of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2013, our "interest coverage ratio" was 5.2:1.0 and 4.9:1.0, respectively. As of December 31, 2013, we were in compliance with the financial and other covenants under all of our loan agreements. Please see "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Senior Secured Credit Facilities" for a discussion of our credit facilities. If we are not in compliance with our covenants and we are not able to obtain covenant waivers or modifications, our lenders could require us to post additional collateral, enhance our equity and liquidity, increase our interest payments or pay down our indebtedness to a level where we are in compliance with our loan covenants, sell vessels in our fleet, or they could accelerate our indebtedness, which would impair our ability to continue to conduct our business. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we might not be able to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing and could lose our vessels if our lenders foreclose their liens. In addition, if we find it necessary to sell our vessels at a time when vessel prices are low, we will recognize losses and a reduction in our earnings, which could affect our ability to raise additional capital necessary for us to comply with our loan agreements. Currently, we are prohibited from paying dividends under our loan agreements and we may be unable to pay dividends in the future. Under the terms of our recently agreed amendments to our loan agreements, we are prohibited from paying dividends until the later of (i) December 31, 2014, (ii) the repayment of the deferred amounts under our Commerzbank AG credit facilities, and (iii) complying with the original terms of our Credit Agricole credit facility dated January 20, 2011. In general, when dividends are paid, they are distributed on a quarterly basis from our operating surplus, in amounts that allow us to retain a portion of our cash flows to fund vessel or fleet acquisitions and for debt repayment and other corporate purposes, as determined by our management and board of directors. In addition, the declaration and payment of dividends will be subject at all times to the discretion of our board of directors. The timing and amount of dividends will depend on our earnings, financial condition, cash requirements and availability, fleet renewal and expansion, restrictions in our loan agreements, the provisions of Marshall Islands law affecting the payment of dividends and other factors. Marshall Islands law generally prohibits the payment of dividends other than from surplus or while a company is insolvent or would be rendered insolvent upon the payment of such dividends, or if there is no surplus, dividends may be declared or paid out of net profits for the fiscal year. We depend upon a few significant customers for a large part of our revenues and the loss of one or more of these customers could adversely affect our financial performance. We derive a significant part of our charterhire from a small number of customers. For the year ended December 31, 2013, we derived 47% of our voyage revenues from two charterers, as presented in our statement of operations. Currently, six of our vessels are employed under fixed rate period charters to two customers. If one or more of these customers is unable to perform under one or more charters with us and we are not able to find a replacement charter, or if a customer exercises certain rights to terminate the charter, we could suffer a loss of revenues that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash available for distribution as dividends to our shareholders. 25 We could lose a customer or the benefits of a time charter if, among other things: · the customer fails to make charter payments because of its financial inability, disagreements with us or otherwise; · the customer terminates the charter because we fail to deliver the vessel within a fixed period of time, the vessel is lost or damaged beyond repair, there are serious deficiencies in the vessel or prolonged periods of off-hire, default under the charter; or · the customer terminates the charter because the vessel has been subject to seizure for more than a specified number of days. If we lose a key customer, we may be unable to obtain charters on comparable terms or may become subject to the volatile spot market, which is highly competitive and subject to significant price fluctuations.The loss of any of our customers or time charters, or a decline in payments under our charters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. The failure of our charterers to meet their obligations under our charter agreements, on which we depend for substantially all of our revenues, could cause us to suffer losses or otherwise adversely affect our business. Currently, six of our vessels are chartered on medium to long-term time charters with an average remaining term of approximately 1.23 years ten of our vessels are employed in what we consider to be the spot market due to the short duration of their current charter agreements and one of our vessels underwent its periodic dry-docking survey . For the year ended December 31, 2013, 47% of our voyage revenues-net of commissions were generated from two charterers. The ability and willingness of each of our counterparties to perform its obligations under a time charter agreement with us will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control and may include, among other things, general economic conditions, the condition of the drybulk shipping industry and the overall financial condition of the counterparties. Consistent with drybulk shipping industry practice, we have not independently analyzed the creditworthiness of the charterers. Charterers are sensitive to the commodity markets and may be impacted by market forces affecting commodities such as iron ore, coal, grain, and other minor bulks. In addition, in these depressed market conditions, certain charterers, including some of our charterers, are renegotiating the terms of the charters or defaulting on their obligations under the charters. In the event a charterer fails to honor its obligations under agreements with us, it may be difficult to secure substitute employment for such vessel, and any new charter arrangements we secure in the spot market or on charters may be at lower rates, depending on the then existing charter rate levels, compared to the rates currently being charged for our vessels. 26 We previously entered into time charters for Star Epsilon and Star Kappa that were scheduled to expire in 2014. We withdrew the vessels from their charterers' service because of the charterers' repudiatory breach of time charter agreements. Arbitration proceedings commenced against the charterers of the vessels in London to pursue damages arising from such breach, which includes the loss of hire. A conditional settlement agreement was signed on September 5, 2012, under which we received an aggregate cash payment of $5.0 million divided into seventeen installments. The first installment of $500,000 was received upon the execution of the settlement agreement and the next sixteen monthly installments varying between $250,000 and $500,000 were due the last day of each month from September 30, 2012 to December 2013. As of the date of this annual report the payment has been received in full. Star Sigma was previously time chartered to pacific Bulk Shipping Ltd., or Pacific Bulk, for a minimum of 36 months and a maximum of 41 months. At Pacific Bulk's request, we agreed to extend the term of the time charter to a minimum of 56 months and a maximum of 61 months at a lower daily rate. On December 31, 2011, Star Sigma was redelivered to us early and on January 4, 2012, we entered into an agreement with Pacific Bulk to accept the early redelivery of the vessel in exchange for an aggregate of $6,454,000 consisting of a cash payment of $5,734,000 and 1,027 metric tons of fuel valued at $720,000. On February 15, 2011, we received a letter from Korea Line Corporation, or KLC, the charterer of Star Gamma and Star Cosmo, notifying us of the commencement of rehabilitation proceedings of KLC in Korea and the related schedule for making registered claims against KLC in those proceedings. We have received certain awards pursuant to the rehabilitation plan which was approved by the required majority vote of KLC's lenders. These awards provided for payments in cash and in shares for a period of ten years to KLC's claimants. On June 28, 2013, we received a letter from the receivers of STX Pan Ocean Co. Ltd., or STX, terminating the charter agreement for Star Borealis, effective immediately. Star Borealis was on time charter at an average gross daily charter rate of $24,750 for the period from September 11, 2011 until July 11, 2021. We intend to vigorously pursue all amounts owed to us under the charter agreement, including any related damages caused by the termination of the charterparty, under the STX rehabilitation proceedings which have commenced in Korea. As of December 31, 2013, STX owes us an amount of $653,788 for unpaid charter hire which along with a claim for damages for repudiation will be offset against the payable due to STX for the bunkers on vessel at the date of its early delivery. Please see "Item 8. Financial Information – Consolidated statements and other financial information – Legal Proceedings" for a discussion of our legal proceedings. 27 We may be subject to litigation, arbitration and other proceedings that could have an adverse effect on our business. On an ongoing basis, we are involved in litigation arising in the ordinary course of business, or otherwise. We may be exposed to litigation related to personal injury, environmental matters, contractual disagreements, taxes, securities, or maritime matters. We cannot predict with certainty the outcome or effect of any claim or other litigation matter, or a combination of these. If we are involved in any future litigation, or if our positions concerning current disputes are found to be incorrect, this may have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and ability to pay dividends, because of potential negative outcomes, the costs associated with asserting our claims or defending such lawsuits, and the diversion of management's attention to these matters. We may have difficulty managing our planned growth properly. We have newbuilding contracts for nine drybulk vessels each with fuel efficient specifications, including three Newcastlemax vessels, two Capesize vessel and four Ultramax vessels, we also entered into agreements to acquire two Post-Panamax vessels, which were delivered to us in February and March 2014, respectively, and we intend to continue to expand our fleet, which may include our acquisition of a significant number of additional vessels. Our ability to manage our growth will primarily depend on our ability to: · locate and acquire suitable vessels; · identify and consummate acquisitions or joint ventures; · obtain required financing; · integrate any acquired vessels successfully with our existing operations; · hire, train, and retain qualified personnel and crew to manage and operate our growing business and fleet; · enhance our customer base; and · manage our expansion. Growing any business by acquisition presents numerous risks such as undisclosed liabilities and obligations, difficulty experienced in obtaining additional qualified personnel and managing relationships with customers and suppliers and integrating newly acquired operations into existing infrastructures. We may not be successful in executing our growth plans and may incur significant expenses and losses. 28 We are exposed to volatility in the London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR, and have selectively entered into derivative contracts, which can result in higher than market interest rates and charges against our income. As of December 31, 2013, we had $56.0 million in cash, including restricted cash, and outstanding borrowings of $190.3 million, all of which are secured by the vessels in our fleet. On December 24, 2013, we entered into a binding commitment letter with HSH Nordbank AG for a new senior secured credit facility of up to $35.0 million, to be used to partially finance the two Ultramax vessels Star Challenger and Star Fighter, which also provide the mortgage collateral for this senior credit facility. The final loan agreement was signed on February 6, 2014 and on February 10, 2014, the total amount of $35.0 million was drawn down. In addition, on January 27, 2014, we executed a commitment letter with Deutsche Bank AG for a new senior secured credit facility of up to $39.0 million, to be used to partially finance the two Post Panamax vessels Star Sirius and Star Vega, which also provide the mortgage collateral for this senior credit facility. The final loan agreement was signed on March 14, 2014 and on March 18, 2014, the total amount of $39.0 million was drawn down. Our secured credit facilities are advanced at a floating rate based on LIBOR, which has been stable, but was volatile in prior years, which can affect the amount of interest payable on our debt, and which, in turn, could have an adverse effect on our earnings and cash flow. In addition, in recent years, LIBOR has been at relatively low levels, and may rise in the future as the current low interest rate environment comes to an end. Our financial condition could be materially adversely affected at any time that we have not entered into interest rate hedging arrangements to hedge our exposure to the interest rates applicable to our credit facilities and any other financing arrangements we may enter into in the future, including those we will enter into to finance a portion of the amounts payable with respect to newbuildings. Moreover, even if we have entered into interest rate swaps or other derivative instruments for purposes of managing our interest rate exposure, our hedging strategies may not be effective and we may incur substantial losses. We have selectively entered into derivative contracts, which will be effective in the second half of 2014, to fix our forward interest rate on $55.5 million of our outstanding indebtedness at an average rate of 1.71%. Entering into swaps and derivatives transactions is inherently risky and presents various possibilities for incurring significant expenses. Also, from time to time, we may take positions in other derivative instruments including freight derivatives, bunker derivatives and other derivative instruments. Generally, freight derivatives may be used to hedge a vessel owner's exposure to the charter market for a specified route and period of time, whereas bunker derivatives may be used to hedge the fluctuations in bunker prices. Upon settlement, if the contracted charter rate is less than the average of the rates, as reported by an identified index, for the specified route and time period, the seller of the freight derivative is required to pay the buyer an amount equal to the difference between the contracted rate and the settlement rate, multiplied by the number of days specified in the contract. Conversely, if the contracted rate is greater than the settlement rate, the buyer is required to pay the seller the settlement sum. If we take positions in freight derivatives or other derivative instruments we could suffer losses in the settling or termination of the freight or other derivative instruments. 29 The derivatives strategies that we employ in the future may not be successful or effective, and we could, as a result, incur substantial additional interest costs. See "Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk – Interest Rates", for a description of our interest rate swap arrangements. In the highly competitive international drybulk shipping industry, we may not be able to compete for charters with new entrants or established companies with greater resources which may adversely affect our results of operations. We employ our vessels in a highly competitive market that is capital intensive and highly fragmented. Competition arises primarily from other vessel owners, some of whom have substantially greater resources than us. Competition for the transportation of drybulk cargoes can be intense and depends on price, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the vessel and its managers to the charterers. Due in part to the highly fragmented market, competitors with greater resources could operate larger fleets through consolidations or acquisitions and may be able to offer more favorable terms. A significant amount of our common shares are concentrated in the ownership of investment funds controlled by Oaktree Capital Management L.P., or Oaktree, and investment funds controlled by Monarch Alternative Capital LP, or Monarch, whose interests may not coincide with yours. In connection with share purchases in our equity rights offering that was completed in July 2013 and our underwritten equity offering that was completed in October 2013, Oaktree and Monarch currently own common shares representing approximately 19.9% and 21.2%, respectively, of our issued and outstanding common shares. In connection with the equity rights offering we agreed with Oaktree and Monarch that each may appoint, subject to the approval of the Company's nominating committee, one individual for election to our board of directors as a Class B director. In July 2013, we appointed Mr. Roger Schmitz, the Monarch nominee, to our board of directors. Oaktree and Monarch could have considerable influence on our corporate affairs and your interests as a holder of our common shares may differ from the interests of Oaktree and Monarch. We may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel and other employees in the shipping industry, which may negatively affect the effectiveness of our management and our results of operations. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of our management team. As of March 20, 2014 we had eighty employees, through our wholly owned subsidiaries, Star Bulk Management Inc., or Star Bulk Management, and Starbulk S.A. Our employees are engaged in the day to day management of the vessels in our fleet. Our success depends upon our ability to retain key members of our management team and our ability to recruit and hire suitable employees. The loss of any members of our senior management team could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. Difficulty in hiring and retaining personnel could adversely affect our results of operations. We do not maintain "key man" life insurance on any of our officers or employees of Star Bulk Management and/or Starbulk S.A. 30 We may be unable to attract and retain qualified, skilled employees or crew necessary to operate our business. Our success depends in large part on the ability of us to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. In crewing our vessels, we require technically skilled employees with specialized training who can perform physically demanding work. Competition to attract and retain qualified crew members is intense due to the increase in the size of the global shipping fleet. If we are not able to obtain higher charter rates to compensate for any crew cost increases, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. If we cannot hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, we may be unable to manage, maintain and grow our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As we expand our fleet, we will need to expand our operations and financial systems and hire new shoreside staff and seafarers to staff our vessels; if we cannot expand these systems or recruit suitable employees, our performance may be adversely affected. We have newbuilding contracts for nine drybulk vessels each with fuel efficient specifications, including three Newcastlemax vessels, two Capesize vessels and four Ultramax vessels, and we entered into agreements to acquire two Post-Panamax vessels, which were delivered to us in February 2014 and March 2014, respectively. We have also entered into two bareboat agreements to bareboat charter for a period of 10 years, two 208,000 dwt Newcastlemax drybulk vessels to be built at SWS, with options to purchase the vessels at any time, and we have a purchase obligation upon the completion of the tenth year of the bareboat charterparty. We intend to continue to expand our fleet. Our operating and financial systems may not be adequate as we expand our fleet, and our attempts to implement those systems may be ineffective. In addition, we rely on our wholly-owned subsidiaries, Star Bulk Management and Starbulk S.A., to recruit shoreside administrative and management personnel and for crew management. Shoreside personnel are recruited by Star Bulk Management and Starbulk S.A. through referrals from other shipping companies and traditional methods of securing personnel, such as placing classified advertisements in shipping industry periodicals. Star Bulk Management, Starbulk S.A. and its crewing agent may not be able to continue to hire suitable employees as Star Bulk expands its fleet. If we are unable to operate our financial and operations systems effectively, recruit suitable employees or if our unaffiliated crewing agent encounters business or financial difficulties, our performance may be materially adversely affected. Labor interruptions could disrupt our business. Star Bulk Management and Starbulk S.A. currently provide the crew for all of our vessels, which are manned by masters, officers and crews that are employed by our shipowning subsidiaries. If not resolved in a timely and cost-effective manner, industrial action or other labor unrest could prevent or hinder our operations from being carried out normally and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 31 The smuggling of drugs or other contraband onto our vessels may lead to governmental claims against us. Our vessels may call in ports where smugglers attempt to hide drugs and other contraband on vessels, with or without the knowledge of crew members. To the extent our vessels are found with contraband, whether inside or attached to the hull of our vessel and whether with or without the knowledge of any of our crew, we may face governmental or other regulatory claims or restrictions which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations in the form of international conventions and treaties, national, state and local laws and national and international regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which our vessels operate or are registered, which can significantly affect the ownership and operation of our vessels. These laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, the regulations of the International Maritime Organization, or IMO, including the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage of 1969, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Bunker Oil Pollution Damage, the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships of 1973, including designations of Emission Control Areas thereunder, the IMO International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea of 1974, the International Convention on Load Lines of 1966, the U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, requirements of the U.S. Coast Guard and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or CERCLA, the U.S. Clean Air Act, U.S. Clean Water Act and the U.S. Marine Transportation Security Act of 2002. Compliance with such laws, regulations and standards, where applicable, may require installation of costly equipment or operational changes and may affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels. We may also incur additional costs in order to comply with other existing and future regulatory obligations, including, but not limited to, costs relating to air emissions (including greenhouse gas emissions), the management of ballast and bilge waters, maintenance and inspection, development and implementation of emergency procedures and insurance coverage or other financial assurance of our ability to address pollution incidents. Additionally, we cannot predict the cost of compliance with any new regulations that may be promulgated as a result of the 2010 BP plc Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. These costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. A failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of our operations. Environmental laws often impose strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, which could subject us to liability without regard to whether we were negligent or at fault. If our vessels fail to maintain their class certification and/or fail any annual survey, intermediate survey, dry-docking or special survey, that vessel would be unable to carry cargo, thereby reducing our revenues and profitability and violating certain covenants under our credit facilities. 32 Every ocean-going vessel must be "classed" by a classification society. The classification society certifies that the vessel is "in class," signifying that the vessel has been built and maintained in accordance with the rules of the classification society and complies with applicable rules and regulations of the vessel's country of registry and the international conventions of which that country is a member. In addition, where surveys are required by international conventions and corresponding laws and ordinances of a flag state, the classification society will undertake them on application or by official order, acting on behalf of the authorities concerned. The classification society also undertakes on request other surveys and checks that are required by regulations and requirements of the flag state. These surveys are subject to agreements made in each individual case and/or to the regulations of the country concerned. For maintenance of the class certification, regular and extraordinary surveys of hull, machinery, including the electrical plant, and any special equipment classes are required to be performed as follows: · Annual Surveys: For seagoing ships, annual surveys are conducted for the hull and the machinery, including the electrical plant, and where applicable for special equipment classed, within three months before or after each anniversary date of the date of commencement of the class period indicated in the certificate. · Intermediate Surveys: Extended annual surveys are referred to as intermediate surveys and typically are conducted two and one-half years after commissioning and each class renewal. Intermediate surveys are to be carried out at or between the occasions of the second or third annual survey. · Class Renewal Surveys: Class renewal surveys, also known as special surveys, are carried out for the ship's hull, machinery, including the electrical plant, and for any special equipment classed, at the intervals indicated by the character of classification for the hull. At the special survey, the vessel is thoroughly examined, including audio-gauging to determine the thickness of the steel structures. Should the thickness be found to be less than class requirements, the classification society would prescribe steel renewals. The classification society may grant a one-year grace period for completion of the special survey. Substantial amounts of money may have to be spent for steel renewals to pass a special survey if the vessel experiences excessive wear and tear. In lieu of the special survey every four or five years, depending on whether a grace period was granted, a vessel owner has the option of arranging with the classification society for the vessel's hull or machinery to be on a continuous survey cycle, in which every part of the vessel would be surveyed within a five-year cycle. Upon a vessel owner's request, the surveys required for class renewal may be split according to an agreed schedule to extend over the entire period of class. This process is referred to as continuous class renewal. All areas subject to survey as defined by the classification society are required to be surveyed at least once per class period, unless shorter intervals between surveys are prescribed elsewhere. The period between two subsequent surveys of each area must not exceed five years. 33 Most vessels are also drydocked every 30 to 36 months for inspection of the underwater parts and for repairs related to inspections. If any defects are found, the classification surveyor will issue a "recommendation" which must be rectified by the vessel owner within prescribed time limits. Most insurance underwriters make it a condition for insurance coverage that a vessel be certified as "in class" by a classification society which is a member of the International Association of Classification Societies. All of our vessels are certified as being "in class" by RINA, ABS and NKK, which are major classification societies. If any vessel does not maintain its class and/or fails any annual survey, intermediate survey, dry-docking or special survey, the vessel will be unable to carry cargo between ports and will be unemployable and uninsurable which could cause us to be in violation of certain covenants in our credit facilities. Any such inability to carry cargo or be employed, or any such violation of covenants, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our vessels may suffer damage due to the inherent operational risks of the seaborne transportation industry and we may experience unexpected drydocking costs, which may adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our vessels and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as marine disasters, bad weather, business interruptions caused by mechanical failures, grounding, fire, explosions and collisions, human error, war, terrorism, piracy and other circumstances or events. These hazards may result in death or injury to persons, loss of revenues or property, environmental damage, higher insurance rates, damage to our customer relationships, delay or rerouting. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility. For example, the costs of drydock repairs are unpredictable and may be substantial. We may have to pay drydocking costs that our insurance does not cover in full. The loss of earnings while these vessels are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our earnings. In addition, space at drydocking facilities is sometimes limited and not all drydocking facilities are conveniently located. We may be unable to find space at a suitable drydocking facility or our vessels may be forced to travel to a drydocking facility that is not conveniently located to our vessels' positions. The loss of earnings while these vessels are forced to wait for space or travel to more distant drydocking facilities would decrease our earnings. In February 2012, Star Polaris sustained bottom damage when entering the port of Eregli in Turkey. The vessel proceeded to a shipyard for permanent repairs, which resulted in an off-hire period of 49 days and a loss of $0.8 million in revenues. Our insurers have reimbursed us for $1.6 million of expenditures related to repairs under our hull and machinery policies. In June 2012, Star Polaris, suffered engine failure in Korea, which resulted in 142 off-hire days and the loss of $2.3 million in revenues. Our insurers have reimbursed us for $7.7 million of expenditures related to repairs under our hull and machinery policies. We have entered into arbitration proceedings against the shipyard for the losses incurred as a result of the main engine failure in Korea, attributing same to the yard's liability. 34 The operation of drybulk carriers has certain unique operational risks. By their nature, drybulk cargoes are often heavy, dense, easily shifted, and react badly to water exposure, so the cargo and its interaction with the vessel can be a risk factor in and of itself. In addition, drybulk carriers are often subjected to battering treatment during unloading operations with grabs, jackhammers (to pry encrusted cargoes out of the hold), and small bulldozers. This treatment may cause damage to the drybulk carrier. Drybulk carriers damaged due to treatment during unloading procedures may be more susceptible to a breach to the sea. Hull breaches in drybulk carriers may lead to the flooding of their holds. If a drybulk carrier suffers flooding in its forward holds, the bulk cargo may become so dense and waterlogged that its pressure may buckle the drybulk carrier's bulkheads, leading to the loss of the drybulk carrier. If we are unable to adequately maintain or safeguard our vessels we may be unable to prevent these events. Any of these circumstances or events could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends if reinstated in the future. In addition, the loss of any of our vessels could harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. Purchasing and operating secondhand vessels may result in increased operating costs and vessel off-hire, which could adversely affect our earnings. On January 24, 2014, we entered into contracts to acquire two secondhand Post-Panamax vessels which were delivered to us in February 2014 and March 2014, respectively. Our inspection of secondhand vessels prior to purchase does not provide us with the same knowledge about their condition and cost of any required or anticipated repairs that we would have had if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. We will not receive the benefit of warranties on secondhand vessels. Typically, the costs to maintain a vessel in good operating condition increase with the age of the vessel. Older vessels are typically less fuel efficient and more costly to maintain than more recently constructed vessels. Cargo insurance rates increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may require expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment, to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which the vessels may engage. As our vessels age, market conditions may not justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. We inspected all of our secondhand vessels, which we acquired from both related and unrelated third parties, considered the age and condition of the vessels in budgeting for their operating, insurance and maintenance costs, and if we acquire additional secondhand vessels in the future, we may encounter higher operating and maintenance costs due to the age and condition of those additional vessels. We may not have adequate insurance to compensate us for the loss of a vessel, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. We have procured hull and machinery insurance, protection and indemnity insurance, which include environmental damage and pollution insurance coverage, and war risk insurance for our fleet. We do not maintain, for our vessels, insurance against loss of hire, which covers business interruptions that result from the loss of use of a vessel. We may not be adequately insured against all risks. We may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for our fleet in the future. The insurers may not pay particular claims. Our insurance policies may contain deductibles for which we will be responsible, and limitations and exclusions which may increase our costs or lower our revenue. Moreover, insurers may default on claims they are required to pay. If our insurance is not enough to cover claims that may arise, the deficiency may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 35 We may be subject to calls because we obtain some of our insurance through protection and indemnity associations. We may be subject to increased premium payments, or calls, in amounts based on our claim records and the claim records of our fleet managers as well as the claim records of other members of the protection and indemnity associations (P&I Associations) through which we receive insurance coverage for tort liability, including pollution-related liability. In addition, our P&I Associations may not have enough resources to cover claims made against them. Our payment of these calls could result in a significant expense to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Because we generate all of our revenues in dollars but incur a significant portion of our expenses in other currencies, exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We generate all of our revenues in dollars but we incur a portion of our expenses in currencies other than the dollar. This difference could lead to fluctuations in net income due to changes in the value of the dollar relative to the other currencies, in particular the Euro. Expenses incurred in foreign currencies against which the dollar falls in value can increase, decreasing our revenues. Further declines in the value of the dollar could lead to higher expenses payable by us. We are a holding company, and depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial obligations or to make dividend payments. We are a holding company, and our subsidiaries, which are all directly and wholly owned by us, conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. As a result, our ability to satisfy our financial obligations and to pay dividends to our shareholders depends on the ability of our subsidiaries to generate profits available for distribution to us and, to the extent that they are unable to generate profits, we may be unable to pay dividends to our shareholders. Currently, we and certain of our subsidiaries are prohibited from paying dividends to our shareholders and us until certain conditions a met under our loan agreements. Please see "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – B. Liquidity and Capital Resources – Senior Secured Credit Facilities." We are incorporated in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law, which may negatively affect the ability of public shareholders to protect their interests. We are incorporated under the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and bylaws and by the Marshall slands Business Corporations Act, or BCA. The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Republic of the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the law of the Republic of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain United States jurisdictions. Shareholder rights may differ as well. While the BCA does specifically incorporate the non-statutory law, or judicial case law, of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction. 36 All of our assets are located outside of the United States. Our business is operated primarily from our offices in Athens, Greece. In addition, our directors and officers are non-residents of the United States, and all or a substantial portion of the assets of these non-residents are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the United States if you believe that your rights have been infringed under securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Marshall Islands and of other jurisdictions may prevent or restrict you from enforcing a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. Although you may bring an original action against us, our officers and directors in the courts of the Marshall Islands based on U.S. laws, and the courts of the Marshall Islands may impose civil liability, including monetary damages, against us, our officers or directors for a cause of action arising under Marshall Islands law, it may be impracticable for you to do so given the geographic location of the Marshall Islands. Our Chairman has affiliations with Oceanbulk Group, which could create conflicts of interest. Our Chairman, Mr. Petros Pappas, and his daughter Mrs. Milena-Maria Pappas, one of our directors, founded and are affiliated with the Oceanbulk Group, a group of related companies which are involved in the service sectors of the shipping industry. To the extent that the Oceanbulk Group owns and operates drybulk carriers, this ownership and operation could create conflicts of interest between us, on the one hand, and the Oceanbulk Group, on the other hand. These conflicts may arise in connection with the chartering, purchase, sale and operations of the vessels in our fleet versus drybulk carriers managed and owned by the Oceanbulk Group. There is a risk that we could be treated as a U.S. domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes after the merger of Star Maritime with and into Star Bulk, with Star Bulk as the surviving corporation, or the Redomiciliation Merger, which would adversely affect our earnings. 37 Section 7874(b) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the "Code", provides that, unless certain requirements are satisfied, a corporation organized outside of the United States which acquires substantially all of the assets (through a plan or a series of related transactions) of a corporation organized in the United States will be treated as a U.S. domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes if shareholders of the U.S. corporation whose assets are being acquired own at least 80% of the non-U.S. acquiring corporation after the acquisition. If Section 7874(b) of the Code were to apply to Star Maritime and the Redomiciliation Merger, then, among other consequences, the Company, as the surviving entity of the Redomiciliation Merger, would be subject to U.S. federal income tax as a U.S. domestic corporation on its worldwide income after the Redomiciliation Merger. Upon completion of the Redomiciliation Merger and the concurrent issuance of stock to TMT Co. Ltd., or "TMT", a shipping company headquartered in Taiwan, under the acquisition agreements, the shareholders of Star Maritime owned less than 80% of the Company. Therefore, the Company believes that it should not be subject to Section 7874(b) of the Code after the Redomiciliation Merger. Star Maritime obtained an opinion of its counsel, Seward & Kissel LLP, or "Seward & Kissel", that Section 7874(b) of the Code should not apply to the Redomiciliation Merger. However, there is no authority directly addressing the application of Section 7874(b) of the Code to a transaction such as the Redomiciliation Merger where shares in a foreign corporation such as the Company are issued concurrently with (or shortly after) a merger. In particular, since there is no authority directly applying the "series of related transactions" or "plan" provisions to the post-acquisition stock ownership requirements of Section 7874(b) of the Code, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or the "IRS", may not agree with Seward & Kissel's opinion on this matter. Moreover, Star Maritime has not sought a ruling from the IRS on this point. Therefore, the IRS may seek to assert that we are subject to U.S. federal income tax on our worldwide income for taxable years after the Redomiciliation Merger, although Seward & Kissel is of the opinion that such an assertion should not be successful. We may have to pay tax on U.S. source income, which would reduce our earnings. Under the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel owning or chartering corporation, such as the Company and its subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States is characterized as U.S. source shipping income and such income is subject to a 4% U.S. federal income tax without allowance for deduction, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder by the U.S. Department of the Treasury. We qualify for this statutory tax exemption and we took this position for U.S. federal income tax return reporting purposes for 2013 and and we intend to take this position for 2014. However, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us to lose the benefit of this tax exemption and thereby become subject to U.S. federal income tax on our U.S. source shipping income. For instance, we would no longer qualify for exemption under Section 883 of the Code for a particular taxable year if shareholders, other than qualified shareholders, with a 5% or greater interest in our common stock owned, in the aggregate, 50% or more of our outstanding common stock for more than half the days during the taxable year. Due to the factual nature of the issues involved, we can give no assurances with regard to our tax-exempt status or that of any of our subsidiaries. If we are not entitled to the exemption under Section 883 of the Code for any taxable year, we would be subject during those years to a 4% U.S. federal income tax on our U.S. source shipping income, on a gross basis. The imposition of this tax would have a negative effect on our business and would result in decreased earnings. 38 U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a "passive foreign investment company," which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders. We will be treated as a "passive foreign investment company," or "PFIC", for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of our gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of "passive income" or (2) at least 50% of the average value of our assets produce, or are held for the production of, those types of "passive income," to which the Company refers to as "passive assets." For purposes of these tests, "passive income" includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property, and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute "passive income." U.S. shareholders of a PFIC may be subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. In addition, U.S. shareholders of a PFIC may be required to file an annual report containing such information as the Secretary of the U.S. Department of the Treasury may require. Based on our method of operation, we take the position for U.S. federal income tax purposes that we were not and are not currently, a PFIC with respect to any taxable year. In this regard, we intend to treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we take the position that our income from our time chartering activities does not constitute "passive income", and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute "passive assets". There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our method of operation. In addition, we have not received an opinion of counsel with respect to this issue. We believe there is substantial legal authority supporting our position consisting of case law and IRS pronouncements concerning the characterization of income derived from these time charters as services income for other tax purposes. However, we note that there is also authority which characterizes time charter income as rental income rather than services income for other tax purposes. Accordingly, there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law may not accept our position, and treat us as a PFIC. Moreover, we may constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in the nature and extent of our operations. If the IRS or a court were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our U.S. shareholders may face adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, unless such U.S. shareholders make an election available under the Code (which election could itself have adverse consequences), such U.S. shareholders would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at the then highest income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our common stock, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the U.S. shareholder's holding period of our common stock. 39 Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Certain stockholders hold registration rights, which may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. On September 20, 2011, we filed a registration statement on Form S-8 (File No. 333-176922) that covers the resale of up to 311,006 of our common shares that have been issued under our 2007, 2010 and 2011 equity incentive plans. We have included 485,783 common shares for resale in a universal shelf registration statement (File No. 333-180674), which was declared effective by the Commission July 17, 2012. A Form F-3 registration statement for 7,731,776 common shares was filed with the SEC pursuant to a registration rights agreement and declared effective on November 12, 2013 for shares held by Oaktree and Monarch. The resale of these common shares in addition to the offer and sale of the other securities included in such registration statements and in the Form S-8 may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents could make it difficult for our stockholders to replace or remove our current board of directors or have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Several provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws could make it difficult for our stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors in any one year, preventing them from changing the composition of management. In addition, the same provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable. These provisions include: · authorizing our board of directors to issue "blank check" preferred stock without stockholder approval; · providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three year terms; · prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; and · authorizing the board to call a special meeting at any time. The market price of our common shares has fluctuated widely and may fluctuate widely in the future, or there may be no continuing public market for you to resell our common stock. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated widely since our common shares began trading on the Nasdaq Global Select Market in December 2007, and may continue to do so as a result of many factors such as actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results and those of other public companies in our industry, mergers and strategic alliances in the shipping industry, market conditions in the shipping industry, changes in government regulation, shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecast by securities analysts, announcements concerning us or our competitors and the general state of the securities market. Further, there may be no continuing active or liquid public market for our common stock. 40 The last reported sale price on Nasdaq on March 20, 2014 was $14.65 per share. If the market price of our common shares decreases below $5.00 per share, under stock exchange rules, our shareholders will not be able to use such shares as collateral for borrowing in margin accounts. This inability to continue to use our common shares as collateral may lead to sales of such shares creating downward pressure on and increased volatility in the market price of our common shares. The shipping industry has been highly unpredictable and volatile. The market for common shares in this industry may be equally volatile. Therefore, we cannot assure you that you will be able to sell any of our common shares you may have purchased at a price greater than or equal to its original purchase price, or that you will be able to sell them at all. 