D. Risk factors Some of the following risks relate principally to the industry in which we operate and our business in general. Other risks relate principally to the securities market and ownership of our common stock. The occurrence of any of the events described in this section could significantly and negatively affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash available for dividends or the trading price of our common stock. Industry Specific Risk Factors Any renewal of the recent worldwide economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and financial position. In recent years, operating businesses in the global economy have faced tightening credit, weakening demand for goods and services, deteriorating international liquidity conditions, and declining markets. At times, lower demand for drybulk cargoes as well as diminished trade credit available for the delivery of such cargoes have led to decreased demand for drybulk vessels, creating downward pressure on charter rates. Although vessel values have stabilized over the past few months, general market volatility has resulted from uncertainty about sovereign debt and fears of countries such as Greece and Portugal defaulting on their governments' financial obligations. In addition, continued hostilities in the Middle East, recent tensions in North Africa and the occurrence or threat of terrorist attacks against the United States or other countries could adversely affect the economies of the United States and those of other countries. If the current global economic environment persists or worsens, we may be negatively affected in the following ways: · we may not be able to employ our vessels at charter rates as favorable to us as historical rates or operate our vessels profitably; and · the market value of our vessels could decrease, which may cause us to recognize losses if any of our vessels are sold or if their values are impaired. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Charterhire rates for drybulk carriers are volatile and may further decrease in the future, which would adversely affect our earnings and ability to pay dividends. We currently own and operate a fleet of 13 vessels consisting of five Capesize drybulk carriers, including two Capesize newbuildings that are currently being constructed at Hanjin Heavy Industries, and eight Supramax drybulk carriers with an average age of 10.6 years and a combined cargo carrying capacity of approximately 1,287,686 dwt. The drybulk shipping industry is cyclical with attendant volatility in charterhire rates and profitability. The degree of charterhire rate volatility among different types of drybulk carriers varies widely. The Baltic Dry Index, or the BDI, which is published daily by the Baltic Exchange Limited, or the Baltic Exchange, a London-based membership organization that provides daily shipping market information to the global investing community, is an average of selected ship brokers' assessments of time charter rates paid by a customer to hire a drybulk vessel to transport drybulk cargoes by sea. The BDI has long been viewed as the main benchmark to monitor the movements of the drybulk vessel charter market and the performance of the entire drybulk shipping market. The BDI declined from a high of 11,793 in May 2008 to a low of 663 in December 2008, which represents a decline of 94%. The BDI fell over 70% during the month of October, 2008, alone. During 2009, the BDI remained volatile, reaching a low of 772 on January 5, 2009 and a high of 4,661 on November 19, 2009. The BDI decreased to 2,571 on February 12, 2010 primarily due to uncertainty in the freight markets. The BDI staged a modest recovery based on strong demand for commodities from Asia and a recovering global market, but it has since declined primarily due to increases in vessel supply. As of March 11, 2011, the index was at 1,562. This downturn in drybulk charter rates and their volatility, which has resulted from the economic dislocation worldwide and the disruption of the credit markets, has had and may continue to have a number of adverse consequences for drybulk shipping, including, among other things: 4 · an absence of financing for vessels; · no active second-hand market for the sale of vessels; · extremely low charter rates, particularly for vessels employed in the spot market; · widespread loan covenant defaults in the drybulk shipping industry; and · declaration of bankruptcy by some operators and shipowners as well as charterers. The occurrence of one or more of these events could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. The drybulk charter market may not recover and the market could decline further. If the drybulk shipping market remains depressed in the future our earnings and available cash flow may decrease. Our ability to re-charter our vessels on the expiration or termination of their current time charters and the charter rates payable under any renewal or replacement charters will depend upon, among other things, economic conditions in the drybulk shipping market. An over-supply of drybulk carrier capacity may prolong or further depress the current low charter rates and, in turn, adversely affect our profitability. Fluctuations in charter rates and vessel values result from changes in the supply and demand for drybulk cargoes carried internationally at sea, including coal, iron, ore, grains and minerals. The market supply of drybulk carriers has been increasing, and the number of drybulk carriers on order was recently at near historic highs. These newbuildings were delivered in significant numbers starting at the beginning of 2006 and continued to be delivered in significant numbers through 2010. While vessel supply will continue to be affected by the delivery of new vessels and the removal of vessels from the global fleet, either through scrapping or accidental losses, an over-supply of drybulk carrier capacity, particularly in conjunction with the currently low level of demand, could exacerbate the recent decrease in charter rates or prolong the period during which low charter rates prevail. If the current low charter rate environment persists, or a further reduction occurs, during a period when the current charters for our drybulk carriers expire or are terminated, we may only be able to recharter those vessels at reduced rates or we may not be able to charter our vessels at all. The charters for seven of our vessels expire in 2011. The factors affecting the supply and demand for vessel capacity are outside of our control, and the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable. The factors that influence demand for vessel capacity include: · demand for and production of drybulk products; · global and regional economic and political conditions; · the distance drybulk cargo is to be moved by sea; and · changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns. The factors that influence the supply of vessel capacity include: · the number of new building deliveries; 5 · port and canal congestion; · the scrapping of older vessels; · vessel casualties; and · the number of vessels that are out of service. In addition to the prevailing and anticipated freight rates, factors that affect the rate of newbuilding, scrapping and laying-up include newbuilding prices, secondhand vessel values in relation to scrap prices, costs of bunkers and other operating costs, costs associated with classification society surveys, normal maintenance and insurance coverage, the efficiency and age profile of the existing fleet in the market and government and industry regulation of maritime transportation practices, particularly environmental protection laws and regulations. These factors influencing the supply of and demand for shipping capacity are outside of our control, and we may not be able to correctly assess the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions. We anticipate that the future demand for our drybulk carriers will be dependent upon continued economic growth in the world's economies, including China and India, seasonal and regional changes in demand, changes in the capacity of the global drybulk carrier fleet and the sources and supply of drybulk cargo to be transported by sea. The capacity of the global drybulk carrier fleet seems likely to increase and economic growth may not continue. Adverse economic, political, social or other developments could also have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. An economic slowdown in the Asia Pacific region could exacerbate the effect of recent slowdowns in the economies of the United States and the European Union and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We anticipate a significant number of the port calls made by our vessels will continue to involve the loading or discharging of drybulk commodities in ports in the Asia Pacific region. As a result, any negative changes in economic conditions in any Asia Pacific country, particularly in China, may exacerbate the effect of recent slowdowns in the economies of the United States and the European Union and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our future prospects. Before the global economic financial crisis that began in 2008, China had one of the world's fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product, or GDP, which had a significant impact on shipping demand. While the growth rate of China's gross domestic product increased to approximately 10.3% for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to approximately 9.1% for the year ended December 31, 2009, the Chinese GDP growth rate remains below pre-2008 levels. China has recently imposed measures to restrain lending, which may further contribute to a slowdown in its economic growth. It is possible that China and other countries in the Asia Pacific region will continue to experience slowed or even negative economic growth in the near future. Moreover, the current economic slowdown in the economies of the United States, the European Union and other Asian countries may further adversely affect economic growth in China and elsewhere. Our business, financial condition and results of operations, ability to pay dividends as well as our future prospects, will likely be materially and adversely affected by a further economic downturn in any of these countries. The recent earthquake and tsunami in Japan may have an adverse affect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Japan is one of the world's leading importers of oil and dry bulk commodities. The earthquake and tsunami that occurred in Japan on March 11, 2011 have caused an estimated $180 billion of damage and has threatened to send the Japanese economy into a recession. As of the date of this annual report, the extent to which the earthquake and tsunami will affect the international shipping industry is unclear. With the third largest economy in the world, a prolonged recovery period with a relatively stagnant Japanese economy could decrease oil and dry bulk imports to that country. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 6 Sharp declines in the spot drybulk charter market may affect our earnings and cash flows from the vessels we operate in the spot market. We currently employ two of our vessels in the spot market. During 2010, we did not have any revenues derived from the spot market. Vessels trading in the spot market are exposed to increased risk of declining charter rates and freight rate volatility compared to vessels employed on time charters. Since mid-August 2008, the spot day rates in the drybulk charter market have declined significantly, and drybulk vessel values have also declined both as a result of a slowdown in the availability of global credit and the significant deterioration in charter rates. Charter rates and vessel values have been affected in part by the lack of availability of credit to finance both vessel purchases and purchases of commodities carried by sea, resulting in a decline in cargo shipments, and the excess supply of iron ore in China which resulted in falling iron ore prices and increased stockpiles in Chinese ports. Charter rates may remain at depressed levels for some time which will adversely affect our revenue and profitability. The market values of our vessels have declined and may further decline, which could limit the amount of funds that we can borrow or trigger certain financial covenants under our current or future credit facilities and/or we may incur a loss if we sell vessels following a decline in their market value. The fair market values of our vessels have generally experienced high volatility and have declined significantly. The market prices for secondhand Capesize and Supramax drybulk carriers have decreased sharply from their historically high levels. The fair market value of our vessels may continue to fluctuate (i.e., increase and decrease) depending on a number of factors including: · prevailing level of charter rates; · general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry; · types and sizes of vessels; · supply and demand for vessels; · other modes of transportation; · cost of newbuildings; · governmental or other regulations; and · technological advances. In addition, as vessels grow older, they generally decline in value. If the fair market value of our vessels declines further, we may not be in compliance with certain provisions of our amended term loans and we may not be able to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing. In addition, if we sell one or more of our vessels at a time when vessel prices have fallen, the vessel or vessels would be classified as assets held for sale, and would result in a loss and a reduction in earnings. Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels have recently increased in frequency, which could adversely affect our business. Acts of piracy have historically affected ocean-going vessels trading in regions of the world such as the South China Sea and in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Over the last several years, the frequency of piracy incidents has increased significantly, particularly in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia and towards the Mozambique Canal in the North Indian Ocean. For example, in April 2010, the M/V Samho Dream, a tanker vessel not affiliated with us, was captured by pirates in the Indian Ocean off the Somali coast while carrying crude oil estimated to be worth $170.0 million. The vessel was in waters not normally known to be high risk seas for pirate attacks and was only released in November 2010 reportedly following a ransom payment in an undisclosed amount. On January 15, 2011, the M/V Samho Jewelry, a tanker vessel not affiliated with us, was captured by pirates off the coast of Oman and was released following military action on January 21, 2011. According to industry sources as of March 14, 2011 there were approximately 25 vessels and 577 hostages being held by pirates off the coast of Somalia and the average amount of time that vessels and hostages are being detained by pirates is increasing. 7 If these piracy attacks result in regions in which our vessels are deployed being characterized by insurers as "war risk" zones, as the Gulf of Aden temporarily was in May 2008, or Joint War Committee (JWC) "war and strikes" listed areas, premiums payable for such coverage could increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. Crew costs, including those due to employing onboard security guards, could increase in such circumstances. In addition, while we believe the charterer remains liable for charter payments when a vessel is seized by pirates, the charterer may dispute this and withhold charter hire until the vessel is released. A charterer may also claim that a vessel seized by pirates was not "on-hire" for a certain number of days and it is therefore entitled to cancel the charter party, a claim that we would dispute. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, detention hijacking as a result of an act of piracy against our vessels, or an increase in cost, or unavailability of insurance for our vessels, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In response to piracy incidents since 2008, particularly in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia, following consultation with regulatory authorities, we may station guards on some of our vessels in some instances. While our use of guards is intended to deter and prevent the hijacking of our vessels, it may also increase our risk of liability for death or injury to persons or damage to personal property. While we believe we will generally have adequate insurance in place to cover such liability, if we do not, it could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Disruptions in world financial markets and the resulting governmental action in the United States and in other parts of the world could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and could cause the market price of our common stock to further decline. In 2008 and 2009 the United States and other parts of the world exhibited deteriorating economic trends and were in a recession. For example, the credit markets in the United States experienced significant contraction, de-leveraging and reduced liquidity, and the United States federal government and state governments have implemented and are continuing to implement a broad variety of governmental action and/or new regulation of the financial markets. Securities and futures markets and the credit markets are subject to comprehensive statutes, regulations and other requirements. The Commission, other regulators, self-regulatory organizations and exchanges are authorized to take extraordinary actions in the event of market emergencies, and may effect changes in law or interpretations of existing laws. During 2008 and 2009 and recently, a number of financial institutions experienced serious financial difficulties and, in some cases, have entered bankruptcy proceedings or are in regulatory enforcement actions. These difficulties have resulted, in part, from declining markets for assets held by such institutions, particularly the reduction in the value of their mortgage and asset-backed securities portfolios. These difficulties have been compounded by a general decline in the willingness by banks and other financial institutions to extend credit. In addition, these difficulties may adversely affect the financial institutions that provide our credit facilities and may impair their ability to continue to perform under their financing obligations to us, which could have an impact on our ability to fund current and future obligations, including our ability to take delivery of our newbuildings. As of March 21, 2011, we had total outstanding indebtedness of $217.7 million and the ability to draw down an additional $48.6 million under our existing credit facilities. We face risks attendant to changes in economic environments, changes in interest rates, and instability in the banking and securities markets around the world, among other factors. Major market disruptions and the current adverse changes in market conditions and regulatory climate in the United States and worldwide may adversely affect our business or impair our ability to borrow amounts under our credit facilities or any future financial arrangements. We cannot predict how long the current market conditions will last. However, these recent and developing economic and governmental factors, together with the concurrent decline in charter rates and vessel values, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, have caused the trading price of our common shares on the Nasdaq Global Select Market to decline precipitously and could cause the price of our common shares to continue to decline or impair our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. 8 Charter rates are subject to seasonal fluctuations and market volatility, which may adversely affect our financial condition and ability to pay dividends. We charter all of our vessels on medium- to long-term time charters with an average remaining term of approximately 1.9 years, other than the Star Cosmo and Star Omicron that are currently employed in the spot market. Demand for vessel capacity has historically exhibited seasonal variations and, as a result, fluctuations in charter rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our operating results for vessels trading in the spot market. The drybulk sector is typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of coal and other raw materials in the northern hemisphere. As a result, our revenues from our drybulk carriers may be weaker during the fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30, and, conversely, our revenues from our drybulk carriers may be stronger in fiscal quarters ended December 31 and March 31. Seasonality in the sector in which we operate could materially affect our operating results and cash available for dividends in the future. Rising fuel prices may adversely affect our profits. Fuel is a significant, if not the largest, expense in our shipping operations when vessels are not under period charter. Changes in the price of fuel may adversely affect our profitability. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. Further, fuel may become much more expensive in the future, which may reduce the profitability and competitiveness of our business versus other forms of transportation, such as truck or rail. We are subject to international safety regulations and the failure to comply with these regulations may subject us to increased liability, may adversely affect our insurance coverage and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. Our business and the operation of our vessels are materially affected by government regulation in the form of international conventions, national, state and local laws and regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which the vessels operate, as well as in the country or countries of their registration. Because such conventions, laws, and regulations are often revised, we cannot predict the ultimate cost of complying with such conventions, laws and regulations or the impact thereof on the resale prices or useful lives of our vessels. Additional conventions, laws and regulations may be adopted which could limit our ability to do business or increase the cost of our doing business and which may materially adversely affect our operations. We are required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses, certificates, and financial assurances with respect to our operations. The operation of our vessels is affected by the requirements set forth in the United Nations' International Maritime Organization's International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and Pollution Prevention, or ISM Code. The ISM Code requires shipowners, ship managers and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive "Safety Management System" that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. The failure of a shipowner or bareboat charterer to comply with the ISM Code may subject it to increased liability, may invalidate existing insurance or decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. If we are subject to increased liability for noncompliance or if our insurance coverage is adversely impacted as a result of noncompliance, we may have less cash available for distribution to our stockholders as dividends. If any of our vessels are denied access to, or are detained in, certain ports, this may decrease our revenues. 9 We operate our vessels worldwide and as a result, our vessels are exposed to international risks which may reduce revenue or increase expenses. The international shipping industry is an inherently risky business involving global operations. Our vessels are at a risk of damage or loss because of events such as mechanical failure, collision, human error, war, terrorism, piracy, cargo loss and bad weather. In addition, changing economic, regulatory and political conditions in some countries, including political and military conflicts, have from time to time resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways, piracy, terrorism, labor strikes and boycotts. These sorts of events could interfere with shipping routes and result in market disruptions which may reduce our revenue or increase our expenses. If our vessels call on ports located in countries that are subject to restrictions imposed by the U.S. or other governments, that could adversely affect our reputation and the market for our common stock. From time to time on charterers' instructions, our vessels may call on ports located in countries subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the United States government and countries identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism. The U.S. sanctions and embargo laws and regulations vary in their application, as they do not all apply to the same covered persons or proscribe the same activities, and such sanctions and embargo laws and regulations may be amended or strengthened over time. In 2010, the U.S. enacted the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions Accountability and Divestment Act ("CISADA"), which expanded the scope of the former Iran Sanctions Act. Among other things, CISADA expands the application of the prohibitions to non-U.S. companies, such as our company, and introduces limits on the ability of companies and persons to do business or trade with Iran when such activities relate to the investment, supply or export of refined petroleum or petroleum products. Although we believe that we are in compliance with all applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations, and intend to maintain such compliance, we may not be in compliance in the future, particularly as the scope of certain laws may be unclear and may be subject to changing interpretations. Any such violation could result in fines or other penalties and could result in some investors deciding, or being required, to divest their interest, or not to invest, in our company. Additionally, some investors may decide to divest their interest, or not to invest, in our company simply because we do business with companies that do business in sanctioned countries. Moreover, our charterers may violate applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations as a result of actions that do not involve us or our vessels, and those violations could in turn negatively affect our reputation. Investor perception of the value of our common stock may also be adversely affected by the consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest and governmental actions in these and surrounding countries. Political instability, terrorist attacks and international hostilities can affect the seaborne transportation industry, which could adversely affect our business. We conduct most of our operations outside of the United States, and our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends if reinstated in the future may be adversely affected by changing economic, political and government conditions in the countries and regions where our vessels are employed or registered. Moreover, we operate in a sector of the economy that is likely to be adversely impacted by the effects of political conflicts, including the current political instability in Egypt, terrorist or other attacks, war or international hostilities. Terrorist attacks such as those in New York on September 11, 2001, in London on July 7, 2005, and in Mumbai on November 26, 2008, and the continuing response of the United States and others to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks around the world, continues to cause uncertainty in the world's financial markets and may affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Continuing conflicts and recent developments in the Middle East and North Africa, and the presence of U.S. and other armed forces in Iraq and Afghanistan may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea and the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, such as the attack on the Limburg in October 2002, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. 10 Increased inspection procedures and tighter import and export controls could increase costs and disrupt our business. International shipping is subject to various security and customs inspection and related procedures in countries of origin and destination. Inspection procedures may result in the seizure of contents of our vessels, delays in the loading, offloading or delivery and the levying of customs duties, fines or other penalties against us. It is possible that changes to inspection procedures could impose additional financial and legal obligations on us. Changes to inspection procedures could also impose additional costs and obligations on our customers and may, in certain cases, render the shipment of certain types of cargo uneconomical or impractical. Any such changes or developments may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Maritime claimants could arrest one or more of our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a claimant may seek to obtain security for its claim by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay large sums of money to have the arrest or attachment lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the "sister ship" theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant's maritime lien and any "associated" vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could attempt to assert "sister ship" liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another of our vessels. Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in a loss of earnings. A government could requisition one or more of our vessels for title or for hire. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes its owner, while requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes its charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during periods of war or emergency, although governments may elect to requisition vessels in other circumstances. Although we would be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition of one or more of our vessels, the amount and timing of payment would be uncertain. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels may negatively impact our revenues and reduce the amount of cash we have available for distribution as dividends to our stockholders. Company Specific Risk Factors Substantial debt levels could limit our flexibility to obtain additional financing or pursue other business opportunities. As of March 21, 2011, we had outstanding indebtedness of $217.7 million and we expect to incur additional indebtedness as we continue to grow our fleet. Currently, we have additional borrowing capacity of $48.6 million under our Credit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank loan facility. This level of debt could have important consequences to us, including the following: · we may not be able to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes or such financing may be unavailable on favorable terms; · we may need to use a substantial portion of our cash from operations to make principal and interest payments on our debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and dividends to our shareholders; 11 · our debt level could make us more vulnerable than our competitors with less debt to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and · our debt level may limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating income is not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. We may not be able to effect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms, or at all. In addition, a lack of liquidity in the debt and equity markets could hinder our ability to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing on favorable terms in the future. In addition, our loan agreements may impose operation restrictions on us such as changing the management of our vessels. Please see "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Senior Secured Credit Facilities." We may be unable to comply with the covenants contained in our loan agreements, which would affect our ability to conduct our business. Our loan agreements for our borrowings, which are secured by liens on our vessels, contain various financial and other covenants. Among those covenants are requirements that relate to our financial position, operating performance and liquidity. For example, under certain provisions of our loan agreements we are required to maintain a ratio of the fair market value of our vessels to the aggregate amounts outstanding of 120% for the first three years and 135% thereafter. The market value of drybulk vessels is sensitive, among other things, to changes in the drybulk charter market, with vessel values deteriorating in times when drybulk charter rates are falling and improving when charter rates are anticipated to rise. The current decline in charter rates in the drybulk market coupled with the prevailing difficulty in obtaining financing for vessel purchases have adversely affected drybulk vessel values, including the vessels in our fleet. As a result, we may not meet certain minimum asset coverage covenants in our loan agreements. In March and December 2009, we entered into agreements with each of our lenders to obtain waivers for certain covenants including minimum asset coverage covenants contained in our loan agreements. Under the terms of our waiver agreements, as amended, our dividend payments, share repurchases and investments are subject to the prior written consent of our lenders. In addition, for the duration of the waiver periods the interest spread for each of the above referenced loans will be adjusted to 2% per annum. Following the waiver period, the interest spread under our $150.0 million and $35.0 million loan facilities will be adjusted to 1.5% and under our $120 million loan facility the interest spread will be adjusted to that provided in the initial loan agreement. Please see "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Senior Secured Credit Facilities." If we are not in compliance with our covenants and we are not able to obtain additional covenant waivers or modifications, our lenders could require us to post additional collateral, enhance our equity and liquidity, increase our interest payments or pay down our indebtedness to a level where we are in compliance with our loan covenants, sell vessels in our fleet, or they could accelerate our indebtedness, which would impair our ability to continue to conduct our business. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we might not be able to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing and could lose our vessels if our lenders foreclose their liens. In addition, if we find it necessary to sell our vessels at a time when vessel prices are low, we will recognize losses and a reduction in our earnings, which could affect our ability to raise additional capital necessary for us to comply with our loan agreements. 12 Our lenders have imposed a restriction on our dividend payments under the terms of our waiver agreements. As a result of restrictions imposed by our lenders, including the restriction on dividend payments under the terms of our waiver agreements, we may not be able to pay dividends. We previously paid regular dividends on a quarterly basis from our operating surplus, in amounts that allowed us to retain a portion of our cash flows to fund vessel or fleet acquisitions, and for debt repayment and other corporate purposes, as determined by our management and board of directors. Under the terms of our waiver agreements with our lenders, payment of dividends and repurchases of our shares and warrants are subject to the prior written consent of our lenders. With the consent of our lenders, (i) in February 2010, we declared a dividend of $0.05 per outstanding share of our common stock for the three months ending December 31, 2009 that was paid on March 11, 2010 to shareholders of record as of March 8, 2010, (ii) in May 2010, we declared a dividend of $0.05 per outstanding share of our common stock for the three months ended March 31, 2010 that was paid on June 4, 2010 to shareholders of record on May 31, 2010, (iii) in August 2010, we declared a dividend of $0.05 per outstanding share of our common stock for the three months ending June 30, 2010 that was paid on August 30, 2010 to shareholders of record as of August 25, 2010, (iv) in November 2010, we declared a dividend of $0.05 per outstanding share of our common stock for the three months ending September 30, 2010 that was paid on December 6, 2010 to shareholders of record as of November 30, 2010, and (v) in February 2011, we declared a dividend of $0.05 per outstanding share of our common stock for the three months ending December 31, 2010 that was paid on March 9, 2011 to shareholders of record as of March 4, 2011. In addition, the payment of any future dividends will be subject at all times to the discretion of our board of directors and the consent of our lenders. The timing and amount of dividends will depend on our earnings, financial condition, cash requirements and availability, fleet renewal and expansion, restrictions in our loan agreements, the provisions of Marshall Islands law affecting the payment of dividends and other factors. Marshall Islands law generally prohibits the payment of dividends other than from surplus or while a company is insolvent or would be rendered insolvent upon the payment of such dividends, or if there is no surplus, dividends may be declared or paid out of net profits for the fiscal year. We are dependent on medium- to long-term time charters in a volatile shipping industry and a decline in charterhire rates would affect our results of operations and ability to pay dividends. We charter all of our vessels on medium- to long-term time charters with an average remaining term of approximately 1.9 years, other than Star Cosmo and Star Omicron that are currently employed in the spot market. The time charter market is highly competitive and spot market charterhire rates (which affect time charter rates) may fluctuate significantly based upon available charters and the supply of, and demand for, seaborne shipping capacity. Our ability to re-charter our vessels on the expiration or termination of their current time charters and the charter rates payable under any renewal or replacement charters will depend upon, among other things, economic conditions in the drybulk shipping market. The drybulk carrier charter market is volatile, and in the past, time charter and spot market charter rates for drybulk carriers have declined below operating costs of vessels. If future charterhire rates are depressed, we may not be able to operate our vessels profitably or to pay dividends to our shareholders. Delays or defaults by the shipyards in the construction of our newbuildings could increase our expenses and diminish our net income and cash flows We currently have newbuilding contracts for the construction of a total of two Capesize drybulk vessels at Hanjin Heavy Industries. These projects are subject to the risk of delay or defaults by the shipyards caused by, among other things, unforeseen quality or engineering problems, work stoppages, weather interference, unanticipated cost increases, delays in receipt of necessary equipment, and inability to obtain the requisite permits or approvals. In accordance with industry practice, in the event the shipyards are unable or unwilling to deliver the vessels, we may not have substantial remedies. Failure to construct or deliver the ships by the shipyards or any significant delays could increase our expenses and diminish our net income and cash flows. Default by our charterers may lead to decreased revenues and a reduction in earnings. Consistent with drybulk shipping industry practice, we have not independently analyzed the creditworthiness of the charterers. Our revenues may be dependent on the performance of our charterers and, as a result, defaults by our charterers may materially adversely affect our revenues. 13 We depend upon a few significant customers for a large part of our revenues and the loss of one or more of these customers could adversely affect our financial performance. We derive a significant part of our charterhire from a small number of customers, with 87% of our voyage revenues, as presented in our statement of operations, for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 generated from six charterers. Currently, nine of our vessels are employed under fixed rate period charters to seven customers. If one or more of these customers is unable to perform under one or more charters with us and we are not able to find a replacement charter, or if a customer exercises certain rights to terminate the charter, we could suffer a loss of revenues that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash available for distribution as dividends to our shareholders. We could lose a customer or the benefits of a time charter if, among other things: · the customer fails to make charter payments because of its financial inability, disagreements with us or otherwise; · the customer terminates the charter because we fail to deliver the vessel within a fixed period of time, the vessel is lost or damaged beyond repair, there are serious deficiencies in the vessel or prolonged periods of off-hire, default under the charter; or · the customer terminates the charter because the vessel has been subject to seizure for more than a specified number of days. If we lose a key customer, we may be unable to obtain charters on comparable terms or may become subject to the volatile spot market, which is highly competitive and subject to significant price fluctuations. One of our time charters on which we deploy our vessels provide for charter rates that are significantly above current market rates, particularly spot market rates that most directly reflect the current depressed levels of the drybulk charter market. If it were necessary to secure substitute employment, in the spot market or on time charters, for any of these vessels due to the loss of a customer in these market conditions, such employment would be at a significantly lower charter rate than currently generated by such vessel, or we may be unable to secure a charter at all, in either case, resulting in a significant reduction in revenues. The loss of any of our customers or time charters, or a decline in payments under our charters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. The failure of our charterers to meet their obligations under our time charter agreements, on which we depend for substantially all of our revenues, could cause us to suffer losses or otherwise adversely affect our business. We charter all of our vessels on medium- to long-term time charters with an average remaining term of approximately 1.9 years, other than Star Cosmo and Star Omicron that are currently employed in the spot market. For the year ended December 31, 2010, 87% of our voyage revenues-net of commissions were generated from six charterers. The ability and willingness of each of our counterparties to perform its obligations under a time charter agreement with us will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control and may include, among other things, general economic conditions, the condition of the drybulk shipping industry and the overall financial condition of the counterparties. Charterers are sensitive to the commodity markets and may be impacted by market forces affecting commodities such as iron ore, coal, grain, and other minor bulks. In addition, in these depressed market conditions, certain charterers, including some of our charterers, are renegotiating the terms of the charters or defaulting on their obligations under the charters. The time charters for one of our vessels the Star Zeta provide for charter rates that are significantly above market rates as of March 21, 2011. Should a counterparty fail to honor its obligations under agreements with us, it may be difficult to secure substitute employment for such vessel, and any new charter arrangements we secure in the spot market or through a time charter would be at lower rates because of the currently depressed drybulk carrier charter rate levels. The Star Epsilon and the Star Kappa were previously time chartered until 2014 Star Ypsilon until July 2011 and Star Gamma until November 2011. We withdrew the vessels from their charterers' service because of the charterers' repudiatory breach of time charter agreements. Arbitration proceedings have commenced against the vessels' charterers in London to pursue damages arising from such breach, which will include the loss of hire. In October 2010, we settled our outstanding claims with respect to the Star Ypsilon. We have employed the vessels under new time charter agreements at rates that are lower than we would have earned under the previous charter agreements. The Star Sigma was previously fixed for a minimum of 36 months and a maximum of 41 months and following renegotiation with the charterer, we agreed to amend the charter to provide for a minimum of 56 months and a maximum of 61 months at a lower rate. On February 18, 2011, we received a letter from Korea Line Corporation ("KLC"), the charterer of the Star Gamma, requesting an agreement on adjustment of charter hire. Additionally, we were notified of the commencement of rehabilitation proceedings of KLC in Korea and the related schedule for making claims against KLC in those proceedings. The charter with KLC has a term that ends in December 2011. Currently, KLC owes us approximately $1.8 million in charterhire for the vessel. We have asserted liens in respect of certain amounts due to KLC under sub-charters relating to the vessel and plan to vigorously pursue all amounts owned to us by KLC under the charter, including any damages for the breach of that charter. If our charterers fail to meet their obligations to us or attempt to renegotiate our charter agreements, we could sustain significant losses which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as our ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future. We refer you to Item 8. Financial Information – Legal Proceedings for a discussion of the outstanding claims related to our vessels. 14 We are subject to certain risks with respect to our counterparties on contracts, and failure of such counterparties to meet their obligations could cause us to suffer losses or otherwise adversely affect our business. We have entered into various contracts, including charterparties and contracts of affreightment, or COAs with our customers, newbuilding contracts with shipyards and our credit facilities. We also enter into time charters and voyage charters as a charterer. These agreements subject us to counterparty risks. The ability of each of our counterparties to perform its obligations under a contract with us will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control and may include, among other things, general economic conditions, the condition of the maritime industry, the overall financial condition of the counterparty, charter rates received for specific types of vessels, and various expenses. We seek to minimize our counterparty risk by doing business with well established customers and financial institutions. Should a counterparty fail to honor its obligations under agreements with us, we could sustain significant losses which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Investment in derivative instruments such as freight forward agreements or other derivative instruments could result in losses. From time to time, we may take positions in derivative instruments including freight forward agreements, or FFAs and other derivative instruments. Generally, FFAs and other derivative instruments may be used to hedge a vessel owner's exposure to the charter market for a specified route and period of time. Upon settlement, if the contracted charter rate is less than the average of the rates, as reported by an identified index, for the specified route and time period, the seller of the FFA is required to pay the buyer an amount equal to the difference between the contracted rate and the settlement rate, multiplied by the number of days in the specified period. Conversely, if the contracted rate is greater than the settlement rate, the buyer is required to pay the seller the settlement sum. If we take positions in FFAs or other derivative instruments we could suffer losses in the settling or termination of the FFA or other derivative instruments. This could adversely affect our results of operation and cash flow. We may have difficulty managing our planned growth properly. We intend to continue to expand our fleet. Our growth will depend on: · locating and acquiring suitable vessels; · identifying and consummating acquisitions or joint ventures; · obtaining required financing; 15 · integrating any acquired vessels successfully with our existing operations; · enhancing our customer base; and · managing our expansion. Growing any business by acquisition presents numerous risks such as undisclosed liabilities and obligations, difficulty experienced in obtaining additional qualified personnel and managing relationships with customers and suppliers and integrating newly acquired operations into existing infrastructures. We may not be successful in executing our growth plans and may incur significant expenses and losses. Increases in LIBOR could affect our profitability, earnings and cash flow. Interest in most loan agreements in our industry has been based on published LIBOR rates. The London market for Dollar loans between banks has recently been volatile, with the spread between published LIBOR and the lending rates actually charged to banks in the London interbank market widening significantly at times. For the past two years LIBOR was at historical lows. Because the interest rates borne by our outstanding indebtedness fluctuate with changes in LIBOR, an increase in LIBOR would affect the amount of interest payable on our debt, which in turn, could have an adverse effect on our profitability, earnings and cash flow. In addition, in the waiver agreements with our lenders, we have agreed to replace published LIBOR as the base for the interest calculation with their cost-of-funds rate. This could increase our lending costs significantly, which would have an adverse effect on our profitability, earnings and cash flow. In the highly competitive international drybulk shipping industry, we may not be able to compete for charters with new entrants or established companies with greater resources which may adversely affect our results of operations. We employ our vessels in a highly competitive market that is capital intensive and highly fragmented. Competition arises primarily from other vessel owners, some of whom have substantially greater resources than us. Competition for the transportation of drybulk cargoes can be intense and depends on price, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the vessel and its managers to the charterers. Due in part to the highly fragmented market, competitors with greater resources could operate larger fleets through consolidations or acquisitions and may be able to offer more favorable terms. We may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel and other employees in the shipping industry, which may negatively affect the effectiveness of our management and our results of operations. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of our management team. As of March 21, 2011, we had thirty-one employees. Twenty-nine of our employees, through our wholly owned subsidiaries, Star Bulk Management Inc., or Star Bulk Management, and Starbulk S.A, are engaged in the day to day management of the vessels in our fleet. Our success depends upon our ability to retain key members of our management team and the ability of Star Bulk Management to recruit and hire suitable employees. The loss of any members of our senior management team could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. Difficulty in hiring and retaining personnel could adversely affect our results of operations. We do not maintain "key-man" life insurance on any of our officers or employees of Star Bulk Management and/or Starbulk S.A. 16 We depend on officers who may engage in other business activities in the international shipping industry which may create conflicts of interest. Spyros Capralos, our Chief Executive Officer, President and a member of our board of directors, and George Syllantavos, our Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and member of our board of directors participate in business activities not associated with the Company. As a result, Mr. Capralos and Mr. Syllantavos may devote less time to the Company than if they were not engaged in other business activities and may owe fiduciary duties to the shareholders of both the Company as well as shareholders of other companies with which they may be affiliated, which may create conflicts of interest in matters involving or affecting the Company and its customers. It is not certain that any of these conflicts of interest will be resolved in our favor. In accordance with our code of ethics, which is located on our website at www.starbulk.com, all ongoing and future transactions between us and any of its officers and directors or their respective affiliates, will be on terms believed by us to be no less favorable than are available from unaffiliated third parties, and such transactions will require prior approval, in each instance by a majority of our uninterested "independent" directors or the members of our board who do not have an interest in the transaction, in either case who had access, at our expense, to its attorneys or independent legal counsel. We may be unable to attract and retain qualified, skilled employees or crew necessary to operate our business. Our success depends in large part on the ability of us to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. In crewing our vessels, we require technically skilled employees with specialized training who can perform physically demanding work. Competition to attract and retain qualified crew members is intense. If we are not able to obtain higher charter rates to compensate for any crew cost increases, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. If we cannot hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, we may be unable to manage, maintain and grow our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The smuggling of drugs or other contraband onto our vessels may lead to governmental claims against us. Our vessels may call in ports where smugglers attempt to hide drugs and other contraband on vessels, with or without the knowledge of crew members. To the extent our vessels are found with contraband, whether inside or attached to the hull of our vessel and whether with or without the knowledge of any of our crew, we may face governmental or other regulatory claims or restrictions which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As we expand our fleet, we will need to expand our operations and financial systems and hire new shoreside staff and seafarers to staff our vessels; if we cannot expand these systems or recruit suitable employees, our performance may be adversely affected. Our operating and financial systems may not be adequate as we expand our fleet, and our attempts to implement those systems may be ineffective. In addition, we rely on our wholly-owned subsidiaries, Star Bulk Management and Starbulk S.A., to recruit shoreside administrative and management personnel and for crew management. Shoreside personnel are recruited by Star Bulk Management and Starbulk S.A. through referrals from other shipping companies and traditional methods of securing personnel, such as placing classified advertisements in shipping industry periodicals. Star Bulk Management has sub-contracted crew management for Star Cosmo, which includes the recruitment of seafarers to Union Commercial Inc., or Union. Star Bulk Management, Starbulk S.A. and its crewing agent may not be able to continue to hire suitable employees as Star Bulk expands its fleet. If we are unable to operate our financial and operations systems effectively, recruit suitable employees or if our unaffiliated crewing agent encounters business or financial difficulties, our performance may be materially adversely affected. 17 Labor interruptions could disrupt our business. Star Bulk Management and Starbulk S.A. provide the crew for all of our vessels other than Star Cosmo, which are manned by masters, officers and crews that are employed by our shipowning subsidiaries. If not resolved in a timely and cost-effective manner, industrial action or other labor unrest could prevent or hinder our operations from being carried out normally and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations in the form of international conventions and treaties, national, state and local laws and national and international regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which our vessels operate or are registered, which can significantly affect the ownership and operation of our vessels. These requirements include, but are not limited to, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage of 1969, the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships of 1975, the International Maritime Organization, or IMO, International Convention for the Prevention of Marine Pollution of 1973, the IMO International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea of 1974, the International Convention on Load Lines of 1966, the U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, the U.S. Clean Air Act, U.S. Clean Water Act and the U.S. Marine Transportation Security Act of 2002. Compliance with such laws, regulations and standards, where applicable, may require installation of costly equipment or operational changes and may affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels. We may also incur additional costs in order to comply with other existing and future regulatory obligations, including, but not limited to, costs relating to air emissions, the management of ballast waters, maintenance and inspection, elimination of tin-based paint, development and implementation of emergency procedures and insurance coverage or other financial assurance of our ability to address pollution incidents. These costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. A failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of our operations. Environmental laws often impose strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, which could subject us to liability without regard to whether we were negligent or at fault. Under OPA, for example, owners, operators and bareboat charterers are jointly and severally strictly liable for the discharge of oil within the 200-mile exclusive economic zone around the United States. An oil spill could result in significant liability, including fines, penalties and criminal liability and remediation costs for natural resource damages under other federal, state and local laws, as well as third-party damages. We are required to satisfy insurance and financial responsibility requirements for potential oil (including marine fuel) spills and other pollution incidents. Although we have arranged insurance to cover certain environmental risks, such insurance may not be sufficient to cover all such risks or any claims will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future. If our vessels fail to maintain their class certification and/or fail any annual survey, intermediate survey, dry-docking or special survey, that vessel would be unable to carry cargo, thereby reducing our revenues and profitability and violating certain covenants under our credit facilities. The hull and machinery of every commercial drybulk vessel must be classed by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and the Safety of Life at Sea Convention, or SOLAS. All of our vessels are certified as being "in class" by RINA a major classification society. A vessel must undergo annual surveys, dry-dockings and special surveys. In lieu of a special survey, a vessel's machinery may be on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. Every vessel is also required to be dry-docked every two to three years for inspection of the underwater parts of such vessel. If any vessel does not maintain its class and/or fails any annual survey, intermediate survey, dry-docking or special survey, the vessel will be unable to carry cargo between ports and will be unemployable and uninsurable which could cause us to be in violation of certain covenants in our credit facilities. Any such inability to carry cargo or be employed, or any such violation of covenants, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 18 Our vessels may suffer damage due to the inherent operational risks of the seaborne transportation industry and we may experience unexpected drydocking costs, which may adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our vessels and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as marine disasters, bad weather, business interruptions caused by mechanical failures, grounding, fire, explosions and collisions, human error, war, terrorism, piracy and other circumstances or events. These hazards may result in death or injury to persons, loss of revenues or property, environmental damage, higher insurance rates, damage to our customer relationships, delay or rerouting. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility. For example, the costs of drydock repairs are unpredictable and may be substantial. We may have to pay drydocking costs that our insurance does not cover in full. The loss of earnings while these vessels are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our earnings. In addition, space at drydocking facilities is sometimes limited and not all drydocking facilities are conveniently located. We may be unable to find space at a suitable drydocking facility or our vessels may be forced to travel to a drydocking facility that is not conveniently located to our vessels' positions. The loss of earnings while these vessels are forced to wait for space or travel to more distant drydocking facilities would decrease our earnings. The operation of drybulk carriers involves certain unique operational risks. The operation of drybulk carriers has certain unique operational risks. With a drybulk carrier, the cargo itself and its interaction with the ship can be a risk factor. By their nature, drybulk cargoes are often heavy, dense, easily shifted, and react badly to water exposure. In addition, drybulk carriers are often subjected to battering treatment during unloading operations with grabs, jackhammers (to pry encrusted cargoes out of the hold), and small bulldozers. This treatment may cause damage to the drybulk carrier. Drybulk carriers damaged due to treatment during unloading procedures may be more susceptible to a breach to the sea. Hull breaches in drybulk carriers may lead to the flooding of their holds. If a drybulk carrier suffers flooding in its forward holds, the bulk cargo may become so dense and waterlogged that its pressure may buckle the drybulk carrier's bulkheads leading to the loss of the drybulk carrier. If we are unable to adequately maintain or safeguard our vessels we may be unable to prevent these events. Any of these circumstances or events could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends if reinstated in the future. In addition, the loss of any of our vessels could harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. Purchasing and operating secondhand vessels may result in increased operating costs and vessel off-hire, which could adversely affect our earnings. Our inspection of secondhand vessels prior to purchase does not provide us with the same knowledge about their condition and cost of any required or anticipated repairs that we would have had if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. We will not receive the benefit of warranties on secondhand vessels. Typically, the costs to maintain a vessel in good operating condition increase with the age of the vessel. Older vessels are typically less fuel efficient and more costly to maintain than more recently constructed vessels. Cargo insurance rates increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may require expenditures for alterations, or the addition of new equipment, to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which the vessels may engage. As our vessels age, market conditions may not justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. We inspected all of our second hand vessels, which we acquired from both related and unrelated third parties, considered the age and condition of the vessels in budgeting for their operating, insurance and maintenance costs, and if we acquire additional secondhand vessels in the future, we may encounter higher operating and maintenance costs due to the age and condition of those additional vessels. 19 We may not have adequate insurance to compensate us for the loss of a vessel, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. We have procured hull and machinery insurance, protection and indemnity insurance, which includes environmental damage and pollution insurance coverage and war risk insurance for our fleet. We do not maintain, for our vessels, insurance against loss of hire, which covers business interruptions that result from the loss of use of a vessel. We may not be adequately insured against all risks. We may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for our fleet in the future. The insurers may not pay particular claims. Our insurance policies may contain deductibles for which we will be responsible and limitations and exclusions which may increase our costs or lower our revenue. Moreover, insurers may default on claims they are required to pay. If our insurance is not enough to cover claims that may arise, the deficiency may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to calls because we obtain some of our insurance through protection and indemnity associations. We may be subject to increased premium payments, or calls, in amounts based on our claim records and the claim records of our fleet managers as well as the claim records of other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive insurance coverage for tort liability, including pollution-related liability. In addition, our protection and indemnity associations may not have enough resources to cover claims made against them. Our payment of these calls could result in significant expense to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Because we generate all of our revenues in dollars but incur a significant portion of our expenses in other currencies, exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We generate all of our revenues in dollars but we incur a portion of our expenses in currencies other than the dollar. This difference could lead to fluctuations in net income due to changes in the value of the dollar relative to the other currencies, in particular the Euro. Expenses incurred in foreign currencies against which the dollar falls in value can increase, decreasing our revenues. Further declines in the value of the dollar could lead to higher expenses payable by us. We are a holding company, and depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial obligations or to make dividend payments. We are a holding company, and our subsidiaries, which are all directly and wholly owned by us, , conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. As a result, our ability to satisfy our financial obligations and to pay dividends to our shareholders depends on the ability of our subsidiaries to generate profits available for distribution to us and, to the extent that they are unable to generate profits, we may be unable to pay dividends to our shareholders. We are incorporated in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law, which may negatively affect the ability of public shareholders to protect their interests. We are incorporated under the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and bylaws and by the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act, or BCA. The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Republic of the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the law of the Republic of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain United States jurisdictions. Shareholder rights may differ as well. While the BCA does specifically incorporate the non-statutory law, or judicial case law, of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction. 20 All of our assets are located outside of the United States. Our business is operated primarily from our offices in Athens, Greece. In addition, our directors and officers are non-residents of the United States, and all or a substantial portion of the assets of these non-residents are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the United States if you believe that your rights have been infringed under securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Marshall Islands and of other jurisdictions may prevent or restrict you from enforcing a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. Although you may bring an original action against us, our officers and directors in the courts of the Marshall Islands based on U.S. laws, and the courts of the Marshall Islands may impose civil liability, including monetary damages, against us, our officers or directors for a cause of action arising under Marshall Islands law, it may be impracticable for you to do so given the geographic location of the Marshall Islands. There is a risk that we could be treated as a U.S. domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes after the merger of Star Maritime with and into Star Bulk, with Star Bulk as the surviving corporation, or the Redomiciliation Merger, which would adversely affect our earnings. Section 7874(b) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the "Code", provides that, unless certain requirements are satisfied, a corporation organized outside of the United States which acquires substantially all of the assets (through a plan or a series of related transactions) of a corporation organized in the United States will be treated as a U.S. domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes if shareholders of the U.S. corporation whose assets are being acquired own at least 80% of the non-U.S. acquiring corporation after the acquisition. If Section 7874(b) of the Code were to apply to Star Maritime and the Redomiciliation Merger, then, among other consequences, the Company, as the surviving entity of the Redomiciliation Merger, would be subject to U.S. federal income tax as a U.S. domestic corporation on its worldwide income after the Redomiciliation Merger. Upon completion of the Redomiciliation Merger and the concurrent issuance of stock to TMT Co. Ltd., or "TMT", a shipping company headquartered in Taiwan, under the acquisition agreements, the shareholders of Star Maritime owned less than 80% of the Company. Therefore, the Company believes that it should not be subject to Section 7874(b) of the Code after the Redomiciliation Merger. Star Maritime obtained an opinion of its counsel, Seward & Kissel LLP, or "Seward & Kissel", that Section 7874(b) of the Code should not apply to the Redomiciliation Merger. However, there is no authority directly addressing the application of Section 7874(b) of the Code to a transaction such as the Redomiciliation Merger where shares in a foreign corporation such as the Company are issued concurrently with (or shortly after) a merger. In particular, since there is no authority directly applying the "series of related transactions" or "plan" provisions to the post-acquisition stock ownership requirements of Section 7874(b) of the Code, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or the "IRS", may not agree with Seward & Kissel's opinion on this matter. Moreover, Star Maritime has not sought a ruling from the IRS on this point. Therefore, the IRS may seek to assert that we are subject to U.S. federal income tax on our worldwide income for taxable years after the Redomiciliation Merger, although Seward & Kissel is of the opinion that such an assertion should not be successful. We may have to pay tax on U.S. source income, which would reduce our earnings. Under the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel owning or chartering corporation, such as the Company and its subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States is characterized as U.S. source shipping income and such income is subject to a 4% U.S. federal income tax without allowance for deduction, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder by the U.S. Department of the Treasury. We expect that we will qualify for this statutory tax exemption and we have taken this position for U.S. federal income tax return reporting purposes for 2010 and we intend to take this position for 2011. However, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us to lose the benefit of this tax exemption and thereby become subject to U.S. federal income tax on our U.S. source shipping income. For instance, we would no longer qualify for exemption under Section 883 of the Code for a particular taxable year if shareholders with a 5% or greater interest in our common stock owned, in the aggregate, 50% or more of our outstanding common stock for more than half the days during the taxable year. Due to the factual nature of the issues involved, we can give no assurances with regard to our tax-exempt status or that of any of our subsidiaries. 21 If we are not entitled to the exemption under Section 883 of the Code for any taxable year, we would be subject during those years to a 4% U.S. federal income tax on our U.S. source shipping income. The imposition of this tax would have a negative effect on our business and would result in decreased earnings. The preferential tax rates applicable to "qualified dividend income" are temporary, and the enactment of proposed legislation could affect whether dividends paid by us constitute "qualified dividend income" eligible for the preferential tax rates. Certain of our distributions may be treated as "qualified dividend income" eligible for preferential rates of U.S. federal income tax to U.S. taxpayers. In the absence of legislation extending the term for these preferential tax rates, all dividends received by such U.S. taxpayers in tax years beginning on January 1, 2013 or later will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at the graduated tax rates applicable to ordinary income. In addition, legislation has been proposed in the U.S. Congress that would, if enacted, deny the preferential rates of U.S. federal income tax currently imposed on "qualified dividend income" with respect to dividends received from a non-U.S. corporation if the non-U.S. corporation is created or organized under the laws of a jurisdiction that does not have a comprehensive income tax system. Because the Marshall Islands imposes only limited taxes on entities organized under its laws, it is likely that if this legislation were enacted, the preferential tax rates of U.S. federal income tax may no longer be applicable to distributions received from us. As of the date hereof, it is not possible to predict with certainty whether this proposed legislation will be enacted. U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a "passive foreign investment company," which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders. We will be treated as a "passive foreign investment company," or "PFIC", for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of our gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of "passive income" or (2) at least 50% of the average value of our assets produce, or are held for the production of, those types of "passive income," to which the Company refers to as "passive assets." For purposes of these tests, "passive income" includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property, and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute "passive income." U.S. shareholders of a PFIC may be subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. Based on our method of operation, we take the position for U.S. federal income tax purposes that we have not been, and are not currently, a PFIC with respect to any taxable year. In this regard, we intend to treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we take the position that our income from our time chartering activities does not constitute "passive income," and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute "passive assets." There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our method of operation. In addition, we have not received an opinion of counsel with respect to this issue. We believe there is substantial legal authority supporting our position consisting of case law and IRS pronouncements concerning the characterization of income derived from these time charters as services income for other tax purposes. However, we note that there is also authority which characterizes time charter income as rental income rather than services income for other tax purposes. Accordingly, there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law may not accept our position, and treat us as a PFIC. Moreover, we may constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in the nature and extent of our operations. 22 If the IRS or a court were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our U.S. shareholders may face adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, unless such U.S. shareholders make an election available under the Code (which election could itself have adverse consequences), such U.S. shareholders would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at the then highest income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our common stock, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the U.S. shareholder's holding period of our common stock. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock There may be no continuing public market for you to resell our common stock. Our common shares commenced trading on the Nasdaq Global Select Market in December 2007. There may be no continuing active or liquid public market for our common shares. The price of our common stock may be volatile and may fluctuate due to factors such as: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results and those of other public companies in our industry; · mergers and strategic alliances in the drybulk shipping industry; · market conditions in the drybulk shipping industry and the general state of the securities markets; · changes in government regulation; · shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecast by securities analysts; and · announcements concerning us or our competitors. You may not be able to sell your shares of our common stock in the future at the price that you paid for them or at all. In addition, if the price of our common stock falls below $1.00, we may be involuntarily delisted from the Nasdaq Global Select Market. Certain stockholders hold registration rights, which may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Initial stockholders of Star Maritime who purchased common stock and units in private transactions prior to Star Maritime's initial public offering have certain registration rights which require us, under certain circumstances, to register the resale of their shares. Pursuant to those registration rights, we have included in a universal shelf registration statement (File No. 333-156843), which was declared effective by the Commission on February 17, 2009, for the resale registration of 14,305,599 shares of common stock. The resale of these common shares in addition to the registration of other securities included in such registration statement, may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Future sales of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, may depress the market price for our common stock. These sales could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our equity securities in the future. As noted above, we have filed a universal shelf registration statement pursuant to which we may offer and sell different types of securities and that includes the resale registration of an aggregate of 11,981,766 common shares. We may issue additional shares of our common stock, warrants or other equity securities or securities convertible into our equity securities in the future and our stockholders may elect to sell large numbers of shares held by them from time to time. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation authorize us to issue 300,000,000 common shares with par value $0.01 per share. As of December 31, 2010 and March 21, 2011, we had 63,410,360 shares outstanding. All of our warrants expired worthless and ceased trading on the Nasdaq Global Select Market on March 15, 2010. 23 Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents could make it difficult for our stockholders to replace or remove our current board of directors or have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Several provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws could make it difficult for our stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors in any one year, preventing them from changing the composition of management. In addition, the same provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable. These provisions include: · authorizing our board of directors to issue "blank check" preferred stock without stockholder approval; · providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three year terms; · prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; and · authorizing the board to call a special meeting at any time. The market price of our common shares has fluctuated widely and may fluctuate widely in the future. The market price of our common shares has fluctuated widely since our common shares began trading in the Nasdaq Global Select Market in December 2007, and may continue to do so as a result of many factors such as actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results and those of other public companies in our industry, mergers and strategic alliances in the shipping industry, market conditions in the shipping industry, changes in government regulation, shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecast by securities analysts, announcements concerning us or our competitors and the general state of the securities market. The market price of our common shares has dropped below $5.00 per share, and the last reported sale price on the Nasdaq Global Select Market on March 29, 2011 was $2.43 per share. If the market price of our common shares remains below $5.00 per share, under stock exchange rules, our shareholders will not be able to use such shares as collateral for borrowing in margin accounts. This inability to continue to use our common shares as collateral may lead to sales of such shares creating downward pressure on and increased volatility in the market price of our common shares. The shipping industry has been highly unpredictable and volatile. The market for common shares in this industry may be equally volatile. Therefore, we cannot assure you that you will be able to sell any of our common shares you may have purchased at a price greater than or equal to its original purchase price. 