Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry The recent global recession may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The U.S. and other global economies have recently experienced a recession that has affected all sectors of the economy, resulting in declines in economic growth and consumer confidence, increases in unemployment rates and uncertainty about economic stability. Global credit and financial markets have also experiencing disruptions, including diminished liquidity and credit availability and rapid fluctuations in market valuations. Our business has been affected by these conditions and is likely to be affected by them in the future, and there is no certainty that recent improvements in economic conditions will continue, or that economic conditions will not deteriorate further. These uncertainties affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways, making it difficult to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. Weak economic conditions may lead consumers and businesses to continue to postpone spending, which may cause our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their existing and future orders with us. In addition, the inability of customers to obtain credit could negatively affect our revenues and our ability to collect receivables. In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers or distributors could result in product delays, increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory challenges. If the uncertain economic conditions continue or further deteriorate, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, as a result of, among other things: • reduced demand for our products, particularly in industries such as the automotive industry that have been severely affected by the global recession; • increased risk of order cancellations or delays; • increased pressure on the prices for our products, such as we have already experienced in the handset market in China; 8 Table of Contents • greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; and • risks to our liquidity, including the possibility that we might not have access to our cash and investments when needed. We are unable to predict the prospects for recovery from the recent global downturn and disruption in credit and financial markets, but the longer the duration of these uncertainties, the greater the risks we face in operating our business. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. We commenced operations in 1999, began to generate revenue in 2001, and first became profitable in 2004. Our limited operating history may not provide a meaningful basis for evaluating our business and prospects. Our net sales and net income grew significantly from 2001 to 2009. Our net sales were $28.4 million in 2009 and $20.1 million in 2008. Our net income (loss) was $24,000 in 2009 and ($1.7) million in 2008. We cannot accurately predict the duration or severity of the current adverse economic conditions or their impact on our customers’ demand for our products, and as a result, it is difficult for us at this time to reliably forecast our longer-term revenues or results of operations. Accordingly, you should not rely on the results of any prior periods as indicative of our future revenue or net income growth or financial results. You should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks and uncertainties experienced by entrepreneurial companies seeking to develop products in a rapidly-changing market. Some of these risks and uncertainties relate to our ability to: • maintain our sales growth and profit margin; • preserve our position in the MEMS sensor market; • manage our expanding operations and product offerings; • expand manufacturing capacity in time to meet surges in market demand; • manage our relationships with our service providers and suppliers, including our ability to obtain manufacturing capacity from semiconductor foundries during surges in market demand; • develop and deliver new products successfully; and • successfully integrate any future acquisitions. If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of these risks and uncertainties, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate and are difficult to predict and if we do not meet financial expectations of securities analysts or investors, the price of our common stock will likely decline. Our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. For example, while we recorded net income of $24,000, or $0.00 per diluted share, for 2009, we expect to incur a loss in the range of ($0.11) to ($0.13) per share in the first quarter of 2010, due in part to transaction costs related to our Crossbow acquisition and the addition of related engineering and sales staff. Our quarterly and annual net sales and profit margin may be significantly different from our historical amounts, and in future periods may fall below expectations. In particular, our gross margins declined significantly in 2009, and could continue to decline. These and other risks described in this “Risk Factors” section, including the following factors, could cause our quarterly and annual operating results to fluctuate from period to period: • the loss of one or more of our key customers; 9 Table of Contents • the cancellation or deferral of customer orders in anticipation of our new products or product enhancements, or due to a reduction in our customers’ end demand; • changes in the price we charge for our products or our pricing strategies, which may be impacted by economic conditions or the pricing strategies of our competitors; • the cyclicality of the semiconductor industry and seasonality in sales of products into which our products are incorporated; • seasonal fluctuations of some of our product application markets as well as geographical markets; and • the length of the product development cycle for our new products. In addition, we plan our operating expenses, including research and development expenses, hiring of additional personnel and investments in inventory, in part on our expectations of future revenue, and our expenses are relatively fixed in the short term. We have recently implemented cost reduction measures to reduce our operating expenses. However, if revenue for a particular quarter is lower than we expect, we may be unable to proportionately reduce our operating expenses for that quarter, which would harm our operating results for that quarter. If our operating results in future quarters fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock will likely decline. The average selling prices of products in our markets have historically decreased rapidly and will likely do so in the future, which could harm our revenue and gross margins. In the semiconductor industry, the average selling price of a product typically declines significantly over the life of the product. In the past, we have reduced the average selling prices of our products in anticipation of future competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us or our competitors and other factors. We expect that we will have to similarly reduce our products’ average selling prices over the life of any particular product in the future. Reductions in our average selling prices to one customer could also impact our average selling prices to other customers. A decline in average selling prices can harm our gross margins. For example, our gross margins have declined from 47.9% in 2008 to 45.6% in 2009, primarily as a result of decreasing unit prices in response to competitive pressures in the mobile handset market. Our financial results will suffer if we are unable to offset reductions in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volumes, reducing our costs, adding new features to our existing products or developing new or enhanced products on a timely basis with higher selling prices or gross margins. Acquisitions or investments that we make to expand our business may expose us to new risks and we may not realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions or investments. As part of our growth strategy, we will continue to evaluate opportunities to acquire or invest in other businesses, intellectual property or technologies that would complement our current offerings, expand the breadth of markets we can address or enhance our technical capabilities. Acquisitions or investments that we may potentially make in the future entail a number of risks that could materially and adversely affect our business, operating and financial results, including: • problems integrating the acquired operations, technologies or products into our existing business and products; • diversion of management’s time and attention from our core business; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with customers; • need for financial resources above our planned investment levels; • failures in realizing anticipated synergies; • difficulties in retaining business relationships with suppliers and customers of the acquired company; 10 Table of Contents • risks associated with entering markets in which we lack experience; • potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; • potential write-offs of acquired assets; and • potential expenses related to the amortization of intangible assets. Our failure to address these risks may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any such acquisition or investment may require a significant amount of capital investment, which would decrease the amount of cash available for working capital or capital expenditures. In addition, if we issue new equity securities to pay for acquisitions, our stockholders may experience dilution. If we borrow funds to finance acquisitions, such debt instruments may contain restrictive covenants that can, among other things, restrict us from distributing dividends. Our recent Crossbow acquisition in particular exposes us to new risks that we have not previously faced. The product lines we acquired from Crossbow are more highly integrated than our existing products, involve different technologies, more complex manufacturing, assembly and test processes and require more technical support than those required by our current product lines. The sales process and customer base for the Crossbow products also differs substantially from those of our current products. Our manufacture and sale of the inertial navigation systems for use in general aviation that we acquired from Crossbow are subject to extensive regulatory requirements, including requirements that we obtain and maintain certifications from the United States Federal Aviation Administration, or FAA. Malfunctions in these inertial navigation systems could expose users to the risk of injury or death, and a product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time consuming and costly to defend. We have no previous experience in designing, manufacturing, selling and supporting products of this type, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in these endeavors. We are substantially reliant for the operation of this business on former Crossbow management, engineering, sales and marketing personnel who have become our employees. Until we are able to transition to our own manufacturing processes in China, a process that we anticipate will take at least 12 to 18 months, we will be dependent on Crossbow to manufacture these products for us under a contract we entered into with Crossbow as part of the acquisition. If we are unable to obtain necessary FAA certification of our manufacturing facility and processes in China, or experience other unforeseen difficulties in transitioning the manufacture of the acquired products to our own facility in China, we may be unable to achieve the product cost improvements that we anticipate for these acquired businesses. The integration of the lines of business, technologies, personnel and operations we acquired from Crossbow could result in significant diversion of our management’s attention and could also require the incurrence of substantial costs, which could adversely affect our profitability in the near term. Our failure to effectively address these risks, or to successfully integrate the businesses we acquired from Crossbow, or other businesses we may acquire, could have a material adverse effect on our business, our reputation and our results of operations. We may not be able to compete effectively and increase or maintain revenue and market share. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors. If we do not compete successfully, our market share and revenue may decline. We and our distributors currently sell substantially all of our accelerometer products to original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, and original design manufacturers, or ODMs. We face competition primarily from traditional capacitive/piezoresistive-based accelerometer manufacturers, and, more recently, from manufacturers of low cost components such as mechanical switches that can be used as alternatives to our accelerometers in certain applications, such as orientation detection for mobile phones. Our Crossbow acquisition will expose us to competition from additional sources that we currently do not experience. Most of our current competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater resources, brand recognition and a larger base of customers than we do. In addition, these competitors may have greater credibility with our existing or potential customers. Moreover, many of our competitors have been doing business with customers for a longer period of time and have established relationships, which may provide them 11 Table of Contents with information regarding future market trends and requirements that may not be available to us. Additionally, some of our larger competitors may be able to provide greater incentives to customers through rebates and similar programs. Some of our competitors with multiple product lines may bundle their products to offer a broader product portfolio or integrate accelerometer functionality into other products that we do not sell. These factors may make it difficult for us to gain or maintain market share. Our ability to grow depends on our ability to secure and maintain relationships with OEM and ODM customers. If we cannot continue to achieve design wins, if our design wins do not result in large volume orders, or if we fail to meet an OEM’s development and service demands, our ability to grow will be limited. Our ability to grow depends on our ability to continue to achieve design wins with OEMs and ODMs to whom we sell either directly or through our distributors. In order to achieve a design win, where our product is incorporated into an OEM’s or ODM’s product design, we may often need to make modifications to our products or develop new products that involve significant technological challenges. We may also incur significant product development costs by participating in lengthy field trials and extensive qualification programs. We cannot assure you that these efforts would result in a design win. Furthermore, a design win is not a binding commitment to purchase our products and may not result in large volume orders of our products. Rather, it is a decision by an OEM or ODM to use our products in the design process of that OEM’s or ODM’s products. OEMs and ODMs can choose at any time to stop using our products in their designs or product development efforts. Moreover, even if our products were chosen to be incorporated into an OEM’s or ODM’s products, our ability to generate significant revenues from that OEM or ODM will depend on the commercial success of their products. Thus, a design win may not necessarily generate significant revenues if our customers’ products are not commercially successful. In addition, OEMs and ODMs place considerable pressure on us to meet their tight development schedules. These customers also often require extensive and localized customer support. As a result, we may be required to significantly expand our customer support organization. Devoting a substantial amount of our limited resources to one or more of these customer relationships could result in opportunity costs which detract or delay us from completing other important product development projects for our other existing customers, which could in turn impair our relationships with existing customers and negatively impact sales of the products under development. We do not have long-term purchase commitments from our customers, including OEMs and ODMs, and our ability to accurately forecast demand for and sales of our products is limited, which may result in excess or insufficient inventory and significant uncertainty and volatility with respect to our revenue from period to period. We do not have long-term purchase commitments from our customers, including OEMs and ODMs. Our customers may cancel or reschedule purchase orders. Our customers’ purchase orders may vary significantly from period to period, and it is difficult to forecast future order quantities. The lead time required by our foundry providers for wafer production is typically longer than the lead time that our customers provide to us for delivery of our products to them. Therefore, to ensure availability of our products for our customers, we typically ask our foundry providers to start wafer production based on forecasts provided by our customers in advance of receiving purchase orders. However, these forecasts are not binding purchase commitments, and we do not recognize revenue until our products are shipped to customers. Accordingly, we incur inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated sales. We cannot assure you that any of our customers will continue to place purchase orders with us in the future at the same level as in prior periods or that the volume of our customers’ purchase orders will be consistent with our expectations when we plan our expenditures in advance of receiving purchase orders. Our anticipated demand for our products may not materialize. In addition, manufacturing based on customer forecasts exposes us to risks of high inventory carrying costs and increased product obsolescence, which may increase our costs. If we overestimate demand for our products, or if purchase orders are cancelled or shipments are delayed, we may be left with excess inventory that we cannot sell. Conversely, if we underestimate 12 Table of Contents demand, we may not have sufficient inventory and may lose market share and damage our customer relationships. Obtaining additional supply in the face of product shortages may be costly or impossible, particularly in the short term, which could prevent us from fulfilling orders. As a result, our results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period in the future. The length of our sales cycle is unpredictable, which makes it difficult for us to forecast revenue and may increase the volatility of our operating results. We have a lengthy sales cycle that typically begins with our receipt of an initial request from a customer and ends when our customer executes a purchase order for production quantities. We typically need to obtain a design win to receive purchase orders. In some cases, due to the rapid growth of new product applications and technologies, this process can be time-consuming and requires substantial investment of our time and resources. In addition, our OEM and ODM customers may require significant time to test, evaluate and design our products into their products. Following a design win, OEMs and ODMs may need several months to begin large-volume production of the products that incorporate our products. Many factors beyond our control could affect the length of the sales cycle of our products. The uncertainties on the sales cycle length makes it difficult for us to forecast our revenue and may increase the volatility of our operating results. We depend and expect to continue to depend on a limited number of customers for a high percentage of our revenues. As a result, the loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, any of these customers would significantly reduce our revenues and harm our results of operations. For 2009, five customers each accounted for 10% or more of our net sales, consisting of four distributors with a total of 51.9% and an OEM, Autoliv, as to 23.6%. For 2008, five customers accounted for 10% or more of our net sales, consisting of four distributors with a total of 57.8% and Autoliv as to 21.0%. If a large distributor or other customer purchases fewer of our products, defers orders or fails to place additional orders with us, our revenue could decline, and our operating results may not meet market expectations. In addition, we face credit risks on some of our significant customers that are smaller companies. If those customers order our products, but fail to pay on time or at all, our liquidity and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Our success depends upon our customers’ ability to successfully sell their products. The success of our products depends, in significant part, on the success of our customers’ products that incorporate our products. Most of our net sales in 2009 and 2008 were attributable to accelerometer products that were incorporated into products such as mobile phones, projectors and automobile parts. If any of our customers are unsuccessful in their sales, whether due to lack of market acceptance of their products, general industry slowdown, changes in the product supply chain or otherwise, our sales could be adversely affected. We are not certain whether these customers will be able to achieve success in their business or whether they will remain competitive in their business even if initially successful. We rely on a small number of third-party foundries to manufacture wafers, which are significant components in our manufacturing process. If we are unable to secure sufficient supply of wafers, or if the wafers supplied to us do not meet our quality standards, we may be unable to ship finished products and our customer relationships may be damaged. We currently rely on one foundry service provider to manufacture wafers used in our accelerometer products and two foundry service providers to supply wafers used for magnetic sensors. Because we outsource our wafer production, which is a critical part of our manufacturing process, we face several significant risks, including: • lack of manufacturing capacity at these foundries; 13 Table of Contents • limited control over delivery schedules, quality assurance and control, manufacturing yields and production costs; and • the unavailability of, or potential delays in obtaining access to, key process technologies. The ability of these foundries to provide us with wafers is limited by their available capacity. We do not have a guaranteed level of production capacity with our principal foundry and it is difficult to accurately forecast our capacity needs. Furthermore, we do not have a long-term agreement with this foundry and we place our orders on a purchase order basis. As a result, if it raises its prices or is not able to meet our required capacity for any reason, including shortages or delays in shipment of semiconductor equipment or materials it uses to manufacture our wafers, or if our business relationship with our principal foundry deteriorates, we may not be able to obtain the required capacity from it and would have to seek alternative foundries, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Using foundries with which we have no established relationships could expose us to potentially unfavorable pricing, unsatisfactory quality or insufficient capacity allocation. Furthermore, our principal foundry can allocate capacity to the production of other companies’ products and reduce deliveries to us on short notice. Many of its customers are larger than we are and may have long-term agreements with the foundry and may receive preferential treatment from it in terms of capacity allocation. Reallocation of capacity by the foundry to its other customers could impair our ability to secure the supply of wafers that we need, which could significantly delay our ability to ship our products, causing a loss of revenue and damage to our customer relationships. In addition, if we underestimate our needs for foundry capacity, our foundry may not have available capacity to meet our immediate needs or we may be required to pay higher costs to fulfill those needs, either of which could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Our key foundry service provider maintains facilities that are located in a region that is subject to earthquakes, typhoons and other natural disasters, as well as geopolitical risks and social upheaval. Currently, all of the wafers used in our accelerometers are manufactured by a foundry in Taiwan. Taiwan is susceptible to earthquakes, typhoons, flood and other natural disasters, and has experienced severe earthquakes and typhoons in recent years that caused significant property damage and loss of life. In addition, this foundry is subject to risks associated with uncertain political, economic and other conditions in Taiwan and elsewhere in Asia, such as political turmoil in the region and the outbreak of contagious diseases, such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, or any other epidemic such as avian flu. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could disrupt the foundry’s operations, resulting in significant disruption or delays in deliveries of raw materials for our operations. As a result, our business operations could be significantly disrupted and deliveries of our products could be delayed. Our products are complex and defects in our products could result in a loss of customers, damage to our reputation, decreased revenue, unexpected expenses, loss of market share and warranty and product liability claims. Our products are complex and must meet our customers’ stringent quality requirements. Such complex products may contain undetected errors or defects, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. For example, our products may contain errors that are not detected until after they are shipped because we cannot test for all possible scenarios. Errors or defects can arise due to design flaws, defects in materials or components or as a result of manufacturing difficulties, which can affect both the quality and yield of the product. As our products become more complex, we face significantly higher risk of undetected defects. Any errors or defects in our products, or the perception that there may be errors or defects in our products, could result in customer rejection of our products, damage to our reputation, lost revenue, diversion of development resources and increases in customer service and support costs and warranty claims. 14 Table of Contents Failure of suppliers to deliver on a timely basis sufficient quantities of components or materials or licensed software used in our products may result in delays or other disruptions in introducing or shipping our products, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Some of the components, materials and software used in our products are purchased or licensed from a limited number of suppliers and it is difficult for us to redesign our products to incorporate components, materials or software from alternative suppliers. For example, we obtain the ceramic packaging materials that we use on our accelerometer products from only two suppliers. In addition, we purchase rights to media content developed for our accelerometer products sold to our mobile phone end-customers. If any of our suppliers terminates its relationship with us, or is unable to deliver components, materials or software in accordance with our requirements, we may not be able to find alternative sources on favorable terms on short notice. Our inability to find or develop alternative sources of components, materials and software, if and as required, could result in delays or other disruptions in introducing or shipping our products. If any of these events occur, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Our success depends on the continuing efforts of our senior management team and other key personnel and on our ability to successfully attract, train and retain additional key personnel. Our future success depends heavily upon the continuing services of the members of our senior management team and various engineering and other technical personnel. In particular, our founder, Chief Executive Officer and director, Dr. Yang Zhao, was and remains central to the development and advancement of the thermal MEMS technology on which our accelerometer products have been designed and developed. In addition, our engineers and other technical personnel are critical to our future technological and product innovations. We have experienced significant turnover among our senior executive personnel since our initial public offering, including our termination in January 2009 of our Vice President of Engineering and the resignations of our Vice President of Marketing and Business Development in December 2008, of our Chief Financial Officer in June 2008 and of our Vice President and General Manager in January 2008. If Dr. Zhao or any of our two other executive officers were to resign or otherwise leave our employment, we might not be able to replace them easily or at all, and our business could be disrupted and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if any member of our senior management team or any of our other key personnel joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose customers, distributors, know-how and key professionals and staff members. Although we maintain a “key person” life insurance policy on Dr. Zhao, we do not maintain such insurance for any of our other employees. We may incur increased operating expenses and be required to divert the attention of other senior executives to recruit replacement for key personnel. Our industry is characterized by high demand and intense competition for talent and the pool of qualified candidates is very limited. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain existing, or attract and retain new, qualified personnel, including senior executives and skilled engineers, whom we will need to achieve our strategic objectives. In addition, our ability to train and integrate new employees into our operations may not meet the growing demands of our business. The loss of any of our key personnel or our inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, including engineers and others, could delay the development and introduction of, and would have an adverse effect on our ability to sell, our products as well as our overall business and growth prospects. If we are unable to effectively manage changes in our rate of growth and address related financial, operational and systems requirements, our business and operating results could be harmed. Our future growth and expansion require that we expand our operational, engineering and financial systems, procedures and controls and to improve our information technology, accounting and other internal management systems. However, as a result of the recent global economic recession, we encountered a period of low growth from 2007 to 2009 in which we were required to carefully control our costs and expenses in order to minimize the impact of lower revenues on our results of operations. To the extent that such measures may have impaired or delayed our new product development activities, they could adversely affect our competitiveness. Additionally, 15 Table of Contents these expense control measures could adversely affect our ability to continue to make necessary improvements to our operational, financial and management information systems. We have recently experienced significant turnover among our senior executive personnel. Our expense reduction measures also included headcount reductions, particularly in our sales and marketing and general and administrative staffs. These changes have to some extent contributed, and may in the future contribute, to the challenge of effectively managing our changing operations. If we are unable to manage our changing rate of growth effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, execute our business plan or respond to competitive pressures. To successfully manage our business in this rapidly changing environment, we believe we must effectively: • hire, train, integrate and manage additional qualified engineers, senior managers, sales and marketing personnel and information technology personnel; • implement additional, and improve existing, administrative and operational systems, procedures and controls; • expand our finance and accounting team, which includes hiring additional personnel with U.S. GAAP and internal control expertise; • continue to expand and upgrade our design and product development capabilities; and • manage our relationships with semiconductor manufacturing service providers, customers, suppliers and other third parties. Moreover, if our allocation of resources does not correspond with future demand for particular products, we could miss market opportunities, and our business and financial results could be materially and adversely affected. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage our growth effectively in the future. Assertions by third parties of infringement by us of their intellectual property rights could disrupt our business, result in significant costs and cause our operating results to suffer. The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights, which has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation for many companies. We may receive claims from various industry participants alleging infringement of patents, trade secrets and/or other intellectual property rights in the future. Any lawsuit or administrative proceedings resulting from such allegations could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidate our existing intellectual property rights. These lawsuits, regardless of their success, would likely be time-consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert management’s time and attention. Any potential intellectual property litigation or administrative proceedings also could force us to do one or more of the following: • stop selling products that have used technology or manufacturing processes containing the allegedly infringing intellectual property; • pay damages to the party claiming infringement; • attempt to obtain a license for the relevant intellectual property, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all; and • attempt to redesign those products that contain the allegedly infringing intellectual property with non-infringing intellectual property, which may not be possible. The outcome of a dispute may result in our need to develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. We have agreed to defend certain of our distributors against any claims by third parties of infringement of intellectual property rights and to indemnify them for all costs and damages arising from such claims. Any intellectual property dispute could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. 16 Table of Contents We may not be able to prevent others from unauthorized use of our intellectual property, which could harm our business and competitive position. We design our accelerometer and non-accelerometer products in-house and rely on a combination of patents, trademarks and employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property. As of December 31, 2009, we owned fifteen patents and had eight pending patent applications in the United States, and owned sixteen patents and had twenty-one pending patent applications and assignment in China. As of that date, we also had two issued patents and six pending patent applications in Japan, five pending patent applications in Germany, two pending patent applications filed with the European Patent Office and five pending patent applications filed under the Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT). Policing any unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and costly and the steps we have taken may be inadequate to prevent the misappropriation of our technology. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our technologies could enable third parties to benefit from our technologies without paying us. In addition, others may independently develop similar proprietary information and techniques, gain access to our intellectual property rights, disclose such technology or design around our patents. Additionally, we cannot assure you that any patent or registered trademark owned by us will be enforceable or will not be invalidated, circumvented or otherwise challenged in the PRC, the United States or other countries or that the rights granted thereunder will provide competitive advantages to us or that any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued with the scope of the claims sought by us, if at all. Furthermore, litigation may be necessary to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, determine the validity of and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources which could harm our business, could ultimately be unsuccessful in protecting our intellectual property rights, and may result in our intellectual property rights being held invalid or unenforceable. Moreover, foreign intellectual property laws may not protect our intellectual property rights. Enforcement of PRC intellectual property-related laws has historically been ineffective, primarily because of ambiguities in PRC laws and difficulties in enforcement. Accordingly, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Our failure to protect our intellectual property effectively could harm our business, prospects and reputation. Some of our key technologies and know-how are licensed from third parties, including a competing company, and the termination of any of the licenses will materially and adversely affect our business. Our business relies on our ability to use, develop and otherwise exploit our accelerometer-related technologies and know-how. Some of our key technologies and know-how were acquired by us from Analog Devices through licensing arrangements as part of its investment in our company in 1999. All these licensing arrangements may be terminated upon the occurrence of certain events. In particular, • Analog Devices assigned to us its license from Canada’s Simon Fraser University, or SFU, on our core thermal accelerometer technology. SFU is entitled to terminate our license upon the occurrence of one of a number of events, including our failure to timely provide financial records. In addition, the license is terminated automatically upon the occurrence of insolvency, bankruptcy or other similar events. • Analog Devices granted us an exclusive, perpetual license to its thermal accelerometer technology rights to use, make, have made, import, offer to sell, sell, develop, modify, reproduce and distribute thermal accelerometer products and agreed not to use such technology rights to make or sell thermal accelerometer products itself. Analog Devices is entitled to terminate this license if our company is dissolved or liquidated or if we breach a material provision of the license agreement. • Analog Devices granted us a non-exclusive license to certain of its testing, wafer sawing and wafer level capping and chip-level packaging technology rights to use, make, have made, import, offer to sell, sell, develop, modify, reproduce and distribute thermal accelerometer products. Analog Devices may terminate this license if our company is dissolved or liquidated or if we breach a material provision of the license agreement. 17 Table of Contents Under our license with SFU, SFU is entitled to continue to use the licensed technology existing at the time of the license agreement, which was entered into in March 1999, as well as any related technology it develops thereafter without our support. Although we understand that SFU has not developed commercialized products based on its patented accelerometer technology to date, we cannot assure you that it will not do so in the future. If SFU seeks to develop commercialized products based on the accelerometer technology, it may deem us as a competitor and seek to terminate or limit the scope of our license, and as a result, our business, operations, financial condition and results of operation may be materially and adversely affected. Our company has a significant relationship with Analog Devices. Dr. Yang Zhao, our founder and CEO, was a key member of Analog Devices’ MEMS division for a number of years and we received our initial funding and technologies from Analog Devices. However, we also consider Analog Devices a significant competitor in our industry. If Analog Devices seeks to terminate, limit the scope of, or increase the fees of, any of our licenses granted or assigned by them, our business, operations, financial condition and results of operation may be materially and adversely affected. The loss of the services of our independent packaging service provider could disrupt our shipments, harm our customer relationships and reduce our sales. We outsource a portion of our product packaging process to a third-party packaging service provider. As a result, we do not completely control our product delivery schedules, packaging costs or quality assurance and control for products subject to third-party packaging process. Although we have developed the capacity to perform certain product packaging activities in-house, if our third party packaging service provider experiences capacity constraints or disruption or financial difficulties, raises its prices, suffers any damage to its facilities, or terminates its relationship with us, and we have insufficient capacity in-house, we may have to seek alternative packaging services which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Moreover, we may be exposed to risks associated with qualifying new service providers. Because it may take us an extended amount of time to qualify third-party packaging service providers, we could experience delays in product shipments if we are required to find alternative service providers for our products on short notice. Any problems that we may encounter with the delivery or quality of our products could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers. We may be unable to obtain in a timely manner and at a reasonable cost the equipment necessary for us to remain competitive when worldwide economic growth resumes. Our operations and expansion plans depend on our ability to obtain a significant amount of equipment from a limited number of suppliers and in a market that is characterized, from time to time, by intense demand, limited supply and long delivery cycles. During times of significant demand for this type of equipment, lead times for delivery can be significant. Shortages of equipment could result in an increase in their prices and longer delivery times. If we are unable to obtain equipment in a timely manner and at a reasonable cost, we may be unable to fulfill our customers’ orders, which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our expansion plans require substantial capital expenditures and are subject to a number of uncertainties, and our failure to complete these plans would have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve future growth. Our future success depends on our ability to significantly increase our manufacturing capacity and research and development capabilities. We have completed the first phase of construction of two new buildings adjacent to our current facility in Wuxi, China, comprising 20,800 square meters, consisting of 8,700 square meters for a new research and development institute and 12,100 square meters of new manufacturing facilities. Phase one included the structural construction of the two new buildings and furnishing and fitting out the research and development 18 Table of Contents office building. We started using the research and development office building in the fourth quarter of 2009. The total cost for this phase was $6.5 million. Phase two includes the furnishing and equipment of the manufacturing facility. At the beginning of 2010, we started phase two to furnish and equip a portion of our new manufacturing facility to meet our expected production requirements for both accelerometer products and non-accelerometer products in 2010. There are a number of events that could delay these expansion projects or increase the costs of building and equipping these or future facilities in accordance with our plans. These include: • failure to raise sufficient funds to build, and maintain adequate working capital to operate, new facilities; • failure to timely obtain environmental and other regulatory approvals, permits or licenses; • shortages and late delivery of building materials and manufacturing equipment; • seasonal factors, such as a long and intensive wet season that limits construction; and • technological, capacity or other changes to our plans for new facilities necessitated by changes in market conditions. If we are unable to establish or successfully operate additional manufacturing, we may be unable to expand our business as planned. If we are unable to carry out our planned expansions, we may not be able to meet customer demand, which could result in lower profitability and a loss in market share. Our product liability and business disruption insurance may not be sufficient. A significant portion of our sales derive from automotive safety applications which may expose us to significant product liability claims. The aviation navigation systems business we recently acquired from Crossbow also could expose us to significant product liability claims. We maintain business disruption insurance and general liability insurance which includes product liability coverage in amounts we believe to be appropriate for our operations. However, we cannot assure you that this amount is sufficient to cover all potential claims or losses and damages we may suffer. Any product liability or warranty claim, litigation, natural disaster or other forms of business disruption may result in our incurring substantial costs and in a diversion of resources. Compliance with environmental regulations can be expensive, and noncompliance with these regulations may result in adverse publicity, potentially significant monetary damages and fines and suspension of our business operations. Any failure by us to control the use of, or to restrict adequately the discharge of, hazardous substances could subject us to potentially significant monetary damages and fines or suspensions in our business operations. Our manufacturing processes generate noise, waste water, gases and other industrial wastes and we are required to comply with China’s national and local regulations regarding environmental protection. We believe we are currently in compliance with present environmental protection requirements and have all necessary environmental permits to conduct our business as it is presently conducted. However, if more stringent regulations are adopted in the future, the costs of compliance with these new regulations could be substantial. If we fail to comply with any future environmental regulations, we may be required to pay substantial fines, suspend production or cease operations. We may need additional capital, and the sale of additional common stock or other equity securities could result in dilution to you. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, anticipated cash flow from operations and the net proceeds from our recent initial offering will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the near future. However, we may require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future 19 Table of Contents developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If our resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities that may be convertible to equity securities. The sale of additional equity securities or debt securities that may be convertible to equity securities could result in dilution to you. Furthermore, the incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations or our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. We are likely to be adversely affected by the cyclicality of the semiconductor industry. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and is characterized by constant and rapid technological change, product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. The semiconductor industry has, from time to time, experienced significant downturns, often connected with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles of both semiconductor companies’ and their customers’ products, which may occur as of, or independently from, declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. The semiconductor industry is currently experiencing such a downturn. Prolongation or worsening of the current downturn, or the occurrence of any future downturn may reduce our revenues and result in us having excess inventory. Furthermore, any upturn in the semiconductor industry could result in increased competition for access to limited third-party foundry, assembly and testing capacity. Failure to gain access to foundry, assembly and testing capacity could impair our ability to secure the supply of products that we need, which could significantly delay our ability to ship our products, cause a loss of revenues and damage our customer relationships. The illiquidity of the auction rate securities we hold could adversely affect our financial condition, and if a further write-down of the value of these securities were to become necessary, it would adversely affect our results of operations As of December 31, 2009, our investments included $5.4 million (net of $247,000 impairment loss taken at December 31, 2008) of auction rate securities. Auction rate securities are generally long-term fixed income instruments that provide liquidity through a Dutch auction process that resets the applicable interest rate at pre-determined calendar intervals, typically every 7, 28, 35 or 49 days. Due to liquidity issues that have recently been experienced in global credit and capital markets, certain of the auction rate securities we hold have failed at auction, meaning that the amount of securities submitted for sale at auction exceeded the amount of purchase orders. If an auction fails, the issuer becomes obligated to pay interest at penalty rates, and all of the auction rate securities we hold continue to pay interest in accordance with their stated terms. However, the failed auctions create uncertainty as to the liquidity in the near term of these securities. As a result, we have classified the $5.4 million of auction rate securities we held at December 31, 2009 as long-term investments. Based on our expected operating cash flows and our other sources of cash, we do not expect the potential lack of liquidity in our auction rate securities classified as long-term investments to affect our ability to execute our current business plan in the foreseeable future. However, the principal represented by these investments will not be accessible to us until one of the following occurs: a successful auction occurs, the issuer redeems the issue, a buyer is found outside of the auction process or the underlying securities have matured. There can be no assurance that we would be able in the near term to liquidate these securities on favorable terms, or at all, and if we should require access to these funds sooner than we currently expect, our inability to sell these auction rate securities could adversely affect our liquidity and our financial flexibility. If the credit and capital markets deteriorate further, the credit ratings of the issuers or the insurers of the auction rate securities are downgraded or the collateral underlying the securities deteriorates or other events occur that would affect the fair value of these auction rate securities, it is possible that we might conclude that some or all of them have sustained an other-than-temporary impairment in value, such that we would be required under GAAP to further write down their carrying value. Any such write-down could result in a charge against our earnings in the period in which the impairment is recognized, which could be material. 20 Table of Contents We believe that our current cash and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs, including working capital requirements and capital expenditures for at least the next twelve months. Our future cash requirements will depend on many factors, including our operating income, the timing of our new product introductions, the costs to maintain adequate manufacturing capacity, the continuing market acceptance of our products, payment terms for major contracts and customers, or other changing business conditions and future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If our existing cash is insufficient to meet our requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity securities, debt securities or borrow from banks. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in the amounts we need or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. The sale of additional equity securities, including convertible debt securities, would be dilutive to our stockholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would divert cash for working capital requirements and capital expenditures to service debt and could result in operating and financial covenants that restrict our operations and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. If we are unable to obtain additional equity or debt financing, our business, operations and prospects may suffer. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in economic and political policies of the PRC government or laws or regulations of the PRC could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could materially and adversely affect our business. All of our manufacturing operations are located in China and a significant portion of devices incorporating our products are ultimately sold to end users in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. China’s economy is in transition from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy and differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, level of capital reinvestment, access to financing, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past 30 years, the growth has been uneven across different regions and economic sectors of China. The PRC government has implemented various economic and political policies and laws and regulations to encourage economic development. Although we believe that such policies have had a positive effect on the economic development of China, we cannot predict the future direction of those policies or the effects those policies may have on our business or results of operations. In addition, since 2003, the PRC government has implemented a number of measures, such as raising surplus deposit reserve ratios and lending interest rates, in order to slow down the growth of certain sectors of China’s economy. These actions, as well as future actions and policies of the Chinese government, could materially affect our liquidity and access to bank financing. Furthermore, changes to the policies of the PRC government or the laws and regulations of the PRC could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could adversely affect our business. Because our business depends in part on the continued growth of the Chinese economy, any slowdown of such growth could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Our business is significantly dependent upon the economy and the business environment in China. In particular, we expect to continue to rely significantly on the growing demand in China for devices incorporating our products, which in turn may be dependent on the continuing growth of the Chinese economy. The Chinese economy experienced some deflation a few years ago, and there can be no assurance that the growth of the Chinese economy will be steady or that any slowdown of the Chinese economy will not have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. China’s legal system is characterized by uncertainty that could negatively impact our business and results of operations. We conduct all of our manufacturing operations at our Wuxi subsidiary, which is subject to PRC laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly-foreign owned 21 Table of Contents companies. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system and recently enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. The interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties in that (i) the laws and regulations are relatively new, (ii) only limited volumes of court decisions are published, (iii) prior court decisions may be only cited for reference but have limited precedential value, and (iv) interpretation of statutes and regulations may also be subject to new government policies reflecting domestic political, economic or social changes. Such uncertainties may limit the legal protections available to us. The enforcement of existing laws, or contracts based on existing law, may be uncertain and sporadic as well. It may be difficult to obtain swift and equitable enforcement or to obtain enforcement of a judgment by a court of another jurisdiction. The relative inexperience of China’s judiciary in many types of cases creates additional uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. Any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. The PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until some time after the violation. Our activities in China may be subject to administrative review and approval by various national and local agencies of the PRC government. Because of the changes occurring in China’s legal and regulatory structure, we may not be able to secure the requisite governmental approval for our activities. Failure to obtain the requisite governmental approval for any of our activities could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, may have been required in connection with our recent initial public offering under a recently adopted PRC regulation; failure to have obtained this approval in connection with our recent offering could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, reputation and trading price of our common stock; the regulation also establishes more complex procedures for acquisitions conducted by non-PRC investors which could make it more difficult to pursue growth through acquisitions. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, namely, the PRC Ministry of Commerce, the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council, or SASAC, the State Administration of Taxation, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, the CSRC and SAFE, jointly adopted the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the New M&A Rule, which became effective on September 8, 2006. This New M&A Rule purports, among other things, to require offshore special purpose vehicles, or SPVs, formed for overseas listing purposes through acquisitions of PRC domestic companies and directly or indirectly controlled by PRC companies or individuals, to obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to publicly listing their securities on a non-PRC stock exchange. On September 21, 2006, the CSRC published a notice on its official website specifying documents and materials required to be submitted to it by SPVs seeking CSRC approval of their overseas listings. While the application of the New M&A Rule remains unclear, we believe, based on the advice of our PRC counsel, Commerce & Finance Law Offices, that CSRC approval may not be applicable to us in the context of our recent initial public offering because we established our PRC subsidiary through direct investment by non-PRC persons rather than by merger or acquisition of PRC domestic companies, and we did not seek CSRC approval for our initial public offering. However, as it is uncertain how the New M&A Rule will be interpreted or implemented, we cannot assure you that the relevant PRC government agency, including the CSRC, or PRC courts would reach the same conclusion as our PRC counsel. If the CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies determine that we should have obtained the 22 Table of Contents CSRC’s approval for this offering, we may face sanctions by the CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies. In such event, these regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, delay or restrict the repatriation of the proceeds from this offering into the PRC, or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our common stock. The New M&A Rule also established additional procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by non-PRC investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the Ministry of Commerce be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a non-PRC investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise. In the future, we may grow our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses, although we do not have any plans to do so at this time. Complying with the requirements of the New M&A Rule to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the Ministry of Commerce, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. The discontinuation of any of the preferential tax treatments currently available to us in China could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The PRC government or its local agencies or bureaus provides preferential tax treatment, in the form of reduced tax rates or tax holidays, to certain qualified enterprises. Our wholly-owned PRC subsidiary in Wuxi, as a PRC high-technology company operating in a designated high-tech development zone, benefits from a 15% preferential enterprise income tax rate, compared to a standard rate of 33%, and is exempt from enterprise income tax for two years from 2007, the year in which our Wuxi subsidiary first had positive accumulated earnings, and is entitled to a 50% reduction in the enterprise income tax for the succeeding three years. Moreover, under current PRC laws and regulations, no tax is required to be withheld by our Wuxi subsidiary with respect to any dividend payments made by it to us, as its stockholder, and no PRC tax is payable by us on the dividends received from our Wuxi subsidiary provided that such profits are permitted to be paid by it in accordance with PRC laws and regulations. In addition, as an FIE, our Wuxi subsidiary enjoys certain tax deductions for purchasing equipment made in China. Under the relevant regulation, if an FIE purchases Chinese-made equipment, and the price does not exceed the total investment amount of such FIE, for projects that fall within certain specified categories, 40% of the purchase price amount may be credited against the surplus between the amount of enterprise income tax payable in the current year and the amount paid in the previous year. If the credited amount is greater than the surplus, the excess amount can be carried forward for up to five years, subject to certain exceptions. In addition, we have also benefited from rebates of value-added tax for our export products. The discontinuation of these preferential tax treatments could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress, the PRC legislature, approved and promulgated a new tax law named “Enterprise Income Tax Law,” which took effect beginning January 1, 2008. Under the new tax law, foreign invested enterprises, or FIEs, and domestic companies are subject to a uniform income tax rate of 25%. The new tax law provides a five-year transition period starting from its effective date for those enterprises which were established before the promulgation date of the new tax law and which were entitled to a preferential lower income tax rate under the then effective tax laws or regulations. The income tax rate of such enterprises will gradually transition to the uniform tax rate within the transition period in accordance with implementing rules to be issued by the State Council. For those enterprises which are enjoying tax holidays, such tax holidays may continue until their expiration in accordance with regulations to be issued by the State Council, but where the tax holiday has not yet started because of losses, such tax holiday shall be deemed to commence from the first effective year of the new tax law. While the new tax law equalizes the income tax rates for FIEs and domestic companies, preferential tax treatment would continue to be given to companies in certain encouraged sectors and to entities classified as high-technology companies 23 Table of Contents supported by the PRC government, whether FIEs or domestic companies. According to the new tax law, entities that qualify as “high-technology companies especially supported by the PRC government” will benefit from a tax rate of 15% as compared to the uniform tax rate of 25%. However, there are a number of requirements for a company to qualify as a “high-technology company especially supported by the PRC government,” including those relating to business scope. There can be no assurances that our Wuxi subsidiary will continue to qualify as a high-technology company supported by the PRC government, that it will continue to do so in the future and continue to benefit from such preferential tax rate. Following the effectiveness of the new tax law, our effective income tax rate may increase, unless we are otherwise eligible for preferential treatment. In addition, according to the Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules, effective January 1, 2008, any dividends payable to us by our Wuxi subsidiary will be subject to the PRC withholding tax at the rate of 10%. Currently, any such dividends are not subject to any PRC withholding tax. Although our Wuxi subsidiary has not paid any dividends to us historically and does not intend to do so in the future, if our Wuxi subsidiary ever does pay any dividends to us in the future, our consolidated results of operations and the amount of dividends we pay to our stockholders may be adversely affected. The new tax law provides only a framework of the enterprise tax provisions. Even with the promulgation of its implementation rules, the new tax law still leaves many details on the definitions of numerous terms as well as the interpretation and specific application of various provisions unclear and unspecified. We may be treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes after the Enterprise Income Tax Law becomes effective on January 1, 2008, which may subject us to PRC income tax for any dividends we pay to our non-PRC stockholders. Under the Enterprise Income Tax Law, enterprises established under the laws of non-PRC jurisdictions, but whose “de facto management body” is located in the PRC are treated as resident enterprises for PRC tax purposes. Although the implementation rules of the Enterprise Income Tax Law provides a definition of “de facto management body”, such definition has not been tested and there remains uncertainty as to which situations a non-PRC enterprise’s “de facto management body” is considered to be located in the PRC. Some members of our management team are currently based in the PRC, and may remain in the PRC after the effectiveness of the new tax law. If we are treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes, we will be subject to PRC tax on our worldwide income at the 25% uniform tax rate, and any dividend payable by us to our non-PRC corporate stockholders will also be subject to a PRC withholding tax at the rate of 10%. If we are required under the new tax law to withhold income tax on dividends we pay to our non-PRC corporate stockholders, the amount of dividends we are able to pay may be materially and adversely affected. The intercompany transactions between us and our Wuxi subsidiary may be subject to scrutiny by the United States and the PRC tax authorities, and there may be material and adverse tax consequences if the United States or the PRC tax authorities determine that these transactions were not entered into on an arm’s length basis. Our Wuxi subsidiary, Memsic Semiconductor (Wuxi) Co., Ltd., or Memsic Wuxi, is a PRC company. Our Wuxi subsidiary generally purchases manufacturing components from third parties but purchases a small amount of manufacturing components from our U.S. headquarters at cost. To more efficiently manage our manufacturing process, we expect our Wuxi subsidiary to purchase all manufacturing components from third parties beginning in January 2008. We purchase all of the MEMS sensors our Wuxi subsidiary produces. We could face material and adverse tax consequences if the United States or the PRC tax authorities determine that the transactions between us and our Wuxi subsidiary were not entered into on an arm’s length basis and they may adjust our income and expenses for United States or PRC tax purposes in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could result in a reduction, for PRC tax purposes, of deductions recognized by our Wuxi subsidiary, or an increase, for the U.S. tax purposes, of income recognized by us on a consolidated basis, which could increase our overall tax liability and adversely affect our results of operations. 24 Table of Contents Our Wuxi subsidiary is subject to restrictions on paying dividends or making other distributions to us. We may rely on dividends paid by our Wuxi subsidiary for our cash needs, including the funds necessary to pay any dividends or other cash distributions to our stockholders, service any debt we may incur and pay our operating expenses. Regulations in the PRC currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in China. Our Wuxi subsidiary is required to set aside at least 10% (up to an aggregate amount equal to half of its registered capital) of its after-tax profits each year, if any, to fund certain reserve funds. These reserve funds are not distributable as cash dividends. As of December 31, 2009, Memsic Wuxi has established a reserve fund of $549,000. If our Wuxi subsidiary incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Limitations on the ability of our Wuxi subsidiary to pay dividends to us could adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends, or otherwise fund and conduct our business. Accordingly, if for any of the above or other reasons, we do not receive dividends from our Wuxi subsidiary, our liquidity, financial condition and ability to make dividend distribution to our stockholders will be materially and adversely affected. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenue effectively. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of Renminbi, or RMB, into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. Because all or substantially all of our net sales are denominated in U.S. dollars, but a significant portion of our expenses are denominated in RMB, any restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to use cash from sales generated in U.S. dollars to fund our business activities in China. The principal regulation governing foreign currency exchange in China is the Foreign Currency Administration Rules (1996), as amended. Under these rules, RMB are freely convertible for trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not for direct investment, loans or investment in securities outside China unless the prior approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, is obtained. Although the PRC government regulations now allow greater convertibility of RMB for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain. For example, foreign exchange transactions under the capital account of our Wuxi subsidiary, including principal payments in respect of foreign currency-denominated obligations, remain subject to significant foreign exchange controls and the approval of SAFE. These limitations could affect our ability to obtain foreign exchange for capital expenditures. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our stockholders. In addition, we cannot be certain that the PRC regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on foreign exchange transactions in the future. Fluctuations in the value of RMB could negatively impact our result of operations. The value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions inside and outside of China. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its policy of pegging the value of the RMB to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the RMB is permitted to fluctuate within a managed band based on market supply and demand and by reference to a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in a 17.5% appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar between July 21, 2005 and December 31, 2009. While the international reaction to the RMB revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy. In the long term, the RMB may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar, depending on the fluctuation of the basket of currencies against which it is currently valued, or whether it is permitted to enter into a full float. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar and all of our sales and liabilities are denominated in U.S. dollars. Approximately one third of our operating expenses and a majority of our assets are denominated in RMB. Accordingly, as a result of China’s 2005 currency policy, our operating expenses, in U.S. dollar equivalents, 25 Table of Contents increased and our operating margins and net income were adversely affected. In addition, the value of our assets, in U.S. dollar equivalents, decreased. To the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into RMB for our operations, appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the RMB amount we receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our RMB into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our common stock or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the RMB would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. As a result, any significant revaluation of the RMB may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenue, earnings and financial position, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our common stock in U.S. dollars. Recent PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents and employee stock options granted by overseas-listed companies may increase our administrative burden, restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activity or otherwise adversely affect the implementation of our acquisition strategy. If our stockholders who are PRC residents, or our PRC employees who are granted or exercise stock options, fail to make any required registrations or filings under such regulations, we may be unable to distribute profits and may become subject to liability under PRC laws. The PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, recently promulgated regulations that require PRC residents and PRC corporate entities to register with local branches of SAFE in connection with their direct or indirect offshore investment activities. Under the SAFE regulations, PRC residents who make, or have previously made, direct or indirect investments in offshore companies, will be required to register those investments. In addition, any PRC resident who is a direct or indirect stockholder of an offshore company is required to file or update the registration with the local branch of SAFE, with respect to that offshore company, any material change involving its round-trip investment or capital variation, such as an increase or decrease in capital, transfer or swap of shares, merger, division, long-term equity or debt investment or creation of any security interest. Although our PRC counsel has advised us that these SAFE regulations are not applicable to us or our stockholders, we cannot assure you that SAFE will agree with our position. If SAFE disagrees with us, and if any of our PRC stockholders fails to make in a timely manner the required SAFE registration or file or update the registration, our Wuxi subsidiary may be prohibited from distributing its profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to us, and we may also be prohibited from injecting additional capital into our Wuxi subsidiary. Moreover, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. The failure or inability of our PRC resident stockholders to comply with the registration procedures set forth therein may subject us to fines and legal sanctions. In addition, because it is uncertain how the SAFE regulations will be interpreted or implemented, we cannot predict how these regulations will affect our business operations or future strategy. For example, we may be subject to more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign-currency-denominated borrowings, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, if we decide to acquire a PRC domestic company, we cannot assure you that we or the owners of such company, as the case may be, will be able to obtain the necessary approvals or complete the necessary filings and registrations required by the SAFE regulations. This may restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and could adversely affect our business and prospects. On March 28, 2007, SAFE promulgated the Application Procedure of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plan or Stock Option Plan of Overseas-Listed Company, or the Stock Option Rule. Under the Stock Option Rule, PRC citizens who are granted stock options by an overseas publicly-listed company are required, through a PRC agent or PRC subsidiary of such overseas publicly-listed company, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures. We and our PRC employees who have been granted stock options are subject to the Stock Option Rule as a result of our recent initial public offering. If we or our PRC optionees fail to comply with these regulations, we or our PRC optionees may be subject to fines and legal sanctions. 26 Table of Contents A number of our PRC employees exercised their stock options prior to our becoming an overseas publicly-listed company. Since there is not yet a clear regulation on how and whether these PRC employees are required to complete their SAFE registration, and it is uncertain as to how the government authorities will interpret the Stock Option Rule, it is unclear whether such exercises are permissible by PRC laws and it is uncertain how SAFE or other government authorities will interpret or administrate such regulations. Therefore, we cannot predict how such exercises will affect our business or operations. PRC regulation of direct investment and loans by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or limit us from using the proceeds of our initial public offering to make additional capital contribution or loans to our Wuxi subsidiary. Any capital contributions or loans, that we, as an offshore entity, make to our Wuxi subsidiary, are subject to PRC regulations. For example, any of our loans to our Wuxi subsidiary cannot exceed the difference between the total amount of investment that our Wuxi subsidiary is approved to make under relevant PRC laws and the registered capital of our Wuxi subsidiary, and any such loans must be registered with the local branch of the SAFE as a procedural matter. In addition, our additional capital contributions to our Wuxi subsidiary must be approved by the PRC Ministry of Commerce or its local counterpart. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these approvals on a timely basis, or at all. If we fail to obtain such approvals, our ability to make equity contribution or provide loans to our Wuxi subsidiary or to fund its operations may be adversely affected, which could harm our Wuxi subsidiary’s liquidity and its ability to fund its working capital and expansion projects and meet its obligations and commitments. We are obligated to withhold and pay PRC individual income tax on behalf of our employees who are subject to PRC individual income tax. If we fail to withhold or pay such individual income tax in accordance with applicable PRC regulations, we may be subject to certain sanctions and other penalties and may become subject to liability under PRC laws. Under PRC laws, we are obligated to withhold and pay individual income tax on behalf of our employees who are subject to PRC individual income tax. In addition, the State Administration of Taxation has issued several circulars concerning employee stock options. Under these circulars, our employees working in China (which could include both PRC employees and expatriate employees subject to PRC individual income tax) who exercise stock options will be subject to PRC individual income tax. We are obligated to file documents related to employee stock options with relevant tax authorities and withhold and pay individual income taxes for those employees who exercise their stock options. However, the relevant tax authority has advised us that due to the difficulty in determining the fair market value of our shares as a private company, we need not withhold and pay the individual income tax for the exercises until after the closing of this offering. Thus, we have not withheld and paid the individual income tax for the option exercises. We cannot assure you that the tax authority will not act otherwise and request us to withhold and pay the individual income tax immediately and impose sanctions, such as fines, on us. Any recurrence of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, an outbreak of contagious diseases, such as avian influenza, could negatively impact our business and results of operations. An outbreak of avian flu in the human population could result in a widespread health crisis that could adversely affect the economies and financial markets of many countries, particularly in Asia. A recurrence of SARS in Southeast Asia could also have similar adverse effects. Since a substantial part of our operations and a substantial number of our customers and suppliers are currently based in Asia (mainly the PRC, Taiwan and Japan), an outbreak of avian flu, SARS or other contagious diseases in Asia or elsewhere, or the perception that such outbreak could occur, and the measures taken by the governments of countries affected, including the PRC, would adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 27 Table of Contents Risks Related to Ownership of Our Securities The market price for our common stock may be volatile. There has been a history of significant volatility in the market prices of securities of technology companies. Since our initial public offering in December 2007, the market price for our common stock has ranged from a high of $11.00 to a low of $1.28 per share. The market price of our common stock may continue to be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations, in response to factors including the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • conditions in the semiconductors industry; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other companies in the semiconductors industry; • announcements by us or our competitors of new products, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • addition or departure of key personnel; • fluctuations of exchange rates between the RMB and the U.S. dollar; • intellectual property litigation; • release of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding shares or sales of additional shares; and • general economic or political conditions in Asia, particularly China, the United States and Europe. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our shares. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our common stock, the market price for our common stock and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock upon listing may be influenced by research or reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more analysts who cover us downgrade our common stock, the market price for our common stock would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which, in turn, could cause the market price for our common stock or trading volume to decline. Delaware law and provisions of our charter documents could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay, deter or prevent a change in control. Our charter documents contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control or changes in our management that our stockholders may deem advantageous. These provisions: • require super-majority voting to amend some provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws; • require a staggered board of directors making it more difficult for stockholders to replace a majority of our directors; • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that our board could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares and to discourage a takeover attempt; 28 Table of Contents • provide that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by the president, the chief executive officer or the board of directors acting pursuant to a resolution adopted by the board; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which, subject to some exceptions, prohibits “business combinations” between a Delaware corporation and an “interested stockholder,” which is generally defined as a stockholder who becomes a beneficial owner of 15% or more of a Delaware corporation’s voting stock for a three-year period following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder. Section 203 could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. These anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choice and cause us to take corporate actions with which you may disagree. Our principal stockholders and affiliated entities can exert substantial influence over our corporate activities. As of March 29, 2010, our executive officers, director and entities affiliated with them beneficially owned approximately 23.2% of our outstanding shares of common stock. These included Dr. Yang Zhao, our president and chief executive officer, who beneficially owned 7.3% of our outstanding shares of common stock. These stockholders, if acting together, could exert substantial influence over matters such as electing directors and approving material mergers, acquisitions or other business combination transactions. This concentration of ownership may also discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our shares. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other stockholders, including those who purchase shares in this offering. In cases where their interests are aligned and they vote together, these stockholders will also have the power to prevent or cause a change in control. In addition, these persons could divert business opportunities from us to themselves or others. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business. As a public company, we are required to document and test our internal financial control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and will require, beginning with the 2010 audit period, a report by our independent auditors that both addresses management’s assessments and provides for the independent auditor’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls. During the course of our testing, we may identify deficiencies which we may not be able to remediate in time to meet our deadline for compliance with Section 404, and we may also identify inaccuracies or deficiencies in our financial reporting that could require revisions to or restatement of prior period results. Testing and maintaining internal controls will also involve significant costs and can divert our management’s attention from other matters that are important to our business. We may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could harm our operating results, could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and could require that we restate our financial statements for prior periods, any of which could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and cause a decline, which could be material, in the trading price of our common stock. 29 Table of Contents It may be difficult to enforce judgments against us in U.S. courts. Although we are a Delaware corporation, our manufacturing subsidiary and approximately 39.5% of our assets were located outside of the United States as of December 31, 2009. As a result, you may not be able to enforce against us in U.S. courts judgments based on the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws. It is unclear if original actions of civil liabilities based solely upon U.S. federal securities laws are enforceable in courts outside the United States. It is equally unclear if judgments entered by U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws are enforceable in courts outside the United States. Any enforcement action in a court outside the United States will be subject to compliance with procedural requirements under applicable local law, including the condition that the judgment does not violate the public policy of the applicable jurisdiction. 