D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Any recurrence of the global financial crisis and economic downturn similar to that occurred in 2008 and early 2009 could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operation and prospects. The global financial markets experienced periods of extreme volatility and disruption in 2008 and early 2009. The global financial crisis, concerns over inflation or deflation, energy costs, geopolitical risks, and the availability and cost of financing contributed to the unprecedented levels of market volatility and adversely affected the expectations for the continuous growth of the global economy, the capital market and the consumer industry. These factors, combined with others, resulted in a severe global economic downturn and also a slowdown in the PRC economy. This change in the macro-economic conditions had an adverse impact on our business and operations by causing a decrease in the number handset mobile we sold in 2009. Although the global and PRC economies have shown signs of recovery from the second half of 2009, any recurrence of the global financial crisis as a result of the recent market volatility arising from the concerns over certain European countries may adversely affect the growth of the PRC economy, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 5 Table of Contents Evaluating our business and prospects may be difficult and our past results may not be indicative of our future performance. Our business had grown and evolved rapidly from 2003 to 2007. However, primarily due to the global economic downturn and increasing competition in the Chinese mobile handset market, there was a decrease in our revenue, operating income and net income in 2008 and 2009. We may continue to experience decreases in our revenue, operating income and net income and may not be able to achieve a similar growth rate in future periods as we did from 2003 to 2007 and our historical operating results therefore may not provide a meaningful basis for evaluating our business, financial performance and prospects. Moreover, our business model, technology and ability to achieve satisfactory manufacturing results at higher volumes are unproven. Therefore, you should not rely on our past results or our historical rate of growth as an indication of our future performance. If we cannot keep pace with market changes and produce mobile handsets with new technologies and features in a timely and cost-efficient manner to meet our customers’ requirements and preferences, the growth and success of our business will be materially adversely affected. The mobile handset market in China is characterized by changing consumer preferences with respect to style and functionality, increasing demand for new and advanced technologies and features, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving industry standards, intense competition and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. If we cannot keep pace with market changes and produce new mobile handsets in a timely and cost-efficient manner to meet our customers’ requirements and preferences, the growth and success of our business will be materially adversely affected. From time to time, we or our competitors may announce new products, product enhancements or technologies that may replace or shorten the life cycles of our products or cause mobile phone users to defer purchasing our existing products. Shorter product cycles may require us to invest more in developing and designing new products and to introduce new products more rapidly, which may increase our costs of product development and decrease our margins and profitability. In addition, we may not be able to make such additional investments and any additional investments we make in new product development and introductions may not be successful. Even if we are able to continually develop and introduce new products, they may not gain market acceptance. Market acceptance of our products will depend on various factors including: • the perceived advantages of our new products over existing competing products; • our ability to attract mobile handset users who are currently using products of our competitors; • product cost relative to performance; and • the level of customer service available to support new products. Market acceptance of our products can also be affected by the telecommunication services provided by mobile telecommunications operators in China. For example, on May 24, 2008, the MIIT, the National Development and Reform Commission, or the NDRC, and the Ministry of Finance jointly issued an announcement to promote innovation in homegrown telecommunications technology and the restructuring of the operations in the telecommunications industry. In January 2009, the MIIT issued 3G licenses to China Mobile (TD-SCDMA), China Unicom (CDMA2000) and China Telecom (WCDMA). The development of 3G wireless telecommunication services and subsequent new technologies could materially impact the sales of our existing and future products. In addition, the operation of inexpensive limited mobility telecommunication services or other competitive services, such as personal handyphone system, in China may also have a material adverse effect on the sales of our mobile handsets. Therefore, commercial acceptance by customers of new products including any 3G mobile handset we offer may not occur at the rate or level we expect, and we may not be able to successfully adapt existing products to effectively and economically meet customer demand, thus impairing the return from our investments. In addition, a very small portion of our mobile handset models represented a disproportionately large percentage of our handset unit sales and revenue in the past several years and these product leaders served as important drivers for our overall growth. However, we may not be able to replicate such “hit” models on a regular basis, if at all, in future periods. If our existing or new products fail to achieve market acceptance for any reason, our business and growth prospects could be materially adversely affected. We may also be required under applicable accounting standards to recognize a charge for the impairment of assets to the extent our existing products become uncompetitive or obsolete, or if any new products fail to achieve commercial acceptance. Any such charge may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Competition in our industry is intense. Our failure to maintain or improve our market position and respond successfully to changes in the competitive landscape may have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. The mobile handset manufacturing industry in China is intensely competitive. Industry participants compete with each other mainly on the basis of the breadth and depth of their product portfolios, price, operational and manufacturing efficiency, technical performance, product features, quality, customer support and brand recognition. We are facing significant competition from a number of competitors, including domestic mobile handset producers such as Bird Ningbo Co., Ltd., Konka Group Co., Ltd., Beijing Tianyu Communication Equipment Co. Ltd., Gionee Communication Co., Ltd. and Haier (Qingdao) Telecom Co., Ltd. and a number of large multinational mobile handset producers, such as Nokia Corporation, Motorola, Inc., Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications (China) Co. Ltd., and LG Electronics (China) Ltd. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, significantly larger market shares, access to larger customer bases and significantly greater economies of scale and financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than we do. Some of these competitors have used, and we expect will continue to use, more aggressive pricing strategies, greater amounts of incentives and subsidies for distributors, retailers and customers, more successful design approaches and more advanced technologies. In addition, some competitors have chosen to focus on building products based on commercially available components, which may enable them to introduce these products faster and with lower levels of research and development spending than us. Furthermore, consolidation among the industry participants in China may potentially result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as end-to-end suppliers as well as competitors who are more specialized in particular areas and geographic markets. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 6 Table of Contents Our operating results significantly depend on our ability to compete in this market environment, in particular on our ability to adapt to political, economic or regulatory changes, to introduce new products to the market and to continuously enhance the functionality while reducing the cost of new and existing products. If we fail to maintain or increase our market share and scale compared to our competitors, our cost advantage may be eroded, which could materially adversely affect our competitive position and our results of operations, particularly our profitability. In addition, we also face competition from unlicensed mobile handset manufacturers in China that make mobile handsets without the requisite governmental approvals and licenses. We believe that these manufacturers are able to keep their production costs low primarily as a result of tax avoidance and non-payment of various fees that are required for all licensed products. Despite recent government action against many of these unlicensed manufacturers, we believe that such mobile handsets still account for a significant portion of all mobile handsets sold in China. If the government is not successful in preventing these unlicensed mobile handset manufacturers from producing and selling their mobile handsets, our market share and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. As a result of developments in our industry, we also expect to face new competition from companies in related industries, such as consumer electronics manufacturers. Additionally, we face increasing competition from mobile telecommunication operators that are increasingly offering mobile devices under their own brands. If we cannot respond successfully to these competitive developments, our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Our sales, results of operations and reputation could be materially adversely affected if we fail to efficiently manage our manufacturing operations without interruption, or fail to ensure that our products meet the expectations of our distributors and our end-user customers and are delivered on time. The operation of our business requires successful coordination of several sequential and complex manufacturing processes, the disruption of any of which could interrupt our revenue generation and have a material and adverse effect on our relationships with our distributors and end-user customers, our brand name, and our financial performance. Our manufacturing operations involve raw material and component sourcing from third parties, internal assembly processes and distribution processes. These operations are modified on a regular basis in an effort to improve manufacturing and distribution efficiency and flexibility. We may experience difficulties in coordinating our supplies of components and raw materials to meet the demand for our products, increasing or decreasing production at our facilities, adopting new manufacturing processes, finding a timely way to develop the best technical solutions for new products, or achieving manufacturing efficiency and flexibility. We may experience delays in adjusting or upgrading production at our facilities when we introduce new models, delays in expanding manufacturing capacity, failure in our manufacturing processes or failure by our business partners to adequately perform the services we have outsourced to them, which in turn may have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. In addition, a failure or an interruption could occur at any stage of our product development, manufacturing and delivery processes, resulting in products not meeting the expectations of our distributors and our customers, or being delivered late, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales, results of operations and reputation. Our operations could be materially adversely affected if we fail to manage effectively our relationships with, or lose the services of, our third-party manufacturers or other third-party service providers. We rely on the manufacturing services provided by third-party manufacturers, including EMS providers, to manufacture a significant portion of our mobile handset products. In 2007, 2008 and 2009, we outsourced to third-party EMS providers, 85.6%, 73.7% and 90.2%, respectively, of the total mobile handsets we shipped. Reliance on third-party manufacturers involves a number of risks, including the lack of control over the manufacturing process and the potential absence or unavailability of adequate capacity. If any of our third-party manufacturers cannot or will not manufacture our products in required volumes on a cost-effective basis, in a timely manner, at a sufficient level of quality, or at all, we will need to secure additional manufacturing capacity. Even if this additional capacity is available at commercially acceptable terms, the qualification process could be lengthy and could cause interruptions in product shipments, which may result in a decrease in our sales. In many cases, some of our competitors also utilize the same contract manufacturers, and we could be blocked from acquiring the needed components or increasing capacity if they have purchased capacity ahead of us. The unexpected loss of any of our third-party manufacturers could be disruptive to our business. We rely on independent mobile handset designers in China for certain software and hardware designs used in our production. If these or other mobile handset designers terminate their business relationships with us, or are otherwise unable to provide us with designs suitable for our products, or if we fail to enhance our in-house research and development activities to compensate for our inability to obtain designs suitable for our products from these handset designers, our business and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We outsource certain software and hardware designs used in producing our products, such as high-end handset main boards, to independent mobile handset designers in China. If these mobile handset designers terminate their business relationships with us, or are otherwise unable to provide us with designs suitable for our products, or if we fail to increase our in-house research and development activities to compensate for our inability to obtain designs suitable for our products from these handset designers, our business and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 7 Table of Contents Our results of operations, particularly our profitability, may be materially adversely affected if we do not successfully manage price erosion and are not able to manage costs related to our products and operations. Price erosion is a characteristic of the mobile handset industry, and the products offered by us are also subject to natural price erosion over time. If we are not able to lower our costs at the same rate or faster than this price erosion and introduce new cost-efficient products with higher prices in a timely manner, as well as manage costs related to our products and operations generally, it will have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations, particularly our profitability. We rely primarily on our distributors for marketing our products at the provincial and local levels and for after-sales support of our products. Because we have limited influence over our distributors, we cannot be certain that their marketing and after-sale support of our products will be adequate or will not harm our brand and reputation. Moreover, if we fail to timely identify additional or replacement distributors upon the loss of one or more of our distributors, or if we are unable to successfully manage our distribution network, or if we are unable to collect payments from our distributors on a timely basis, our operating results may suffer. Substantially all of our sales are made to our distributors. As of June 18, 2010, our distribution network included four national distributors, 58 provincial distributors and three TV direct sales distributors. These distributors resell our products to end customers in China either directly or through their own distribution networks principally composed of local distributors and retail outlets. We grant our distributors the right to use our brand name and logo when they market our products within their respective sales territories or channels and when they provide after-sales support to our end-user customers. However, our contractual arrangements with our distributors do not provide us with control over their everyday business activities, and one or more of our distributors may engage in activities that are prohibited under our contractual arrangements with them, that violate PRC laws and regulations governing the mobile handset industry or other PRC laws and regulations generally, or that are otherwise harmful to our business or our reputation in the industry. Distributors individually accounting for more than 10% of our revenues collectively accounted for 36.1%, 65.1% and 86.4% of our revenues in 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively. See note 1(c) to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report for a list of such distributors. Due to our dependence on distributors for the sale, marketing and after-sales support of our products, any one of the following events may cause material fluctuations or declines in our revenue and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations: • reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more of our distributors; • selection by one or more of our distributors of our competitors’ products; • failure to timely identify additional or replacement distributors upon the loss of one or more of our distributors; and • failure of any of our distributors to make timely payment for our products. In addition, we rely on our distributors for marketing activities at the provincial and local levels. This approach may not be effective in building brand recognition at provincial and local levels consistent with our national brand-building efforts. We also outsource to some of our distributors and other third parties our after-sales support to end-user customers. If our after-sales service providers fail to provide adequate, satisfactory and effective after-sales support, our brand image may suffer, and our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We currently enjoy a number of favorable arrangements with some of our distributors, such as exclusive sales relationships, up-front payment by distributors, and settlement by cash or promissory notes guaranteed by banks. However, the competition for distribution channels is intense in the mobile handset industry in China and many of our competitors are expanding their distribution channels in China. We may not be able to compete successfully against the larger and better funded sales and marketing operations of some of our current or potential competitors, especially if these competitors provide more favorable contractual arrangements for distributors. As a result, we may lose some of our distribution channels to our competitors, which may cause us to lose some or all of our favorable arrangements with these distributors and may even result in the termination of our contractual relationships with some of our distributors. While we do not believe we are substantially dependent upon any individual distributor, finding replacement distributors could be time-consuming and any resulting delay may be disruptive and costly to our business. In addition, we may not be able to successfully manage our distribution channels and the cost of any consolidation or further expansion may exceed the revenue generated from these efforts. The occurrence of any of these factors could result in a significant decrease in the sales volume of our products and therefore materially harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our distributors often must make a significant commitment of capital to purchase our products, and we provide trade credits to some of our distributors. As a result, any downturn in a distributor’s business that affects the distributor’s ability to pay us could harm our financial condition. Historically, we have not experienced any significant bad debt or collection problems, but such problems may arise in the future. The failure of any of our distributors to make timely payments could require us to write off accounts receivable or increase provisions made against our accounts receivable, either of which could adversely affect our financial condition. 8 Table of Contents If we fail to source a sufficient quantity of high-quality components used in our products at reasonable costs from our suppliers, our competitive position, reputation and business could suffer. Our dependence on suppliers for certain types of components could jeopardize our production activities and increase our cost of sales. We do not produce most of the components and raw materials necessary for the production of our mobile handsets and rely on suppliers to provide us with a substantial portion of these components and raw materials. The aggregate costs attributable to our five largest raw materials and components suppliers in 2007, 2008 and 2009 were 70.0%, 72.5% and 88.3%, respectively. We may experience a shortage in the supply of certain components in the future and if any such shortage occurs, our manufacturing capabilities and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If any supplier is unwilling or unable to provide us with high quality components and raw materials in required quantities and at acceptable costs, we may not be able to find alternative sources on satisfactory terms in a timely manner, or at all. Our inability to find or develop alternative sources if and as required could result in delays or reductions in manufacturing and product shipments. Moreover, these suppliers may delay component or material shipments or supply us with inferior quality components or raw materials that may adversely impact the performance of our mobile handsets. If any of these events occur, our competitive position, reputation and business could suffer. Some of our products also incorporate imported components. Our imported electronic components and raw materials are subject to a variety of Chinese governmental permit requirements, approval procedures and import duties, and may also, from time to time, be subject to export controls and other legal restrictions imposed by foreign countries. Should the Chinese government refuse to issue the necessary permits or approvals to us or our suppliers, or take any administrative actions to limit imports of certain components, or if we or our suppliers fail to pay any required import duties, or if governmental agencies or laws of foreign countries prevent the timely export of certain components we require to China, we may become subject to penalties and fines or fail to obtain important components for our mobile handsets, and our ability to manufacture and sell our products in China could be adversely affected. In addition, import duties increase the cost of our products and may make them less competitive. Some components and materials used in our products are currently purchased from a single supplier or a small number of suppliers and our ability to deliver our products according to market demands depends in large part on obtaining timely and adequate supplies of components and materials on competitive terms. Failure by any of our suppliers to meet our needs for components could impact our production targets, limit our sales or increase our costs. While we do not believe we are substantially dependent upon any individual supplier, finding alternative suppliers for these components and materials could be costly and time-consuming. Moreover, if we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, an over- or undersupply of components and production capacity could occur. This factor could limit our ability to supply sufficient products to our customers or could increase our costs. At the same time, we may commit to certain capacity levels or component quantities, which, if unused, will result in charges for unused capacity or scrapping costs. We maintain inventories of raw materials, components and handsets, and our inventories may become obsolete. The rapid technological change in our industry, the short product life cycle of our handsets, our limited forecasting experience and processes and the competitive nature of our target markets make forecasting our future sales and operating results difficult. Our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations regarding future sales. In addition, to enable us to promptly fill orders, we maintain inventories of raw materials, components and handsets. As a result, we have to commit to considerable costs in advance of anticipated sales. Any significant shortfall of sales may result in our maintaining higher levels of inventories of raw materials, components and finished goods than we require, thereby increasing our risk of inventory obsolescence and corresponding inventory write-downs and write-offs. We cannot guarantee that such write-downs will be adequate to cover all losses resulting from inventory obsolescence. We may require additional capital and we may not be able to obtain it on acceptable terms or at all. We believe that our current cash and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our present cash needs. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If these resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities could result in dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could require us to agree to operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. Our ability to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: • investors’ perception of, and demand for, securities of China-based mobile handset companies; • conditions of the U.S. and other capital markets in which we may seek to raise funds; • our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows; • PRC governmental regulation of foreign investment in the telecommunications industry; • economic, political and other conditions in China; and • PRC governmental policies relating to foreign currency borrowings. Financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Any failure by us to raise additional funds on terms favorable to us, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents Our past brand-sharing practices may result in negative publicity and may even lead to investigations or penalties by relevant PRC regulatory authorities, which could have a material adverse impact on our reputation and business. Through the first half of 2006, we allowed other mobile handset manufacturers to use our GSM licenses to produce mobile handsets and sell these mobile handsets under our brand name. Although we exerted a certain degree of control over the manufacturing processes of these mobile handsets, we had almost no control over most other aspects of the production and sale of these handsets, including raw materials purchases. As a result, mobile handsets produced under these arrangements by the other manufacturers may not have the same quality as the products made by us and any product quality claims associated with these mobile handsets may result in adverse publicity for us and harm to our reputation in the market, which may result in a decrease in sales of our mobile handsets and materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, although there are no specific laws and regulations in China governing the brand-sharing practice as described above or similar practices, the MIIT and the State Administration of Industry and Commerce launched certain campaigns in the past aimed at stopping practices they considered inconsistent with acceptable industry practices. Should these relevant regulatory authorities decide that our past brand-sharing practices were unacceptable or contravened existing laws and regulations in China, we may become subject to investigations or penalties. Furthermore, if any new regulation prohibiting brand-sharing is promulgated with retroactive effect, our past brand-sharing practice may be subject to investigation based upon such new regulation, which may result in penalties and may have an adverse effect on us. Our operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from period to period in the future. Our operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from period to period based on a number of factors such as the launch of particular best-selling products in a given period, the seasonality of our mobile handset sales, the short life-cycle of any given handset model in China due to rapid technological advances, a possible deterioration of economic conditions in China and potential changes to the regulation of the mobile handset industry in China. These factors are discussed elsewhere in this annual report. As a result, you may not be able to rely on period-to-period comparisons of our operating results as an indication of our future performance. If our revenues for a particular period are lower than we expect, we may be unable to reduce our fixed costs and operating expenses for that period by a corresponding amount, which would negatively impact our operating results for that period relative to our operating results for other periods. We must develop or otherwise acquire complex, evolving technologies to use in our business and meet market demand. Our failure to develop or otherwise acquire these complex technologies, or to successfully commercialize such technologies as new advanced products that meet customer demand on a timely basis, will have a material adverse effect on our business, our ability to meet our targets and our results of operations. To succeed in our markets and meet market demand, we must develop or otherwise acquire complex, evolving technologies to use in our business. However, the development and use of new technologies, applications and technology platforms for our mobile handsets involves the commitment of significant amounts of our management’s time, substantial costs and risks both within and outside of our control. This is true whether we develop these technologies internally, acquire or invest in other companies with these technologies or collaborate with third parties on the development of these technologies. The technologies, functionalities and features on which we choose to focus may not achieve as broad or timely customer acceptance as we expect. This may result from numerous factors, including the availability of more attractive alternatives or a lack of sufficient compatibility with other existing technologies, products and solutions. Additionally, even if we do select the technologies, functionalities and features that customers ultimately want, we or the companies that work with us may not be able to bring them to the market in a timely manner. We may also face difficulties obtaining and providing the technologies preferred by our potential customers, or at prices acceptable to them. In addition, our products include increasingly complex technologies developed or licensed to us by third parties. We may not be able to obtain or maintain necessary or desirable licenses or permits from third parties, with full rights needed to use them in our business, on commercially acceptable terms at such times as we may seek to use them. We rely on a number of technologies licensed from third parties and the loss of some or all of these licenses or failure to renew them on a timely basis could interrupt our production and have a material adverse impact on our business. We rely on a number of technologies licensed from third parties for manufacturing our mobile handsets. For example, we rely on Access China Inc. for certain software supporting wireless application protocol and multimedia messaging service functions. If some or all of such licenses are terminated, or if we fail to renew certain licenses on a timely basis or if we fail to find alternative suppliers, our production of mobile handsets would be disrupted and our business and financial conditions could be materially adversely affected. We have not applied for patents or registered copyrights for most of our intellectual property and our failure to adequately protect our intellectual property rights may undermine our competitive position, and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights may be costly. Implementation of PRC intellectual property-related laws has historically been lacking, primarily because of ambiguities in PRC laws and difficulties in enforcement. Accordingly, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. We rely primarily on trade secrets and other contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property. We have not applied for patents or registered copyrights in China for most of our inventions, original works of authorship, developments and improvements relating to the mobile handsets we produce. The actions we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to provide us with meaningful protection or commercial advantage. As a result, third parties may use the technologies that we have developed and compete with us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 10 Table of Contents In addition, policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology can be difficult and expensive. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and the outcome of any such litigation may not be in our favor. Given the relative unpredictability of China’s legal system and potential difficulties in enforcing a court judgment in China, there is no guarantee that we would be able to halt the unauthorized use of our intellectual property through litigation in a timely manner. Furthermore, any such litigation may be costly and may divert management attention away from our business and cause us to expend significant resources. An adverse determination in any such litigation will impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects and reputation. In addition, we have no insurance coverage against litigation costs and would have to bear all costs arising from such litigation to the extent we are unable to recover them from other parties. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be exposed to infringement or misappropriation claims by third parties, which, if determined adversely against us, could disrupt our business and subject us to significant liability to third parties, as well as have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to use and develop our technology, know-how and product designs without infringing upon the intellectual property rights of third parties. Our products include increasingly complex technology and, as the amount of such technologies and the number of parties claiming rights continue to increase, the possibility of alleged infringement and related intellectual property claims against us continues to rise. The holders of patents and other intellectual property rights potentially relevant to our product offerings may be unknown to us, or may otherwise make it difficult for us to acquire a license on commercially acceptable terms. There may also be technologies licensed to and relied on by us that are subject to infringement or other corresponding allegations or claims by others which could damage our ability to rely on such technologies. In addition, although we endeavor to ensure that companies that work with us possess appropriate intellectual property rights or licenses, we cannot fully avoid the risks of intellectual property rights infringement created by suppliers of components used in our products or by companies with which we work in cooperative research and development activities. Since all technology standards, including those used and relied on by us, include some intellectual property rights, we cannot fully avoid risks of a claim for infringement of such rights due to our reliance on such standards. We believe that the number of third parties declaring their intellectual property to be relevant to these standards, for example, those standards related to 3G mobile communication technologies as well as other advanced mobile communications standards, is increasing, which may increase the likelihood that we will be subject to such claims in the future. While we believe that any such intellectual property rights declared and found to be essential to a given standard carry with them an obligation to be licensed on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms, not all intellectual property owners agree on the meaning of that obligation and, thus, costly and time-consuming litigation over such issues may result in the future. As we continue to market and sell our products throughout China, and as litigation becomes more common in China, we face a higher risk of becoming subject to claims for intellectual property infringement. While we have not, to date, become subject to these types of claims, it is possible that we may, in the future, become subject to such intellectual property infringement claims. Regardless of whether such claims have merit or are decided in our favor, any such litigation could have a negative impact on our brand, reputation and ability to conduct our business and sell some or all of our products. Our current or potential competitors, many of which have substantial resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may have or may obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or sell our products in China or other countries. The validity and scope of claims relating to these patents involve complex scientific, legal and factual questions and analysis and, therefore, may be highly uncertain. In addition, the defense of intellectual property claims, including patent infringement suits, and related legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time consuming, and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management personnel. Furthermore, an adverse determination in any such litigation or proceeding to which we may become a party could cause us to: • pay damage awards; • seek licenses from third parties; • pay additional ongoing royalties, which could decrease our profit margins; • redesign our products; or • be restricted by injunctions, each of which could effectively prevent us from pursuing some or all of our business and result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents It may become more difficult to maintain our quality standards, and problems with product quality or product performance could result in a decrease in customers and revenue, unexpected expenses and loss of market share. Product liability claims against us could result in adverse publicity and potentially significant monetary damages. Our operating results depend, in part, on our ability to deliver quality products on a timely and cost-effective basis. In the past, we have experienced manufacturing defects as a result of various factors, including defects in component parts and human error in assembly. As mobile handset products become technologically more complex, it may become more difficult to maintain our quality standards. If we experience deterioration in the performance or quality of any of our products, it could result in delays in shipments, cancellations of orders or customer returns and complaints, loss of goodwill, and harm to our brand and reputation. Furthermore, as a result of ongoing technological developments, our products are increasingly used together with hardware or software components that have been developed by third parties and when a problem occurs, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. In addition, some components, such as batteries or software applications, may not be fully compatible with our products and may not meet our and our customers’ quality, safety, security or other standards. The use by customers of our products with incompatible or otherwise substandard hardware or software components, while largely outside of our control, could result in malfunctions or defects in our handsets and result in harm to our brand. These problems may lead to a decrease in customers and revenue, harm to our brand, unexpected expenses, loss of market share, the incurrence of significant warranty and repair costs, diversion of the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts, customer relation problems or loss of customers, any one of which could materially adversely affect our business. In addition, we contract with third parties, such as EMS providers, to use their manufacturing facilities to produce our mobile handsets. We may be unable to exercise the same degree of quality control over these manufacturing facilities as we can over our own facilities. Any product quality problems associated with the products produced by these third parties may also lead to adverse publicity against us, affect our reputation and cause a decrease in sales of our mobile handsets. As with other mobile handset producers, we are also exposed to risks associated with product liability claims if the use of the mobile handsets we sell results in injury, death or damage to property. We cannot predict at this time whether product liability claims will be brought against us in the future or the effect of any resulting negative publicity on our business. We do not have product liability insurance and have not made provisions for potential product liability claims. Therefore, we may not have adequate resources to satisfy a judgment if a successful claim is brought against us. Moreover, the successful assertion of product liability claims against us could result in potentially significant monetary damages and require us to make significant payments and incur substantial legal expenses. Even if a product liability claim is not successfully pursued to judgment by a claimant, we may still incur substantial legal expenses defending against such a claim. Our sales and profitability depend on the continued growth of the mobile telecommunications industry, especially in China, and if the mobile telecommunications industry does not grow as we expect or grows at a slower speed than we expect, our sales and profitability may be materially adversely affected. We derive substantially all of our revenues from sales of mobile handsets in China. The continued development of our business depends, in large part, on continued growth in the mobile telecommunications industry, especially in China, in terms of the number of existing mobile subscribers who upgrade or replace their existing mobile handsets, the number of new subscribers and increased usage. Although China’s wireless telecommunication industry has grown rapidly in the past, it may not continue to grow at the same growth rate in the future or at all. Furthermore, our sales and profitability are also affected by the extent to which there is increasing demand for, and development of, value-added services, leading to opportunities for us to successfully market mobile handsets that feature those services. To a certain extent, we are dependent on third-party mobile telecommunication operators to successfully introduce these value-added services that encourage end users to upgrade or replace their mobile handsets. For instance, mobile telecommunication operators in China have upgraded their networks to offer 3G wireless telecommunication services, which we believe will lead to increased demand for enhanced wireless value-added services and, therefore, increased demand for mobile handsets with more advanced technologies in China. Therefore, if mobile telecommunication operators are not successful in their attempts to introduce new services, increase the number of subscribers, stimulate increased usage and drive replacement sales, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. These developments in our industry are, to a large extent, outside of our control and any reduced demand for wireless voice and data services, any other downturn or other adverse changes in China’s wireless telecommunication industry could severely harm our business. Changes in the regulatory environment for telecommunications systems and services, especially in China, could negatively impact our business. The telecommunications industry in China is heavily regulated and regulatory changes may affect both our customers and us. For example, changes in regulations that impose more stringent standards for the production of mobile handsets could adversely affect our business. Similarly, tariff regulations that affect the pricing of new services offered by mobile telecommunication operators could also affect their ability to invest in network infrastructure, which in turn could affect the sales of our mobile handsets. License fees, environmental, health and safety, privacy and other regulatory changes may increase costs and restrict operations of mobile telecommunication network operators and service providers. The indirect impact of such changes could affect our business adversely even though the specific regulations may not directly apply to our products or us. MIIT has broad discretion and authority to regulate all aspects of the telecommunication and information technology industry in China, including managing spectrum bandwidths, setting mobile handset specifications and standards, approving the adoption of new technologies such as 3G, and drafting laws and regulations related to the electronics and telecommunication industries. MIIT also determines the forms and types of services that may be offered by telecommunication companies to the public, the rates that are charged to subscribers for those services and the content of material available in China over wireless services, including Internet content. In addition, China’s telecommunication regulatory framework is still at a relatively early stage of development, and prone to directional shifts and major structural changes. The PRC government is in the process of drafting a national telecommunication law, which may include new legislation governing the mobile handset industry. If MIIT sets standards with which our company is unable to comply or which would render our products uncompetitive, our ability to sell products could be severely limited, resulting in substantial harm to our operations. 12 Table of Contents Any environmental claims or failure to comply with any present or future environmental regulations may require us to spend additional funds and may materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that affect our operations, facilities and products in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. We believe that we are in compliance with all material environmental, health and safety laws and regulations related to our products, operations and business activities. Although we have not suffered material environmental claims in the past, the failure to comply with any present or future regulations could result in the assessment of damages or imposition of fines against us, suspension of production or a cessation of our operations. New regulations could also require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses. Any failure by us to control the use of, or to adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances could subject us to potentially significant monetary damages and fines or suspension of our business operations, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We do not carry any business interruption insurance or third-party liability insurance for our manufacturing facilities. We currently have one main handset manufacturing facility located in Huizhou City, Guangdong Province, China. Operation of manufacturing facilities involves many risks, including equipment failures, natural disasters, industrial accidents, power outages, labor disturbances and other business interruptions. We do not carry any business interruption insurance or third-party liability insurance for our manufacturing facilities to cover claims in respect of personal injury or property or environmental damage arising from accidents on our property or relating to our operations. Therefore, our existing insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all risks associated with our business. As a result, we may be required to pay for financial and other losses, damages and liabilities, including those caused by natural disasters and other events beyond our control, out of our own funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Labor laws in the PRC may adversely affect our results of operations. On June 29, 2007, the PRC government promulgated the Labor Contract Law of the PRC, or the Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008, and its implementary rules effective on September 18, 2008. The Labor Contract Law imposes greater liabilities on employers and significantly impacts the cost of an employer’s decision to reduce its workforce. Further, it requires certain terminations to be based upon seniority and not merit. In the event we decide to significantly change or decrease our workforce, the Labor Contract Law could adversely affect our ability to enact such changes in a manner that is most advantageous to our business or in a timely and cost effective manner, thus materially and adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. The dividends we receive from CECT and our global income may be subject to PRC tax under the new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, our foreign corporate holders of ordinary shares may be subject to a PRC withholding tax upon the dividends payable by us and upon gains realized on the sale of our ordinary shares, if we are classified as a PRC “resident enterprise.” On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress of the PRC passed the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, which law took effect as of January 1, 2008. Under the new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, dividends, interests, rent, royalties and gains on transfers of property payable by a foreign-invested enterprise in the PRC to its foreign investor who is a non-resident enterprise are subject to a 10% withholding tax, unless such non-resident enterprise’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with the PRC that provides for a reduced rate of withholding tax. The British Virgin Islands, where we are incorporated, does not have such a tax treaty with the PRC. If we are considered a non-resident enterprise, this new 10% withholding tax imposed on our dividend income received from CECT would reduce our net income and have an adverse effect on our operating results. Under the new tax law, an enterprise established outside the PRC with its “de facto management body” within the PRC is considered a resident enterprise and is subject to the enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on its worldwide income. The “de facto management body” is defined as the organizational body that effectively exercises overall management and control over production and business operations, personnel, finance and accounting, and properties of the enterprise. It remains unclear how the PRC tax authorities will interpret such a broad definition. Substantially all of our management members are based in the PRC. If the PRC tax authorities subsequently determine that we should be classified as a resident enterprise, then our worldwide income will be subject to income tax at a uniform rate of 25%, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Notwithstanding the foregoing provision, the new tax law also provides that, if a resident enterprise directly invests in another resident enterprise, the dividends received by the investing resident enterprise from the invested enterprise are exempted from income tax, subject to certain conditions. Therefore, if we are classified as a resident enterprise, the dividends we receive from CECT may be exempted from income tax. In addition, under the new tax law, foreign corporate holders of our ordinary shares may be subject to a 10% withholding tax upon dividends payable by us and gains realized on the sale or other disposition of ordinary shares, if such income is sourced from within the PRC. Although we are incorporated in the British Virgin Islands, it remains unclear whether the dividends payable by us or the gains our foreign corporate holders may realize will be regarded as income from sources within the PRC if we are classified as a PRC resident enterprise. Any such tax may reduce the return on an investment in our ordinary shares by a foreign corporation. We depend on our key personnel, and our business and growth may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. We may also have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified management and research and development personnel. Our future success depends substantially on the continued services of our key personnel. In particular, we are highly dependent on Mr. Zhi Yang Wu, our chairman, and Dr. David Li, our chief executive officer. We rely on their experience in the mobile handset manufacturing industry, similar business operations and sales and marketing and on their relationships with our shareholders, customers and suppliers. If we lose the services of one or more of these key personnel, we may not be able to replace them readily, if at all, with suitable or qualified candidates, and may incur additional expenses to recruit and retain new officers, which could severely disrupt our business and growth. We do not maintain key-man life insurance for any of our key personnel. If one or more of our key personnel is unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily or at all. 13 Table of Contents In addition, if any of these key personnel joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose some of our customers. We have entered into employment agreements with each of these key personnel, which contain confidentiality and non-competition provisions. However, if any disputes arise between these key personnel and us, it is not clear, in light of uncertainties associated with the PRC legal system, what the court decisions will be and the extent to which these court decisions could be enforced in China, where all of these key personnel reside and hold some of their assets. See “—Risks related to doing business in China—Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit the legal protections available to you and us.” Furthermore, as we expect to continue to expand our operations and develop new products, we will need to continue attracting and retaining experienced management and key research and development personnel. Competition for management and research and development personnel in the mobile handset market in China is intense, and the availability of suitable and qualified candidates is limited. In particular, we compete to attract and retain qualified research and development personnel with other mobile handset manufacturers, universities and research institutions. Competition for these individuals could cause us to offer higher compensation and other benefits in order to attract and retain them, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may also be unable to attract or retain the personnel necessary to achieve our business objectives, and any failure in this regard could severely disrupt our business and growth. Fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our business. Because substantially all of our earnings are denominated in Renminbi, any appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our balance sheet position and financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. In addition, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Renminbi would affect the relative purchasing power of our U.S. dollar denominated cash assets and the Renminbi value of our U.S. dollar denominated bank borrowings. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we may issue that will be exchanged into U.S. dollars and the earnings from and value of any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future. Since July 2005, the Renminbi has no longer been pegged to the U.S. dollar. Although currently the Renminbi exchange rate versus the U.S. dollar is restricted to a rise or fall of no more than 0.3% per day and the People’s Bank of China regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate, the Renminbi may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the medium to long term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future the PRC authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the Renminbi exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign exchange market. Only limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these transactions may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our foreign currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currencies. We believe that we were a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our taxable year that ended December 31, 2009 and we may continue to be a passive foreign investment company in the current and future taxable years, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors. We believe that we were a passive foreign investment company, or a PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our taxable year that ended December 31, 2009 under the asset test for the determination of a PFIC as described below. We may continue to be a PFIC in the current and future taxable years unless (i) we significantly reduce the amount of cash we hold or (ii) our market capitalization increases significantly. Such classification could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors. We must make a separate determination each year as to whether we are a passive foreign investment company. Specifically, we would be a passive foreign investment company for a taxable year if (i) at least 75% of our gross income is passive income during the taxable year or (ii) at least 50% of the average quarterly value of our assets during the taxable year is derived from assets that produce, or that are held for the production of, passive income. In applying the asset test described above, the value of our assets will generally be deemed to be equal to the sum of the aggregate value of our outstanding equity plus our liabilities. For purposes of the asset test, our goodwill, which is generally measured as the sum of the aggregate value of outstanding equity plus liabilities, less the value of known assets, should be treated as a non-passive asset. Therefore, a decrease in the market price of our ordinary shares and associated decrease in the value of our goodwill would cause a reduction in the value of our non-passive assets for purposes of the asset test. If there is such a reduction in goodwill and the value of our non-passive assets, the percentage of the value of our assets that is attributable to passive assets may increase, and if such percentage, based on an average of the quarterly values during a taxable year, exceeds 50%, we will be a PFIC for such taxable year. Accordingly, fluctuations in the market price of our ordinary shares may result in us being a PFIC for any year. In addition, the composition of our income and assets will be affected by how, and how quickly, we spend the cash we have on hand. If we are a PFIC for any taxable year, dividends paid by us in that year or the following taxable year will not be eligible for the reduced rate of taxation applicable to non-corporate U.S. investors, including individuals. Additionally, absent a special election, U.S. investors may be subject to additional U.S. federal income taxes on gain recognized with respect to the ordinary shares and on certain distributions, plus an interest charge. 14 Table of Contents For a detailed discussion of the PFIC rules, see “Item 10. Additional information—E. Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Taxation—Passive foreign investment company.” We urge investors to consult their own tax advisors with respect to the U.S. federal income tax consequences of their investment. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, our ability to accurately and timely report our financial results or prevent fraud may be adversely affected. In addition, investor confidence and the market price of our ordinary shares may be adversely impacted if we or our independent registered public accounting firm conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, in accordance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Upon the closing of the initial public offering of our ordinary shares in May 2007, we became a public company in the United States that is subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we include a report from management on our internal control over financial reporting in this annual report on Form 20-F. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting beginning with our annual report for the fiscal year ending on or after June 15, 2010. We identified a material weakness relating to the adoption and application of a new accounting standard — Emerging Issues Task Issue 07-5, “Determining Whether an Instrument is Indexed to an Entity’s own Stock,” with respect to our assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting for certain voluntary reporting interim periods in 2009. As of December 31, 2009, we have successfully remediated such material weakness by implementing this accounting standard for our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2009 and have improved processes and controls with respect to voluntary interim reporting. Our management has concluded that our internal controls over financial reporting were effective as of December 31, 2009. Such management report on internal control over financial reporting was not subject to attestation by our registered public accounting firm pursuant to temporary rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. If, in the future, our independent registered public accounting firm is not satisfied with our internal control over financial reporting or the level at which our internal control over financial reporting is documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if the independent registered public accounting firm interprets the requirements, rules or regulations differently than we do, then they may issue an adverse opinion. Any of these possible outcomes could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our reporting processes, which could adversely impact the market price of our ordinary shares. Our reporting obligations as a public company place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the market price of our ordinary shares. Furthermore, we anticipate that we will incur considerable costs and use significant management time and other resources in the effort to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Compliance with new rules and regulations applicable to companies publicly listed in the United States is costly and complex and any failure by us to comply with these requirements on an ongoing basis could negatively affect investor confidence in us and cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decrease. In addition to Section 404, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act also mandates, among other things, that companies adopt new corporate governance measures, imposes comprehensive reporting and disclosure requirements, sets stricter independence and financial expertise standards for audit committee members, and imposes increased civil and criminal penalties for companies, their chief executive officers, chief financial officers and directors for securities law violations. For example, in response to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the New York Stock Exchange has adopted additional comprehensive rules and regulations relating to corporate governance. After the initial public offering of our ordinary shares in May 2007, these new laws, rules and regulations increased the scope, complexity and cost of our corporate governance and future reporting and disclosure practices. Our current and future compliance efforts will continue to require significant management attention. It has also become more difficult and more expensive for companies such as ours to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage and to incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. Further, our board members, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers to fill critical positions within our company. Any failure by us to comply with these requirements on an ongoing basis could negatively affect investor confidence in us, cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decrease or even result in the delisting of our ordinary shares from the New York Stock Exchange. Risks Related to our Relationship with XING Our parent company has substantial control over us, and one of the existing shareholders of our parent company has substantial control over our parent company and us. The interests of our parent company and its controlling shareholder/shareholders may not be aligned with the interests of our other shareholders. Our parent company, Qiao Xing Universal Resources, Inc., or Xing, a public company listed on the Nasdaq Global Market, currently owns approximately 60.7% of our outstanding share capital. Accordingly, Xing, as our controlling shareholder, has substantial control over our business, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. Xing’s ultimate major shareholder is Mr. Rui Lin Wu, the chief executive officer and chairman of Xing and vice chairman of our company, who owned an aggregate of 34.7% equity interest in Xing as of May 31, 2010. In addition, Mr. Zhi Jian Wu Li, brother of our chairman and son of our vice chairman, also owned a 7.4% equity interest in Xing through Qiao Xing Trust and Wu Holdings Ltd. as of May 31, 2010. Accordingly, Mr. Rui Lin Wu, who has a controlling influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the shareholders for approval at our parent company, also has substantial control over our business. Without the consents of Xing, Mr. Rui Lin Wu and the other shareholders of Xing, we could be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us. The interests of Xing, Mr. Rui Lin Wu and the other shareholders of Xing may differ from the interests of our other shareholders. Xing, Mr. Rui Lin Wu and the other shareholders of Xing may take actions that could have a material adverse impact on us, such as influencing the way we allocate our resources, restricting our entry into certain kinds of businesses and preventing us from pursuing certain business opportunities that may be beneficial and profitable to us and our other shareholders. In addition, this concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our ordinary shares. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. 15 Table of Contents As a “controlled company,” we are exempt from certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, which may result in our independent directors not having as much influence as they would if we were not a controlled company. We are a “controlled company” as defined under Section 303A of the New York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual, or the NYSE Manual, because one of our shareholders holds more than 50% of our voting power. As a result, for so long as we remain a controlled company as defined under that rule, we are exempt from, and our shareholders generally are not provided with the benefits of, some of the NYSE corporate governance requirements, including that: • our compensation committee must be composed entirely of independent directors; and • our nomination committee must be composed entirely of independent directors. Relying on this exemption, Mr. Zhi Yang Wu, who does not satisfy the “independence” requirements of Section 303A of the NYSE Manual, serves as a member of our nominating and corporate governance committee and compensation committee. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and materially adversely affect our competitive position. We conduct substantially all of our operations and generate most of our revenues in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: • the higher level of government involvement; • the early stage of development of the market-oriented sector of the economy; • the rapid growth rate; • the higher level of control over foreign exchange; and • the allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has grown significantly since the late 1970s, the growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over the telecommunications industry, capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. The PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although the PRC government has in recent years implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the PRC government continues to exercise significant control over economic growth in China through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and imposing policies that impact particular industries or companies in different ways. For example, efforts by the PRC government to manage the pace of growth of the PRC economy could result in decreased capital expenditure by mobile telecommunication network operators, which in turn could reduce demand for our products. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth and the level of mobile communications investments and expenditures in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. In particular, any adverse change in the PRC government’s policies towards the mobile communications industry may have a material adverse effect on our business. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit the legal protections available to you and us. We conduct substantially all of our business through our operating subsidiary in the PRC, CECT, which is a foreign-invested enterprise in China. CECT is generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, laws applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes, and prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, a series of new PRC laws and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to you and us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. 16 Table of Contents We rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our operating subsidiary to fund our cash and financing requirements, but such dividends and other distributions are subject to restrictions under PRC law. Limitations on the ability of our operating subsidiary to pay dividends or other distributions to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions, pay dividends to you, and otherwise fund and conduct our business. We are a holding company and conduct substantially all of our business through our operating subsidiary, CECT, which is a limited liability company established in China. We rely on dividends paid by CECT for our cash needs, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, to service any debt we may incur and to pay our operating expenses. The payment of dividends by entities organized in China is subject to limitations. In particular, regulations in the PRC currently permit payment of dividends by CECT to us only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. CECT is also required to set aside no less than 10% of its after-tax net income each year as reserve funds unless such reserve funds, after making up losses of preceding years, have reached 50% of the registered capital, and these reserves are not distributable as dividends. Moreover, if CECT incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Any limitations on the ability of CECT to pay dividends or other distributions to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions, pay dividends to you, and otherwise fund or conduct our business. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. Most of our revenues and expenses are denominated in Renminbi. Under PRC law, the Renminbi is currently convertible under the “current account,” which includes dividends and trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account,” which includes foreign direct investment and loans. Currently, CECT may purchase foreign currencies for settlement of current account transactions, including payments of dividends to us, without the approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, the relevant PRC government authorities may limit or eliminate our ability to purchase foreign currencies in the future. Since a significant amount of our future revenues will be denominated in Renminbi, any existing and future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize revenues generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside China that are denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign exchange transactions by CECT under the capital account continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of or need to register with PRC government authorities, including SAFE. In particular, if CECT borrows foreign currency through loans from us or other foreign lenders, these loans must be registered with SAFE, and if we finance CECT by means of additional capital contributions, these capital contributions must be approved by certain government authorities, including the NDRC, the Ministry of Commerce, or MOFCOM, or their respective local counterparts. These limitations could affect the ability of CECT to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing. Recent PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident shareholders to personal liability and limit our ability to acquire PRC companies or to inject capital into our PRC subsidiary, limit our PRC subsidiary’s ability to distribute profits to us, or otherwise materially and adversely affect us. In October 2005, SAFE issued the Notice on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-raising and Return Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies, or Notice 75, which took effect on November 1, 2005. In May 2007, SAFE issued the Notice of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange on Operating Procedures Concerning Notice on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-raising and Return Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies, or Notice 106. Notice 75 and Notice 106 require PRC residents, including both legal persons and natural persons, to register with the competent local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China, referred to as an “offshore special purpose company,” for the purpose of acquiring any assets of or equity interest in PRC companies and raising fund from overseas. In addition, any PRC resident that is the shareholder of an offshore special purpose company is required to amend its SAFE registration with the local SAFE branch, with respect to that offshore special purpose company in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, merger, division, equity investment or creation of any security interest over any assets located in China. If any PRC shareholder of any offshore special purpose company fails to make the required SAFE registration and amendment, the PRC subsidiaries of that offshore special purpose company may be prohibited from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to the offshore special purpose company. The PRC residents who have already incorporated or gained control of offshore entities that had completed onshore investments in the PRC before Notice 75 took effect must register with the relevant local SAFE branch on or before March 31, 2006. In addition, such PRC residents are required to repatriate into the PRC all of their dividend profits or capital gains from their shareholdings in the offshore entity within 180 days of their receipt of such profits or gains. Moreover, failure to comply with the SAFE registration and amendment requirements described above could result in liability under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. A number of terms and provisions in Notice 75 and Notice 106 remain unclear. Because of uncertainty over how the Notice 75 and Notice 106 will be interpreted and implemented, and how or whether SAFE will apply it to us, we cannot predict how it will affect our business operations or future strategies. For example, our present and prospective PRC subsidiaries’ ability to conduct foreign exchange activities, such as the remittance of dividends and foreign currency-denominated borrowings, may be subject to compliance with the Notice 75 and Notice 106 by our or our parent company’s PRC resident beneficial holders. In addition, such PRC residents may not always be able to complete the necessary registration procedures required by the Notice 75 and Notice 106. We also have little control over either our present or prospective direct or indirect shareholders or the outcome of such registration procedures. A failure by our or our parent company’s PRC resident beneficial holders or future PRC resident shareholders to comply with the Notice 75 and Notice 106, if SAFE requires it, could subject us to fines or legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit our subsidiary’s ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, which could adversely affect our business and prospects. 17 Table of Contents In addition, the NDRC promulgated a rule in October 2004, or the NDRC Rule, which requires NDRC approvals for overseas investment projects made by PRC entities. The NDRC Rule also provides that approval procedures for overseas investment projects of PRC individuals shall be implemented with reference to this rule. However, there exist extensive uncertainties in terms of interpretation of the NDRC Rule with respect to its application to a PRC individual’s overseas investment, and in practice, we are not aware of any precedents that a PRC individual’s overseas investment has been approved by the NDRC or challenged by the NDRC based on the absence of NDRC approval. Our current beneficial owners who are PRC individuals did not apply for NDRC approval for investment in us. We cannot predict how and to what extent this will affect our business operations or future strategy. For example, the failure of our shareholders who are PRC individuals to comply with the NDRC Rule may subject these persons or our PRC subsidiary to certain liabilities under PRC laws, which could adversely affect our business. We face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks. Adverse public health epidemics or pandemics could disrupt business and the economies of the PRC and other countries where we do business. From December 2002 to June 2003, China and other countries experienced an outbreak of a highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia now known as severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. On July 5, 2003, the World Health Organization declared that the SARS outbreak had been contained. However, a number of isolated new cases of SARS were subsequently reported, most recently in central China in April 2004. During May and June of 2003, many businesses in China were closed by the PRC government to prevent transmission of SARS. Some countries, including China, have encountered incidents of the H5N1 strain of avian influenza from 2003. From April 2009 to present, the U.S. and certain other countries and regions, including China, reported the occurrence of H1N1 influenza. We are unable to predict the effect, if any, that any health epidemics may have on our business. In particular, any future outbreak of SARS, avian influenza, H1N1 influenza or other similar adverse public developments may, among other things, significantly disrupt our business, including limiting our ability to travel or ship our products within or outside China and forcing us to temporarily close our manufacturing facilities. Furthermore, an outbreak may severely restrict the level of economic activity in affected areas, which may in turn materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any outbreak of H1N1 influenza, avian influenza, SARS or any other epidemic. Risks Related to Investment in our Shares The market price for our ordinary shares may be highly volatile. The trading price of our ordinary shares has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. During the period from May 3, 2007, the first day on which our ordinary shares were listed on the NYSE, until June 18, 2010, the trading prices of our ordinary shares ranged from $1.32 to $15.48 per ordinary shares and the closing sale price on June 18, 2010 was $2.70 per ordinary share. The market price for our ordinary shares may continue to be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • announcements of technological or competitive developments; • regulatory developments in our target markets affecting us, our customers or our competitors; • announcements regarding intellectual property infringement litigation involving us or other mobile handset manufacturers or the issuance of patents to us or our competitors; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other mobile handset companies; • additions or departures of our directors, executive officers and key research personnel; and • release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares. In addition, securities markets may from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ordinary shares. In particular, changes in the market price of the shares of our parent company, Xing, may result in changes to the market price of our ordinary shares, even if the underlying reasons for the changes in the share price of Xing do not directly relate to our business. In addition, the performance and fluctuation of the market prices of other companies with business operations located mainly in China that have listed their securities in the United States may affect the volatility in the price and trading volumes for our ordinary shares. Some of these companies have experienced significant volatility, including significant price declines after their initial public offerings. The trading performances of these companies’ securities at the time of or after their offerings may affect the overall investor sentiment towards PRC companies listed in the United States and consequently may impact the trading performance of our ordinary shares. 18 Table of Contents Substantial future sales or perceived sales of our ordinary shares in the public market could cause the price of our ordinary shares to decline. Sales of our ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. Such sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. If any existing shareholder or shareholders sell a substantial amount of our ordinary shares, the prevailing market price for our ordinary shares could be adversely affected. In addition, we may issue additional ordinary shares for future acquisitions. If we pay for our future acquisitions in whole or in part with additionally issued ordinary shares, your ownership interests in our company would be diluted and this, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our ordinary shares. Our articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could have a material adverse effect on the rights of holders of our ordinary shares. Our amended and restated articles of association limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix their designations, powers, preferences, privileges, and relative participating, optional or special rights and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares. Preferred shares could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. If our board of directors decides to issue preferred shares, the price of our ordinary shares may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares may be materially adversely affected. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, in the event we conduct any rights offerings in the future, you may be unable to participate in such offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. Certain judgments obtained against us by our shareholders may not be enforceable. We are a company incorporated under the laws of the British Virgin Islands. We conduct our operations in China and substantially all of our assets are located in China. In addition, our directors and executive officers, and some of the experts named in this annual report, reside within China, and most of the assets of these persons are located within China. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the United States in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the U.S. federal securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the British Virgin Islands and of the PRC may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. Since we are a British Virgin Islands company, the rights of our shareholders may be more limited than those of shareholders of a company organized in the United States. Under the laws of some jurisdictions in the United States, majority and controlling shareholders generally have certain fiduciary responsibilities to the minority shareholders. Shareholder action must be taken in good faith, and actions by controlling shareholders which are obviously unreasonable may be declared null and void. British Virgin Island law protecting the interests of minority shareholders may not be as protective in all circumstances as the law protecting minority shareholders in some U.S. jurisdictions. In addition, the circumstances in which a shareholder of a British Virgin Islands company may sue the company derivatively, and the procedures and defenses that may be available to the company, may result in the rights of shareholders of a British Virgin Islands company being more limited than those of shareholders of a company organized in the United States. Furthermore, our directors have the power to take certain actions without shareholder approval which would require shareholder approval under the laws of most U.S. jurisdictions. 