Risk Factors” section, a number of factors may cause our revenue to fall short of our expectations or cause fluctuations in our operating results, including: • the purchasing and budgeting cycles of enterprise customers; • the timing and volume of shipments of our products during a quarter, particularly as we have recently begun to experience an increased level of sales occurring towards the end of a quarter; • delays in purchasing decisions by our customers from one quarter to the next, or later; • adverse conditions specific to the IP telecommunications market, including decreased demand due to overall economic conditions or reduced discretionary spending by enterprises, rates of adoption of IP telecommunications systems and introduction of new standards; • the timing and success of new product introductions by us or our competitors; • the timing of recognition of revenue from sales to our customers; • changes in our or our competitors’ pricing policies or sales terms; • changes in the mix of our products and services sold during a particular period; • the amount and timing of operating costs related to the maintenance and expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; • our ability to control costs, including third-party manufacturing costs and costs of components; • our ability to obtain sufficient supplies of components; • our ability to maintain sufficient production volumes for our products; • volatility in our stock price, which may lead to higher stock compensation expenses pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), Share-Based Payment, or SFAS 123(R); • publicly-announced litigation, such as the lawsuit by Mitel or stockholder litigation, and the impact of such litigation on our operating expenses and sales; • the timing of costs related to the development or acquisition of technologies or businesses; • changes in domestic and international regulatory environments affecting the Internet and telecommunications industries; • our ability to successfully expand our international operations; • seasonality in our target markets; and • general economic conditions or economic recession. Because our operating expenses are largely fixed in the short-term, any shortfalls in revenue in a given period would have a direct and adverse effect on our operating results in that period. We believe that our quarterly and annual revenue and results of operations may vary significantly in the future and that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. You should not rely on the results of one period as an indication of future performance. 12 Table of Contents We may not be profitable in future periods and our past growth rates may not be indicative of our future growth, and we may not be able to continue to maintain or increase our growth. We have not been profitable in some prior periods and we had an accumulated deficit of $82.2 million as of June 30, 2008. We may not succeed in sustaining profitability in future periods. We incur significant operating expenses associated with being a public company. We also expect that our operating expenses will continue to increase in all areas as we seek to grow our business. If our gross profit does not increase to offset these expected increases in operating expenses, our operating results will be negatively affected. You should not consider our historic revenue growth rates as indicative of our future growth. Accordingly we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or grow our revenue in the future. The gross margins on our products may decrease due to competitive pressures or otherwise, which could negatively impact our profitability. It is possible that the gross margins on our products will decrease in the future in response to competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us or our competitors, changes in the costs of components, manufacturing issues, royalties we need to pay to use certain intellectual property, or other factors. If we experience decreased gross margins and we are unable to respond in a timely manner by introducing and selling new, higher-margin products successfully and continually reducing our product costs, our gross margins may decline, which will harm our business and results of operations. Our business could be harmed by adverse economic conditions in our target markets or reduced spending on information technology and telecommunication products. Our business depends on the overall demand for information technology, and in particular for telecommunications systems. The market we serve is emerging and the purchase of our products involves significant upfront expenditures. In addition, the purchase of our products can be discretionary and may involve a significant commitment of capital and other resources. Weak economic conditions in our target markets, or a reduction in information technology or telecommunications spending even if economic conditions improve, would likely adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition in a number of ways, including longer sales cycles, lower prices for our products and reduced unit sales. For example, we estimate that a significant percentage of our sales in the year ended June 30, 2008 were derived from the financial services market, which is experiencing a downturn related to the sub-prime mortgage market defaults and conditions in the credit markets. The market in which we operate is intensely competitive, and many of our competitors are larger, more established and better capitalized than we are. The market for IP telecommunications and other telecommunications systems is extremely competitive. Our competitors include companies that offer IP systems, such as Cisco Systems, Inc. and 3Com Corporation, and that offer hybrid systems, such as Alcatel-Lucent, Avaya, Inc., Mitel Networks Corporation and Nortel Networks Corporation who is cooperating with Microsoft to enter the unified communications market. Several of the companies that offer hybrid systems are beginning to also offer IP telecommunications systems. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have greater financial, technical, research and development, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution and other resources. We could also face competition from new market entrants, whether from new ventures or from established companies moving in to the market. These competitors have various other advantages over us, including: • greater market presence, name recognition and brand reputation; • a larger installed base of telecommunications and networking systems with enterprise customers; • larger and more geographically distributed services and support organizations and capabilities; • a broader offering of telecommunications and networking products, applications and services; • a more established international presence to address the needs of global enterprises; • substantially larger patent and intellectual property portfolios; 13 Table of Contents • longer operating histories; • a longer history of implementing large-scale telecommunications or networking systems; • more established relationships with industry participants, customers, suppliers, distributors and other technology companies; and • the ability to acquire technologies or consolidate with other companies in the industry to compete more effectively. Given their capital resources, many of these competitors are in a better position to withstand any significant reduction in capital spending by enterprise customers on telecommunications equipment and are not as susceptible to downturns in a particular market. This risk is enhanced because we focus our business solely on the enterprise IP telecommunications market and do not have a diversified portfolio of products that are applicable to other market segments. We compete primarily on the basis of price, feature set, reliability, scalability, usability, total cost of ownership and service. Because our competitors have greater financial strength than we do and are able to offer a more diversified bundle of products and services, they have offered and in the future may offer telecommunications products at lower prices than we do. These larger competitors can also bundle products with other services, such as hosted or managed services, effectively reducing the price of their products. In order to remain competitive from a cost perspective, we have in the past reduced the prices of our products, and we may be required to do so in the future, in order to gain enterprise customers. Price reductions could have a negative effect on our gross margins. Our competitors may also be able to devote more resources to developing new or enhanced products, including products that may be based on new technologies or standards. If our competitors’ products become more accepted than our products, our competitive position will be impaired and we may not be able to increase our revenue or may experience decreased gross margins. If any of our competitors’ products or technologies become the industry standard, if they are successful in bringing their products to market earlier, or if their products are more technologically capable than ours, then our sales could be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position against our current or future competitors, and our failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our business. As voice and data networks converge, we are likely to face increased competition from Microsoft and other companies in the information technology, personal and business applications and software industries. The convergence of voice and data networks and their wider deployment by enterprises has led information technology and communication applications deployed on converged networks to become more integrated. This integration has created an opportunity for the leaders in information technology, personal and business applications and the software that connects the network infrastructure to those applications, to enter the telecommunications market and offer products that compete with our systems, commonly referred to as Unified Communications. Competition from these potential market entrants may take many forms, and they may offer products and applications similar to those we offer. For example, Microsoft Corporation has recently announced its unified communications product roadmap. This includes its recently introduced “Office Communicator 2007,” which Microsoft stated will allow end users to control communications, including voice over IP, through the Office Communicator application on their PC, which we expect will provide functionality similar to that offered by our Personal Call Manager application. Microsoft has also introduced “Office Communications Server 2007,” a product that offers competing unified messaging capabilities. Microsoft has also developed an IP phone and has licensed the rights to produce such phones to third parties. In addition, Microsoft has also entered into alliances with several of our competitors, and in July 2007 announced an extensive relationship with Nortel for the production of IP-based communications equipment that will be integrated with the Microsoft systems and Office Communicator Microsoft and other leaders in the information technology, personal and business applications and software industries, have substantial financial and other resources that they could devote to this market. If Microsoft continues to move into the telecommunications market or if other new competitors from the information technology, personal and business applications or software industries enter the telecommunications 14 Table of Contents market, the market for IP telecommunications systems will become increasingly competitive. If the solutions offered by Microsoft or other new competitors achieve substantial market penetration, or if we cannot integrate our products with Microsoft’s, we may not be able to maintain or improve our market position, and our failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. If the emerging market for enterprise IP telecommunications systems does not continue to grow and if we do not increase our market share, our future business would be harmed. The market for enterprise IP telecommunications systems has begun to develop only recently, is evolving rapidly and is characterized by an increasing number of market entrants. As is typical of a new and rapidly evolving industry, the demand for and market acceptance of, enterprise IP telecommunications systems products and services are uncertain. We cannot assure you that enterprise telecommunications systems that operate on IP networks will become widespread. In particular, enterprises that have already invested substantial resources in other means of communicating information may be reluctant or slow to implement an IP telecommunications system that can require significant initial capital expenditures as compared to a hybrid system that might require a lower initial capital expenditure despite higher potential total expenditures over the long term. If the market for enterprise IP telecommunications systems fails to develop or develops more slowly than we anticipate, our products could fail to achieve market acceptance, which in turn could significantly harm our business. This growth may be inhibited by a number of factors, such as: • initial costs of implementation for a new system; • quality of infrastructure; • security concerns; • equipment, software or other technology failures; • regulatory encroachments; • inconsistent quality of service; • perceived unreliability or poor voice quality over IP networks as compared to circuit-switched networks; and • lack of availability of cost-effective, high-speed network capacity. Moreover, as IP-based data communications and telecommunications usage grow, the infrastructure used to support these services, whether public or private, may not be able to support the demands placed on them and their performance or reliability may decline. Even if enterprise IP telecommunications systems become more widespread in the future, we cannot assure you that our products will attain broad market acceptance. We estimate that our sales represent a very small percentage of the total available market for enterprise IP telecommunications systems. We must increase our market penetration in order to maintain and expand our business. We rely on third-party resellers to sell our products, and disruptions to, or our failure to develop and manage our distribution channels and the processes and procedures that support them could adversely affect our business. Substantially all of our total revenue is generated through indirect channel sales. These indirect sales channels consist of third-party resellers that market and sell telecommunications systems and other products and services to customers. We expect indirect channel sales will continue to generate a substantial majority of our total revenue in the future. Our future success is highly dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a variety of third-party resellers of telecommunications products and services. Our success in expanding our customer base to larger enterprises will depend in part on our ability to expand our channel to partners that serve those larger enterprises. In addition, we rely on these entities to provide many of the installation, implementation and support services for our products. Accordingly, our success depends in large part on the effective performance of these channel partners. By relying on channel partners, we may in some 15 Table of Contents cases have little or no contact with the ultimate users of our products, thereby making it more difficult for us to establish brand awareness, ensure proper delivery and installation of our products, service ongoing enterprise customer requirements and respond to evolving enterprise customer needs. This difficulty could be more pronounced in international markets, where we expect that enterprise customers will purchase our systems from a channel partner that purchased through a distributor. Additionally, some of our channel partners are smaller companies that may not have the same financial resources as other of our larger channel partners, which exposes us to collections risks. Recruiting and retaining qualified channel partners and training them in our technology and products requires significant time and resources. In order to develop and expand our distribution channel, we must continue to scale and improve our processes and procedures that support our channel, including investment in systems and training, and those processes and procedures may become increasingly complex and difficult to manage. We have no long-term contracts or minimum purchase commitments with any of our channel partners, and our contracts with these channel partners do not prohibit them from offering products or services that compete with ours. Our competitors may be effective in providing incentives to existing and potential channel partners to favor their products or to prevent or reduce sales of our products. Our channel partners may choose not to offer our products exclusively or at all. Our failure to establish and maintain successful relationships with channel partners would likely materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our sales cycle can be lengthy and unpredictable, which makes it difficult to forecast the amount of our sales and operating expenses in any particular period. The sales cycle for our products typically ranges from six to nine months, and in some cases can be over 12 months. Part of our strategy is to increasingly target our sales efforts on larger enterprises. Because the sales cycle for large enterprises is generally longer than for smaller enterprises, our sales cycle in the future may be even longer than it has been historically. As a result, we may have limited ability to forecast whether or in which period a sale will occur. The success of our product sales process is subject to many factors, some of which we have little or no control over, including: • the timing of enterprise customers’ budget cycles and approval processes; • a technical evaluation or trial by potential enterprise customers; • our ability to introduce new products, features or functionality in a manner that suits the needs of a particular enterprise customer; • the announcement or introduction of competing products; and • the strength of existing relationships between our competitors and potential enterprise customers. We may expend substantial time, effort and money educating our current and prospective enterprise customers as to the value of, and benefits delivered by, our products, and ultimately fail to produce a sale. If we are unsuccessful in closing sales after expending significant resources, our operating results will be adversely affected. Furthermore, if sales forecasted for a particular period do not occur in such period, our operating results for that period could be substantially lower than anticipated and the market price of our common stock could decline. If we fail to develop and introduce new products and features in a timely manner, or if we fail to manage product transitions, we could experience decreased revenue or decreased selling prices in the future. Our future growth depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products successfully. Due to the complexity of the type of products we produce, there are significant technical risks that may affect our ability to introduce new products and features successfully. For example, our future success will depend in part on our ability to introduce new applications such as contact center systems, which are based on complex software, and our ability to integrate our products with other business applications, such as Microsoft Office. In addition, we must commit significant resources to developing new products and features before knowing whether our invest- 16 Table of Contents ments will result in products that are accepted by the market. The success of new products depends on many factors, including: • the ability of our products to compete with the products and solutions offered by our competitors; • the cost of our products; • the reliability of our products; • the timeliness of the introduction and delivery of our products; and • the market acceptance of our products. If we are unable to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner or in response to changing market conditions or enterprise customer requirements, or if these products do not achieve market acceptance, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Product introductions by us in future periods may also reduce demand for, or cause price declines with respect to, our existing products. As new or enhanced products are introduced, we must successfully manage the transition from older products, avoid excessive levels of older product inventories and ensure that sufficient supplies of new products can be delivered to meet enterprise customer demand. Our failure to do so could adversely affect our revenue, gross margins and other operating results. Our products include third-party technology and intellectual property, which could present additional risks. We incorporate certain third-party technologies, such as our contact center, collaboration bridge and network monitoring software, into our products, and intend to utilize additional third-party technologies in the future. However, licenses to relevant third-party technology or updates to those technologies may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Furthermore, we do not own the electronic design for our phones, so it may be difficult for us to arrange for an alternate of or a replacement for these products in a timely manner. Therefore, we could face delays in product releases until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed or developed, and integrated into our current products. These delays, if they occur, could materially adversely affect our business. Failure to protect our intellectual property could substantially harm our business. Our success and ability to compete are substantially dependent upon our intellectual property. We rely on patent, trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, enterprise customers, strategic partners and others to protect our intellectual proprietary rights. However, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property rights may be inadequate. We currently have a very small number of issued U.S. patents and a small number of patent applications pending in the U.S. and outside the U.S. We cannot assure you that any additional patents will be issued. Even if patents are issued, they may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights or our products against competitors, and third-parties may challenge the scope, validity and/or enforceability of our issued patents. In addition, other parties may independently develop similar or competing technologies designed around any patents that may be issued to us. In order to protect our intellectual property rights, we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect such rights. We may not be able to detect infringement, and may lose our competitive position in the market before we are able to do so. In the event that we detect any infringement of our intellectual property rights, we intend to enforce such rights vigorously, and from time to time we may initiate claims against third parties that we believe are infringing on our intellectual property rights if we are unable to resolve matters satisfactorily through negotiation. Litigation brought to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly, time-consuming and distracting to management and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights. Our failure to secure, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could harm our brand and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents If a third party asserts that we are infringing on its intellectual property, whether successful or not, it could subject us to costly and time-consuming litigation or expensive licenses, which could harm our business. There is considerable patent and other intellectual property development activity in our industry. Our success depends, in part, upon our not infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others. Our competitors, as well as a number of other entities and individuals, own or claim to own intellectual property relating to our industry and may have substantially larger and broader patent portfolios than we do. From time to time, third parties may claim that we are infringing upon their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing upon such rights. Third-parties have in the past sent us correspondence regarding their intellectual property and have filed litigation against us, and in the future we may receive claims that our products infringe or violate their intellectual property rights. In this regard, on June 27, 2007, Mitel Networks Corporation, one of our competitors, filed a lawsuit alleging that we infringed six of its patents. See “Business — Legal Proceedings” for a further discussion of this lawsuit. Furthermore, we may be unaware of the intellectual property rights of others that may cover some or all of our technology or products. Any claims or litigation could cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, could require that we pay substantial damages or ongoing royalty payments, prevent us from selling our products, damage our reputation, or require that we comply with other unfavorable terms, any of which could materially harm our business. In addition, we may decide to pay substantial settlement costs in connection with any claim or litigation, whether or not successfully asserted against us. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation regarding our intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. Litigation with respect to intellectual property rights in the telecommunications industries is not uncommon and can often involve patent holding companies who have little or no product revenue and against whom our own patents may provide little or no deterrence. We may also be obligated to indemnify our enterprise customers or business partners in connection with any such litigation, which could further exhaust our resources. Furthermore, as a result of an intellectual property challenge, we may be required to enter into royalty, license or other agreements. We may not be able to obtain these agreements on terms acceptable to us or at all. We may have to incur substantial cost in re-designing our products to avoid infringement claims. In addition, disputes regarding our intellectual property rights may deter distributors selling our products and dissuade potential enterprise customers from purchasing such products. As such, third-party claims with respect to intellectual property may increase our cost of goods sold or reduce the sales of our products, and may have a material and adverse effect on our business. Our products incorporate some sole sourced components and the inability of these sole source suppliers to provide adequate supplies of these components may prevent us from selling our products for a significant period of time or limit our ability to deliver sufficient amounts of our products. We rely on sole or limited numbers of suppliers for several key components utilized in the assembly of our products. For example, we source semiconductors that are essential to the operation of our phones from separate single suppliers, and we have not identified or qualified any alternative suppliers for these components. We do not have supply agreements with our sole source suppliers, and the components for our products are typically procured by our contract manufacturers. If we lose access to these components we may not be able to sell our products for a significant period of time, and we could incur significant costs to redesign our products or to qualify alternative suppliers. This reliance on a sole source or limited number of suppliers involves several additional risks, including: • supplier capacity constraints; • price increases; • purchasing lead times; • timely delivery ; and • component quality. This reliance is exacerbated by the fact that we maintain a relatively small amount of inventory and our contract manufacturers typically acquire components only as needed. As a result, our ability to respond to enter- 18 Table of Contents prise customer orders efficiently may be constrained by the then-current availability or the terms and pricing of these components. Disruption or termination of the supply of these components could delay shipments of our products and could materially and adversely affect our relationships with current and prospective enterprise customers. Also, from time to time we have experienced component quality issues with products obtained from our contract manufacturers. In addition, any increase in the price of these components could reduce our gross margin and adversely impact our profitability. We may not be able to obtain a sufficient quantity of these components to meet the demands of enterprise customers in a timely manner or that prices of these components may increase. In addition, problems with respect to yield and quality of these components and timeliness of deliveries could occur. These delays could also materially and adversely affect our operating results. If we fail to offer high quality customer support and services, our business would suffer. Once our telephone systems are deployed within our end customers’ sites, our customers depend on our support organization to resolve any issues relating to our products. A high level of customer support and services is important for the successful marketing and sale of our products. If we or our channel partners do not help our customers quickly resolve post-deployment issues and provide effective ongoing support, our ability to sell our products to existing customers would suffer and our reputation with potential customers would be harmed. Many of our channel partners offer primary support for the products they sell to customers. If the channel partners fail to provide timely and effective services, our business could be harmed. As we expand our sales, we will be required to hire and train additional support personnel. In addition, as we expand our operations internationally, our support organization will face additional challenges including those associated with delivering support, training and documentation in languages other than English. If we fail to maintain high quality customer support or to grow our support organization to match any future sales growth, our business will suffer. Our business may be harmed if our contract manufacturers are not able to provide us with adequate supplies. We outsource the manufacturing of our products. Currently, we have arrangements for the production of our products with a contract manufacturer in California and a contract manufacturer located in China. Our reliance on contract manufacturers involves a number of potential risks, including the absence of adequate capacity, ownership of certain elements of electronic designs, and reduced control over delivery schedules. We depend on our contract manufacturers to finance the production of goods ordered and to maintain adequate manufacturing capacity. We do not exert direct control over our contract manufacturers, so we may be unable to procure timely delivery of acceptable products to our enterprise customers. If sales of our products continue to grow, one or both of our contract manufacturers may not have sufficient capacity to enable it to increase production to meet the demand for our products. Moreover, both of our contract manufacturers could have manufacturing engagements with companies that are much larger than we are and whose production needs are much greater than ours. As a result, one or both of our contract manufacturers may choose to devote additional resources to the production of products other than ours if capacity is limited. In addition, our contract manufacturers do not have any written contractual obligation to accept any purchase order that we submit for the manufacture of any of our products nor do we have any assurance that our contract manufacturers will agree to manufacture and supply any or all of our requirements for our products. Furthermore, either of our contract manufacturers may unilaterally terminate their relationship with us at any time upon 180 days notice with respect to the contract manufacturer of our switches and 120 days notice with respect to the contract manufacturer of our phones or seek to increase the prices they charge us. As a result, we are not assured that our current manufacturers will continue to provide us with an uninterrupted supply of products of at an acceptable price in the future. Even if our contract manufacturers accept and fulfill our orders, it is possible that the products may not meet our specifications. Because we do not control the final assembly and quality assurance of our products, there is a possibility that these products may contain defects or otherwise not meet our quality standards, which could result in warranty claims against us that could adversely affect our operating results and future sales. 19 Table of Contents If our contract manufacturers are unable or unwilling to continue manufacturing our products in required volumes and to meet our quality specifications, or if they significantly increase their prices, we will have to identify one or more acceptable alternative contract manufacturers. The process of identifying and qualifying a new contract manufacturer can be time consuming, and we may not be able to substitute suitable alternative contract manufacturers in a timely manner or at acceptable prices. Additionally, transitioning to new contract manufacturers may cause delays in supply if the new contract manufacturers have difficulty manufacturing products to our specifications or quality standards. Furthermore, we do not own the electronic design for our phones, hence it may be more difficult or costly for us to change the contract manufacturer of our phones or to arrange for an alternate of or a replacement for these products in a timely manner should a transition be required. This could also subject us to the risk that our competitors could obtain phones containing technology that is the same as or similar to the technology in our phones. Any disruption in the supply of products from our contract manufacturers may harm our business and could result in a loss of sales and an increase in production costs, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. If we fail to forecast demand for our products accurately, we may have excess or insufficient inventory, which may increase our operating costs, decrease our revenues and harm our business. We generate forecasts of future demand for our products several months prior to the scheduled delivery to our prospective customers and typically prior to receiving a purchase order from our customers. We therefore make significant investments before our resellers or customers are contractually obligated to purchase our products and before we know if corresponding shipment forecasts will be changed. Our resellers and customers are not contractually bound by the forecasts they provide us until they sign a purchase order, and the orders we ultimately receive often differ from original forecasts. If we underestimate demand for our products, we will have inadequate inventory, which could result in delays in shipments, loss of orders and reduced revenues. This is exacerbated by the fact that lead times for materials and components that we need can vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms and demand for each component at a given time. On the other hand, if we overestimate demand for our products and increase our inventory in anticipation of customer orders that do not materialize, we will have excess inventory and we will face a risk of significant inventory write-downs. Our failure to forecast demand accurately on a timely basis could result in a decrease in our revenues and gross margins. Our products are highly complex and may contain undetected software or hardware errors, which could harm our reputation and future product sales. Because our enterprise customers rely on our products for telecommunications, an application that is critical to their business, any failure to provide high quality and reliable products, whether caused by our own failure or failures by our contract manufacturer or suppliers, could damage our reputation and reduce demand for our products. Our products have in the past contained, and may in the future contain, undetected errors or defects. Some errors in our products may only be discovered after a product has been installed and used by enterprise customers. Any errors or defects discovered in our products after commercial release could result in loss of revenue, loss of enterprise customers and increased service and warranty costs, any of which could adversely affect our business. In addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort or breach of warranty. Our purchase orders contain provisions relating to warranty disclaimers and liability limitations, which may not be upheld. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management’s attention and adversely affect the market’s perception of us and our products. In addition, if our business liability insurance coverage proves inadequate or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. If we fail to respond to technological changes and evolving industry standards, our products could become obsolete or less competitive in the future. The telecommunications industry is highly competitive and characterized by rapidly changing technologies and standards, frequent product introductions and short product life cycles. Accordingly, our operating results 20 Table of Contents depend upon, among other things, our ability to develop and introduce new products and our ability to reduce production costs of existing products. The process of developing new technologies and products is complex, and if we are unable to develop enhancements to, and new features for, our existing products or acceptable new products that keep pace with technological developments or industry standards, our products may become obsolete, less marketable and less competitive and our business will be harmed. In addition, as industry standards evolve, it is possible that one standard becomes predominant in the market. This could facilitate the entry into the market of competing products, which could result in significant pricing pressure. Additionally, if one standard becomes predominant and we adopt that standard, enterprises may be able to create a unified, integrated system by using phones, switches, servers, applications, or other telecommunications products produced by different companies. Therefore, we may be unable to sell complete systems to enterprise customers because the enterprise customers elect to purchase portions of their telecommunications systems from our competitors. For example, if a single industry standard is adopted, customers may elect to purchase our switches, but could purchase software applications and phones from other vendors. This could reduce our revenue and gross margins if enterprise customers instead purchase primarily lower-margin products from us. Conversely, if one standard becomes predominant, and we do not adopt it, potential enterprise customers may choose to buy a competing system that is based on that standard. Our future success depends on our ability to attract, integrate and retain key personnel, and our failure to do so could harm our ability to grow our business. Our future success will depend, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, integrate and retain our key personnel, namely our management team and experienced sales and engineering personnel. We may experience difficulty assimilating our newly hired personnel, which may adversely affect our business. In addition, we must retain and motivate high quality personnel, and we must also attract and assimilate other highly qualified employees. Competition for qualified management, technical and other personnel can be intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. Competitors have in the past and may in the future attempt to recruit our employees, and our management and key employees are not bound by agreements that could prevent them from terminating their employment at any time. If we fail to attract, integrate and retain key employees, our ability to manage and grow our business could be harmed. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our business could be harmed. We have experienced a period of rapid growth in our headcount and operations. In the last two years, we have substantially increased our workforce and significantly expanded our channel partner network and the number and size of enterprise customers implementing our systems. We anticipate that we will further expand our operations. This growth has placed, and anticipated future growth will place, a significant strain on our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. Our success will depend in part upon our ability to manage this growth effectively. To manage the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. Failure to effectively manage growth could result in difficulty in filling enterprise customer orders, declines in product quality or customer satisfaction, increases in costs or other production and distribution difficulties, and any of these difficulties could adversely impact our business performance and results of operations. We intend to expand our international operations, which could expose us to significant risks. To date we have limited international operations and have had low amounts of revenue from international enterprise customers. The future success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to expand our operations and enterprise customer base successfully worldwide. Operating in international markets requires significant resources and management attention and will subject us to regulatory, economic and political risks that are different from those in the United States. Because of our limited experience with international operations, our international expansion efforts may not be successful. In addition, we will face risks in doing business internationally that could adversely affect our business, including: • our ability to comply with differing technical and environmental standards and certification requirements outside the United States; 21 Table of Contents • difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations; • greater difficulty collecting accounts receivable and longer payment cycles; • the need to adapt our products for specific countries; • availability of reliable broadband connectivity and wide area networks in targeted areas for expansion; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • difficulties in understanding and complying with local laws, regulations and customs in foreign jurisdictions; • tariffs, export controls and other non-tariff barriers such as quotas and local content rules; • more limited protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • adverse tax consequences; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could increase the price of our products outside of the United States, increase the expenses of our international operations and expose us to foreign currency exchange rate risk; • restrictions on the transfer of funds; and • new and different sources of competition. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our future international operations and our overall business. We face certain litigation risks. We are a party to certain lawsuits. Litigation can be lengthy, time-consuming, expensive, disruptive to normal business operations and may divert management time and resources. The results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. An unfavorable resolution of a particular lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, we may incur higher general and administrative expenses than we have in the past in order to defend and prosecute this litigation, which could adversely affects our operating results. For additional information regarding the material lawsuits in which we are involved, see Item 3 “Legal Proceedings.” We are subject to environmental and other health and safety regulations that may increase our costs of operations or limit our activities. We are subject to environmental and other health and safety regulations relating to matters such as reductions in the use of harmful substances, the use of lead-free soldering and the recycling of products and packaging materials. For example, the European Parliament and the Counsel of the European Union have published directives on waste electrical and electronic equipment and on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. These directives generally require electronics producers to bear the cost of collection, treatment, recovery and safe disposal of past and future products from end users and to ensure that new electrical and electronic equipment does not contain specified hazardous substances. While the cost of these directives to us cannot be determined before regulations are adopted in individual member states of the European Union, it may be substantial and may divert resources, which could detract from our ability to develop new products or operate our business, particularly if we increase international operations. We may not be able to comply in all cases with applicable environmental and other regulations, and if we do not, we may incur remediation costs or we may not be able to offer our products for sale in certain countries, which could adversely affect our results. Some of our competitors could design their products to prevent or impair the interoperability of our products with enterprise customers’ networks, which could cause installations to be delayed or cancelled. Our products must interface with enterprise customer software, equipment and systems in their networks, each of which may have different specifications. To the extent our competitors supply network software, equip- 22 Table of Contents ment or systems to our enterprise customers, it is possible these competitors could design their technologies to be closed or proprietary systems that are incompatible with our products or to work less effectively with our products than their own. As a result, enterprise customers would be incentivized to purchase products that are compatible with the products and technologies of our competitors over our products. A lack of interoperability may result in significant redesign costs and harm relations with our enterprise customers. If our products do not interoperate with our enterprise customers’ networks, installations could be delayed or orders for our products could be cancelled, which would result in losses of revenue and enterprise customers that could significantly harm our business. Our products require reliable broadband connections, and we may be unable to sell our products in markets where broadband connections are not yet widely available. End users of our products must have reliable access to an enterprise customer’s wide area network in order for our products to perform properly. Accordingly, it is not likely that there will be demand for our products in geographic areas that do not have a sufficiently reliable infrastructure of broadband connections. Many geographic locations do not have reliable infrastructure for broadband connections, particularly in some international markets. Our future growth could be limited if broadband connections are not or do not become widely available in markets that we target. If our enterprise customers experience inadequate performance with their wide area networks, even if unrelated to our systems, our product performance could be adversely affected, which could harm our relationships with current enterprise customers and make it more difficult to attract new enterprise customers. Our products depend on the reliable performance of the wide area networks of enterprise customers. If enterprise customers experience inadequate performance with their wide area networks, whether due to outages, component failures, or otherwise, our product performance would be adversely affected. As a result, when these types of problems occur with these networks, our enterprise customers may not be able to immediately identify the source of the problem, and may conclude that the problem is related to our products. This could harm our relationships with our current enterprise customers and make it more difficult to attract new enterprise customers, which could harm our business. We might require additional capital to support our business in the future, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Although we anticipate that our current cash on hand and the proceeds from our initial public offering, which was completed in July 2007, will be sufficient to meet our currently anticipated cash needs through fiscal 2009, if our cash and cash equivalents balances and any cash generated from operations and from our initial public offering are not sufficient to meet our future cash requirements, we will need to seek additional capital, potentially through debt or equity financings, to fund our operations. We may also need to raise additional capital to take advantage of new business or acquisition opportunities. We may seek to raise capital by, among other things: • issuing additional common stock or other equity securities; • issuing debt securities; or • borrowing funds under a credit facility. We may not be able to raise needed cash on terms acceptable to us or at all. Financings, if available, may be on terms that are dilutive or potentially dilutive to our stockholders, and the prices at which new investors would be willing to purchase our securities may be lower than the initial public offering price. The holders of new securities may also receive rights, preferences or privileges that are senior to those of existing holders of common stock. In addition, if we were to raise cash through a debt financing, such debt may impose conditions or restrictions on our operations, which could adversely affect our business. If new sources of financing are required but are insufficient or unavailable, we would be required to modify our operating plans to the extent of available funding, which would harm our ability to maintain or grow our business. 23 Table of Contents We are exposed to fluctuations in the market value of our money market funds and investments and financial pressure on investment institutions managing our investments may lead to restrictions on access to our investments which could harm our financial condition. We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings and maturities. These securities are recorded on our consolidated balance sheets at fair value. This portfolio includes money market funds which have some exposure to asset-backed structured investment vehicles (SIVs). If the SIVs incur significant losses, we may recognize a decline in fair value of our money market funds below our cost basis which could negatively impact our earnings. We also hold notes, bonds and commercial paper of various issuers. If the debt of these issuers is downgraded, the carrying value of these investments could be impaired. In addition, we could also face default risk from some of these issuers, which could also cause the carrying value to be impaired. In addition, financial institutions have been under significant pressure over the past several quarters. Should one or more of the financial institutions managing our invested funds experience increased financial pressure resulting in bankruptcy or the threat of bankruptcy access to our funds may be restricted for a period of time and may also result in losses on those funds. If we fail to establish and maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting, our operating results and our ability to operate our business could be harmed. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires, among other things, that we establish and maintain internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, under the current rules of the SEC, beginning with the year ended June 30, 2008, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our independent registered public accounting firm is also required to report on our internal control over financing reporting. Our and our auditor’s testing may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses and render our internal control over financial reporting ineffective. We have incurred and we expect to continue to incur substantial accounting and auditing expense and expend significant management time in complying with the requirements of Section 404. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to investigations or sanctions by the SEC, The NASDAQ Stock Market, or NASDAQ, or other regulatory authorities or subject to litigation. To the extent any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting are identified in the future, we could be required to expend significant management time and financial resources to correct such material weaknesses or to respond to any resulting regulatory investigations or proceedings. Our current level of net income as reported on our financial statements could increase the likelihood of identifying a material weakness in our internal controls. The threshold for determining whether or not we have a material weakness in our internal controls and procedures as defined by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act is, in part, based on our net income. If our net income should remain at its current level or decrease, the materiality threshold associated with deficiencies discovered in our internal controls and procedures would remain relatively low or decrease, increasing our risk of identifying and having to disclose material control weaknesses, which negatively impact the price of our stock. Our principal offices and the facilities of our contract manufacturers are located near known earthquake fault zones, and the occurrence of an earthquake or other catastrophic disaster could damage our facilities or the facilities of our contract manufacturers, which could cause us to curtail our operations. Our principal offices, our disaster recovery site, and the facilities of one of our contract manufacturers are located in California near known earthquake fault zones and, therefore, are vulnerable to damage from earthquakes. We and our contract manufacturers are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, such as power loss, fire, floods and similar events. If any disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business could be seriously impaired. In addition, we may not have adequate insurance to cover our losses resulting from dis- 24 Table of Contents asters or other similar significant business interruptions. Any significant losses that are not recoverable under our insurance policies could seriously impair our business and financial condition. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our stock price in the past has been volatile, and may continue to be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance, and investors may not be able to resell shares at or above the price at which they purchased the shares. Our stock has been publicly traded for a relatively short period of time, having first begun trading in July 2007. During that time our stock price has fluctuated significantly, from a low of approximately $4 per share to a high of approximately $20 per share. At times the stock price has changed very quickly. For example, in January 2008, our stock price dropped from approximately $13 per share to approximately $6 per share, and as a result, we were named in the lawsuits described in Item 3. If investors purchase shares of our common stock, they may not be able to resell those shares at or above the price at which they purchased them. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • fluctuations in the overall stock market; • the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in these projections or our failure to meet these projections; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology companies generally, or those that sell enterprise communication products in particular; • changes in financial estimates by any securities analysts who follow our company, our failure to meet these estimates or failure of those analysts to initiate or maintain coverage of our stock; • ratings downgrades by any securities analysts who follow our company; • the public’s response to our press releases or other public announcements, including our filings with the SEC; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant technical innovations, customer wins or losses, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • introduction of technologies or product enhancements that reduce the need for our products; • market conditions or trends in our industry or the economy as a whole; • the loss of one or more key customers; • the loss of key personnel; • the development and sustainability of an active trading market for our common stock; • lawsuits threatened or filed against us and the outcome of such lawsuits; • future sales of our common stock by our officers, directors and significant stockholders; and • other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to these events. In addition, the stock markets, and in particular the Nasdaq Global Market, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many technology companies. Stock prices of many technology companies have fluctuated in a manner unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. In the past, stockholders have initiated securities class action litigation following declines in stock prices of technology companies. Our current litigation is, and any future litigation may, subject us to substantial costs, divert resources and the attention of management from our business, which could harm our business and operating results. 25 Table of Contents Future sales of outstanding shares of our common stock into the market in the future could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. Currently, more than 50% our shares are held by our venture capital investors. If these investors or any of our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock or the public market perceives that these sales may occur, the market price of our common stock could decline. All of our outstanding shares are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the federal securities laws, subject in some cases to the volume, manner of sale and other limitations under Rule 144 and 701. In addition, pursuant to our investor rights agreement, some of our early investors may require us to register their shares for public sale which could result in a substantial volume of shares being sold in a short period of time. Due to these factors, sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. Our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover that stockholders consider favorable and could also limit the market price of our stock. Our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and applicable provisions of Delaware law may make it more difficult for or prevent a third party from acquiring control of us without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions: • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; • limit who may call a special meeting of stockholders; • establish a classified board of directors, so that not all members of our board of directors may be elected at one time; • provide our board of directors with the ability to designate the terms of and issue a new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval; • require the approval of two-thirds of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws or repeal certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation; • allow a majority of the authorized number of directors to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws without stockholder approval; • do not permit cumulative voting in the election of our directors, which would otherwise permit less than a majority of stockholders to elect directors; and • set limitations on the removal of directors. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law generally limits our ability to engage in any business combination with certain persons who own 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or any of our associates or affiliates who at any time in the past three years have owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These provisions may have the effect of entrenching our management team and may deprive you of the opportunity to sell your shares to potential acquirers at a premium over prevailing prices. This potential inability to obtain a control premium could reduce the price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 