Risk Factors.” For example: • demand for leased containers and per diem rates could decline if the current global recession persists for an extended period of time and other macroeconomic market conditions affecting the container leasing industry worsen; • demand from container investors to purchase portfolios of leased containers at prices that are attractive to us could decline; • container shipping lines could decide to buy rather than lease a larger percentage of the containers they use; • demand for leased containers by container shipping lines could decrease due to consolidation of container shipping lines or other factors; • new container prices could increase or decrease unexpectedly; • shipping could be disrupted by a number of causes, including terrorist attacks and regional economic instability; 7 Table of Contents • we could lose key members of our senior management; • our lessees could default on their lease payment obligations to us; and • we face extensive competition in the container leasing industry. Any of the above risks could cause our revenue to decline or could otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. Our Operations Container Fleet Overview. The table below summarizes the composition of our fleet as of December 31, 2009 by the type of container: Dry VanContainers Percent ofTotalFleet SpecializedEquipment Percent ofTotal Fleet Total Percent ofTotal Fleet Managed Fleet in TEU 494,853 66.6 % 12,828 1.7 % 507,681 68.4 % Owned fleet in TEU 219,492 29.6 % 15,590 2.1 % 235,082 31.6 % Total 714,345 96.2 % 28,418 3.8 % 742,763 100.0 % Overview of Management Services. We lease, re-lease and dispose of containers and contract for the repair, repositioning and storage of our managed fleet. Our management agreements typically provide that our fee for managing a particular container is based upon the actual net operating revenue for each container, which is equal to the actual rental revenue for a container less the actual operating expenses directly attributable to that container. Management fees are collected monthly or quarterly, depending upon the agreement, and generally are not paid if net operating revenue is zero or less for a particular period. If operating expenses exceed revenue, the container investors are required to pay the excess or we may deduct the excess, including our management fee, from future net operating revenue. Under these agreements, we typically receive a commission for selling or otherwise disposing of containers for the container investor. Our management agreements generally require us to indemnify the container investor for liabilities or losses arising out of our breach of our obligations. In return, the container investor typically indemnifies us in our capacity as the manager of the container against breach by the container investor, sales taxes on commencement of the arrangement, withholding taxes on payments to the container investor under the management agreement and any other taxes, other than our income taxes, incurred with respect to the containers that are not otherwise included as operating expenses deductible from revenue. The term of our management agreements is generally 10 years from the acceptance date of containers under the agreement. Marketing and Operations. Our marketing and operations personnel are responsible for developing and maintaining relationships with our lessees, facilitating lease contracts and maintaining day-to-day coordination of operational issues. This coordination allows us to negotiate lease contracts that satisfy both our financial return requirements and our lessees’ operating needs. It also facilitates our awareness of lessees’ potential container shortages and their awareness of our available container inventories. We believe that our long-standing relationships with our lessees and the close communications we maintain with their operating staffs represent an important advantage for us. As of December 31, 2009, we employed 56 people within our marketing and operations group in eight countries. In addition, we have 12 independent agents in 12 other countries that help support our marketing and operations group. Overview of Our Leases. To meet the needs of our lessees and achieve a favorable utilization rate, we lease containers under three main types of leases: • Long-Term Leases. Our long-term leases specify the number of containers to be leased, the pick-up and drop-off locations, the applicable per diem rate and the contractual term. We typically enter into long- 8 Table of Contents term leases for a fixed term ranging from three to eight years, with five-year term leases being most common. Our long-term leases generally require our lessees to maintain all units on lease for the duration of the lease, which provides us with scheduled lease payments. Some of our long-term leases contain an early termination option and afford the lessee continuing supply and total interchangeability of containers, with the ability to redeliver containers if the lessee’s fleet requirements change. Our leases typically require the lessees to pay additional amounts pursuant to retroactive rate adjustments. These rate adjustments have not been material to our results of operations. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 75.7% of our on-lease fleet, as measured in TEUs, was under long-term leases. • Short-Term Leases. Short-term leases include both master interchange leases and customized short-term leases. Master interchange leases provide a master framework pursuant to which lessees can lease containers on an as-needed basis, and thus command a higher per diem rate than long-term leases and more flexible terms. The terms of master interchange leases are typically negotiated on an annual basis. Under our master interchange leases, lessees know in advance their per diem rates and drop-off locations, subject to monthly port limits. We also enter into other short-term leases that typically have a term of less than one year and are generally used for one-way leasing, typically for small quantities of containers. The terms of short-term leases are customized for the specific requirements of the lessee. Short-term leases are sometimes used to reposition containers to high-demand locations and accordingly may contain terms that provide incentives to lessees. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 21.5% of our on-lease fleet, as measured in TEUs, was under short-term leases. • Finance Leases. Finance leases provide our lessees with an alternative method to finance their container acquisitions. Finance leases are long-term in nature, typically ranging from three to five years, and require relatively little customer service attention. They ordinarily require fixed payments over a defined period and provide lessees with a right to purchase the subject containers for a nominal amount at the end of the lease term. Per diem rates under finance leases include an element of repayment of capital and, therefore, typically are higher than per diem rates charged under long-term leases. Finance leases require the container lessee to keep the containers on lease for the entire term of the lease. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 2.8% of our on-lease fleet, as measured in TEUs, was under finance leases. Our lease agreements contain business terms, such as the per diem rate, term and drop-off schedule, and the general terms and conditions detailing standard rights and obligations. The lease agreement requires lessees to pay the contractual per diem rate, depot charges, taxes and other charges when due, to maintain the containers in good condition and repair, to return the containers in good condition in accordance with the return condition set forth in the lease agreement, to use the containers in compliance with all applicable laws, and to pay us for the value of the container as determined by the lease agreement if the container is lost or destroyed. The default clause in our lease agreement gives us certain legal remedies in the event that a container lessee is in breach of the terms underlying the lease agreement. Our lease agreements contain an exclusion of warranties clause and require lessees to defend and indemnify us in most instances from third-party claims arising out of the lessee’s use, operation, possession or lease of the containers. Lessees are required to maintain physical damage and comprehensive general liability insurance and to indemnify us against loss with respect to the containers. We also maintain our own contingent physical damage and third-party liability insurance that covers our containers during both on-lease and off-lease periods. All of our insurance coverage is subject to annual deductible provisions and per occurrence and aggregate limits. Underwriting. We lease to container shipping lines, freight forwarders and other transportation companies that meet our credit criteria. Depending on credit limits, our underwriting and credit decisions are controlled by our senior executives or our credit committee. Our credit committee includes our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, and two other members of our senior management. Our credit policy sets different maximum exposure limits depending on our relationship and previous experience with each container lessee. Credit criteria may include, but are not limited to, trade route, country, social and political climate, assessments of net worth, 9 Table of Contents asset ownership, bank and trade credit references, credit bureau reports, including those from Dynamar, operational history and financial strength. Our credit committee monitors our lessees’ performance and our lease exposures on an ongoing basis and generally reviews all accounts with receivables over 90 days past due. Our underwriting processes are aided by the long payment experience we have with most of our lessees, our broad network of relationships in the shipping industry that provide current information about our lessees’ market reputations and our focus on collections. Other factors minimizing losses due to default by a lessee include our ability to achieve a high recovery rate for containers in default situations and our ability to efficiently re-lease recovered containers. Many of our lessees call on ports that allow us to seize the lessees’ ships or their fuel stocked at depots, or repossess our containers if the container lessee is in default under our container leases. We typically incur operating expenses such as repairs and repositioning when containers are recovered after a container lessee default. Re-leasing, Logistics Management and Depot Management. We believe that managing the period after termination of our containers’ first lease is one of the most important aspects of our business. Successful management of this period requires disciplined re-leasing capabilities, logistics management and depot management. • Re-leasing. Since our leases allow our lessees to return their containers, we typically lease a container several times during the time we manage it as part of our fleet. New containers can usually be leased with a limited sales and customer service infrastructure because initial leases for new containers typically cover large volumes of units and are fairly standardized transactions. Used containers, on the other hand, are typically leased in smaller transactions that are structured to accommodate pick-ups and returns in a variety of locations. Our utilization rates depend on our re-leasing abilities. Factors that affect our ability to re-lease used containers include the size of our lessee base, ability to anticipate lessee needs, our presence in relevant geographic locations and the level of service we provide our lessees. We believe that our global presence and long-standing relationships with over 260 container lessees as of December 31, 2009 provide us an advantage in re-leasing our containers relative to many of our smaller competitors. • Logistics Management. The shipping industry is characterized by large regional trade imbalances, with loaded containers generally flowing from export-oriented economies in Asia to North America and Western Europe. Because of these trade imbalances, container shipping lines have an incentive to return leased containers in relatively low export areas to avoid the cost of shipping empty containers. We have managed this structural imbalance of inventories with the following approach: • Limiting or prohibiting container returns to low-demand areas. In order to minimize our repositioning costs, our leases typically include a list of the specific locations to which containers may be returned, limitations on the number of containers that may be returned to low-demand locations, high drop-off charges for returning containers to low-demand locations or a combination of these provisions; • Taking advantage of the secondary resale market. In order to maintain a younger fleet age profile, we have aggressively sold our older containers when they are returned to low demand areas. • Developing country-specific leasing markets to utilize older containers in the portable storage market. In North America and Western Europe, we lease on a limited basis older containers for use as portable storage. • Seeking one-way lease opportunities to move containers from lower demand locations to higher demand locations. One-way leases may include incentives, such as free days, credits and damage waivers. The cost of offering these incentives is considerably less than the cost we would incur if we paid to reposition the containers. • Paying to reposition our containers to higher demand locations. At locations where our inventories remain high, despite the efforts described above, we will selectively choose to ship excess containers to locations with higher demand. 10 Table of Contents • Depot Management. As of December 31, 2009, we managed our container fleet through 248 independent container depot facilities located in 42 countries. Depot facilities are generally responsible for repairing containers when they are returned by lessees and for storing the containers while they are off-hire. Our operations group is responsible for managing our depot contracts and periodically visiting the depot facilities to conduct inventory and repair audits. We also supplement our internal operations group with the use of independent inspection agents. As of December 31, 2009 a large majority of our off-lease inventory was located at depots that are able to report notice of container activity and damage detail via electronic data interchange, or EDI. We use the industry standard, ISO 9897 Container Equipment Data Exchange messages, for EDI reporting. Most of the depot agency agreements follow a standard form and generally provide that the depot will be liable for loss or damage of containers and, in the event of loss or damage, will pay us the previously agreed loss value of the applicable containers. The agreements require the depots to maintain insurance against container loss or damage and we carry insurance to cover the risk when a depot’s insurance proves insufficient. Our container repair standards and processes are generally managed in accordance with standards and procedures specified by the Institute of International Container Lessors, or the IICL. The IICL establishes and documents the acceptable interchange condition for containers and the repair procedures required to return damaged containers to the acceptable interchange condition. At the time that containers are returned by lessees, the depot arranges an inspection of the containers to assess the repairs required to return the containers to acceptable IICL condition. As part of the inspection process, damages are categorized either as lessee damage or normal wear and tear. Items typically designated as lessee damage include dents in the container and debris left in the container, while items such as rust are typically designated as normal wear and tear. In general, lessees are responsible for the lessee damage portion of the repair costs and we are responsible for normal wear and tear. For an additional fee, we sometimes offer our lessees a container damage protection plan, pursuant to which we assume financial responsibility for repair costs up to a pre-negotiated amount. Investors. We have historically sold portfolios of leased containers to investment entities located in Germany, Switzerland, Austria and Japan. Although we have sold several portfolios containing large numbers of containers to an investment company in Switzerland, the investment entities that typically have purchased containers from us are funds with many underlying investors. In Germany, these funds are frequently referred to as “KG Funds” although similar types of funds exist in other countries. These funds are formed by investment arrangers who act as financial intermediaries between lessors of containers and other shipping assets. We are contacted on a regular basis by independent investment arrangers who are interested in assisting us with arranging sales of container portfolios. These independent investment arrangers will either seek out investments in these leased assets on behalf of an investment fund or a group of investors or will work with us to identify an investor or group of investors to invest in a pool of these leased assets. Our 80% owned subsidiary, CAIJ Ltd., acts as investment arranger for sales of containers by us in Japan and manages container leases for investors in Japan. Customer Concentration. Our customers include container lessees and container investors to whom we have sold container portfolios and for whom we manage containers. • Container Leasing Segment Concentration. Revenue from our ten largest container lessees represented 45.5% of the revenue from our container leasing segment for the year ended December 31, 2009, with revenue from our single largest container lessee accounting for 7.3%, or $4.1 million, of revenue from our container leasing segment during such period. This $4.1 million of revenue represented 6.3% of our total revenue for this period. The largest lessees of our owned fleet are often among the largest lessees of our managed fleet. The largest lessees of our managed fleet are responsible for a significant portion of the billings that generate our management fee revenue. 11 Table of Contents • Container Management Segment Concentration. A substantial majority of our container management segment revenue is derived from container investors associated with five different investment arrangers located in Germany, Switzerland, Austria and Japan. These arrangers are typically in the business of identifying and organizing investors for a variety of investment vehicles and compete with other institutions in these and other countries that perform similar functions. Container investors associated with five investment arrangers represented 89.3% of the Company’s container management revenue for the years ended December 31, 2009. Revenue from the two largest container investors, IGB Container GmbH & Co. KG (IGB) and P&R Equipment and Finance Corp. (P&R), represented 31.9%, or $3.0 million, and 21.4% or $2.0 million, respectively, of revenue from the Company’s container management segment during the year ended December 31, 2009. The combined revenue of $5.0 million associated with the two largest investment arrangers represented 7.6% of total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009. The willingness of investment arrangers to continue to form entities that invest in containers will depend upon a number of factors outside of our control, including the laws in the countries in which they are domiciled, the tax treatment of an investment or restrictions on foreign investments. If changes in tax laws in any country or other conditions make investments in containers less attractive, we will need to identify new container investors in other jurisdictions. If we are unable to identify new investors to offset decreases in demand, our gain on sale of container portfolios will decrease almost immediately, and management fee revenues will decrease if existing management agreements that terminate are not replaced by new management agreements. Proprietary Real-time Information Technology System. Our proprietary real-time information technology system tracks all of our containers individually by container number, provides design specifications for the containers, tracks on-lease and off-lease transactions, matches each on-lease container to a lease contract and each off-lease container to a depot contract, maintains the major terms for each lease contract, tracks accumulated depreciation, calculates the monthly bill for each container lessee and tracks and bills for container repairs. Most of our depot activity is reported electronically, which enables us to prepare container lessee bills and calculate financial reporting information more efficiently. In addition, our system allows our lessees to conduct business with us through the Internet. This allows our lessees to review our container inventories, monitor their on-lease information, view design specifications and receive information on maintenance and repair. Many of our lessees receive billing and on- and off- lease information from us electronically. Our Suppliers. We purchase most of our containers in China from manufacturers that have met our qualification requirements. We are currently not dependent on any single current manufacturer. We have long-standing relationships with all of our major container suppliers. Our technical services personnel review the designs for our containers and periodically audit the production facilities of our suppliers. In addition, we contract with independent third-party inspectors to monitor production at factories while our containers are being produced. This provides an extra layer of quality control and helps ensure that our containers are produced in accordance with our specifications. Our Competition We compete primarily with other container leasing companies, including both larger and smaller lessors. We also compete with bank leasing companies offering long-term operating leases, finance leases and container shipping lines, which sometimes lease their excess container inventory. Other participants in the shipping industry, such as container manufacturers, may also decide to enter the container leasing business. It is common for container shipping lines to utilize several leasing companies to meet their container needs and to minimize reliance on individual leasing companies. Our competitors compete with us in many ways, including pricing, lease flexibility, supply reliability, customer service and the quality and condition of containers. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources than we do, or are affiliates of larger companies. We emphasize the quality of our fleet, supply 12 Table of Contents reliability and high level of customer service to our container lessees. We focus on ensuring adequate container availability in high-demand locations, dedicate large portions of our organization to building relationships with lessees, maintain close day-to-day coordination with lessees and have developed a proprietary information technology system that allows our lessees to access real-time information about their containers. Environmental Matters We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the discharge of pollutants to air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. We could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and third-party claims for property or natural resource damage and personal injury, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws and regulations in connection with our or our lessees’ current or historical operations. Under some environmental laws in the United States and certain other countries, the owner or operator of a container may be liable for environmental damage, cleanup or other costs in the event of a spill or discharge of material from the container without regard to the fault of the owner or operator. While we typically maintain liability insurance coverage and typically require our lessees to provide us with indemnity against certain losses, the insurance coverage is subject to large deductibles, limits on maximum coverage and significant exclusions and may not be sufficient or available to protect against any or all liabilities and such indemnities may not cover or be sufficient to protect us against losses arising from environmental damage. Regulation We may be subject to regulations promulgated in various countries, including the United States, seeking to protect the integrity of international commerce and prevent the use of containers for international terrorism or other illicit activities. For example, the Container Security Initiative, the Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism and Operation Safe Commerce are among the programs administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security that are designed to enhance security for cargo moving throughout the international transportation system by identifying existing vulnerabilities in the supply chain and developing improved methods for ensuring the security of containerized cargo entering and leaving the United States. Moreover, the International Convention for Safe Containers, 1972, as amended, adopted by the International Maritime Organization, applies to new and existing containers and seeks to maintain a high level of safety of human life in the transport and handling of containers by providing uniform international safety regulations. As these regulations develop and change, we may incur increased compliance costs due to the acquisition of new, compliant containers and/or the adaptation of existing containers to meet any new requirements imposed by such regulations. Employees As of December 31, 2009, we employed approximately 83 employees worldwide. We are not a party to any collective bargaining agreements. We believe that relations with our employees are good. 13 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business and the Container Leasing Industry Current economic conditions may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. The United States and foreign economies are in various stages of recovery from the 2009 economic recession. The capital markets are currently experiencing a high level of volatility and liquidity has become constrained across the debt and equity markets. In addition, recent disruptions in national and international credit markets have led to a scarcity of credit, tighter lending standards and higher interest rates on business loans. We increased our allowance for doubtful accounts in 2009 to recognize the increased credit risk brought about by the current economic environment. A prolonged economic downturn or a continuing scarcity of credit could further adversely affect the financial condition and levels of business activity of our customers. This may in turn have a corresponding negative impact on our future operating results as some of our customers may suffer business failures that may cause us to further incur higher bad debt expense in the future while others may react to worsening conditions by reducing their level of investment in container portfolios or reducing their leasing of containers from us. In addition, worsening economic conditions may impair our ability to attract new customers. Our average fleet utilization rate has declined from 94.2% during the third quarter of 2008 to 81.9% during the fourth quarter of 2009. If any of these economic circumstances remain in effect for an extended period of time, there could be a material adverse effect on our future financial results. The demand for leased containers depends on many political, economic and other factors beyond our control. Substantially all of our revenue comes from activities related to the leasing of containers. Our ability to continue successfully leasing containers to container shipping lines, earning management fees on leased containers and attracting container investors to purchase container portfolios from us depends in part upon the continued demand for leased containers. The demand for containers is affected by numerous factors. Demand for containers depends largely on the rate of world trade and economic growth, with consumer demand being one of the most critical factors affecting this growth. Current economic downturns in one or more countries, particularly in the United States and other countries with consumer-oriented economies, have resulted in a reduction in world containerized trade growth or in demand by container shipping lines for leased containers. Most of the container investor programs into which we sell container portfolios employ a certain amount of debt in order to increase investor equity returns. The uncertainty on future demand for containers from container shipping lines, the potential of lower than expected performance of existing investments in container funds and the more difficulty in container investors being able to access debt for future investment programs, increases the potential that we may not be able to sell containers to investor programs in the future. In such case, our revenue, net income and cash flow will be lower, which will limit the level of growth in our operating fleet that we might otherwise be able to attain. The current economic recession could result in a further decline in the future demand for shipping containers by our customers and could lead to an increase the number of containers returned to us, reduce our container rental revenue, further reduce utilization of our fleet, increase our operating expenses (such as storage, bad debt and repositioning costs) and have an adverse effect on our future financial performance. We cannot predict the degree to which the current economic recession in the U.S. and foreign economies will have on our financial condition and our future operating results. Much of our leasing business involves shipments of goods exported from Asia. From time to time, there have been economic disruptions, health scares (such as SARS, H1N1 flu ), financial turmoil, natural disasters and political instability in Asia. If these events were to occur in the future, they could adversely affect our container lessees and the general demand for shipping and lead to reduced demand for leased containers or otherwise 14 Table of Contents adversely affect us. Demand for containers originating from China and other Asian economies has been lower since the beginning of September 2008 and is expected to remain weak until world economic growth increases. Other general factors affecting demand for leased containers, utilization and per diem rates include the following: • available supply and prices of new and used containers; • economic conditions and competitive pressures in the shipping industry; • shifting trends and patterns of cargo traffic; • the availability and terms of container financing; • fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency values; • overcapacity or undercapacity of the container manufacturers; • the lead times required to purchase containers; • the number of containers purchased by competitors and container lessees; • container ship fleet overcapacity or undercapacity; • increased repositioning by container shipping lines of their own empty containers to higher-demand locations in lieu of leasing containers from us; • consolidation or withdrawal of individual container lessees in the container shipping industry; • import/export tariffs and restrictions; • customs procedures, foreign exchange controls and other governmental regulations; • natural disasters that are severe enough to affect local and global economies; • political and economic factors; and • currency exchange rates. All of these factors are inherently unpredictable and beyond our control. These factors will vary over time, often quickly and unpredictably, and any change in one or more of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Many of these factors also influence the decision by our customers to lease or buy containers. Should one or more of these factors influence our customers to buy a larger percentage of the containers they operate, our utilization rate would decrease, resulting in decreased revenue and increased storage and repositioning costs. Our operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future. Our revenue comes primarily from the leasing of containers owned by us, management fees earned on containers owned by container investors and gain on sale of container portfolios to container investors. Historically, our annual and quarterly total revenues, net income and cash flows have fluctuated significantly as a result of fluctuations in our gain on sale of container portfolios. Selling containers to container investors has very little associated incremental expense, which means that our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly depending upon the amount of gain on sale of container portfolios, if any, we realize in a quarter. Due to seasonal increased demand for containers in the several months leading up to the holiday season in the United States and Europe and higher demand for purchasing containers by container investors toward the end of the calendar year, a higher proportion of our container sales to investors has typically occurred in the second half of each calendar year. Although by comparison our container rental revenue and management fee revenue have historically fluctuated much less than our gain on sale of container portfolios, container rental revenue and management revenue may also fluctuate significantly in future periods based upon the level of demand by container shipping lines for leased containers, our ability to maintain a high utilization rate of containers in our total fleet, changes in per diem rates for leases and fluctuations in operating expenses. 15 Table of Contents A large part of our historical revenue comes from gain on sale of container portfolios and our container sale activities in the future may result in lower gains or losses on sales of containers. Our revenue from gain on sale of container portfolios depends on our ability to make a profit on containers that we purchase and then resell to container investors. We typically enter into firm purchase orders for containers before we begin finding lessees for the containers, and the time necessary to lease these containers may be much longer than we anticipate. The price that a container investor is willing to pay for a portfolio of containers depends on a number of factors, including the historical and future expected cash flows from the portfolio to the container investor, the credit ratings of the lessees, the mix of short-term and long-term leases, the number of TEUs in the portfolio, the timing of the sale and alternative investment opportunities available to the container investor. If any of these factors changes unexpectedly during the period between the date of our purchase order to the date a container investor purchases the container from us, we may recognize a lower gain on sale of the containers to investors, sell them to container investors at a loss or retain them as part of our owned fleet. The capital markets are currently experiencing a high level of volatility and liquidity has become constrained across the debt and equity markets. Most of the container investor programs into which we sell container portfolios employ a certain amount of debt in order to increase investor equity returns. The uncertainty on future demand for containers from container shipping lines, the potential of lower than expected performance of existing investments in container funds and the reduced availability of credit for future investment programs, increases the potential that the Company may not be able to sell container portfolios in the future. In such case, our revenue, net income and cash flow will be adversely affected. Per diem rates for our leased containers may decrease, which would have a negative effect on our business and results of operations. Per diem rates for our leased containers depend on a large number of factors, including the following: • the type and length of the lease; • embedded residual assumptions; • the type and age of the container; • the number of new containers available for lease by our competitors; • the location of the container being leased; and • the price of new containers. Because steel is the major component used in the construction of new containers, the price of new containers and per diem rates on new containers are highly correlated with the price of raw steel. In the late 1990s, new container prices and per diem rates declined because of, among other factors, a drop in worldwide steel prices and a shift in container manufacturing from Taiwan and Korea to areas in mainland China with lower labor costs. From 2003 to 2004, and again in the second half of 2006, container prices and leasing rates increased partially due to an increase in worldwide steel prices. Similarly, container prices during the first nine months of 2008 rose from their 2007 levels partially due to higher commodity prices. There has been a decrease in steel prices since the beginning of September 2008 and it is believed there has been reduced demand for newly manufactured containers by our customers and competitors. In the first quarter of 2010 container prices have begun increasing due to limited production by container manufacturers. We cannot predict container prices in the future. If newly manufactured container prices decline, we may need to lease the containers at low return rates or at a loss. Per diem rates may be negatively impacted by the entrance of new leasing companies, overproduction of new containers by manufacturers and over-buying of containers by container shipping lines and leasing competitors. For example, during 2001 and again in 2005, overproduction of new containers, coupled with a 16 Table of Contents build-up of container inventories in Asia by leasing companies and container shipping lines, led to decreasing per diem rates and utilization rates. In 2007, competitive pressures also reduced per diem rates. In the event that the container shipping industry were to be characterized by overcapacity in the future, or if available supply of containers were to increase significantly as a result of, among other factors, new companies entering the business of leasing and selling containers, both utilization and per diem rates may decrease, adversely affecting our revenue and operating results. A reduction in the willingness of container investors to have us manage their containers could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. A significant percentage of our revenue is attributable to management fees earned on services related to the leasing of containers owned by container investors. This revenue has very low direct operating costs associated with it. Accordingly, fluctuations in our management fee revenue in any period will have a significant impact on our profitability in that period. If we fail to meet performance requirements contained in our management agreements, container investors may seek to terminate these agreements. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company did not meet certain performance criteria in several of its container management contracts. The Company has experienced nonperformance due to the reduced income resulting from the decline in world trade and global recession and its impact on equipment utilization. Total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009 would have been approximately 4.6% lower if such container management had been terminated for not meeting the agreed upon performance levels set forth therein. If one or more container investors terminated their management agreements, our management revenue would be adversely affected and our ability to sell container portfolios to investors could be severely impaired. However, no container investor has notified the Company of its decision to terminate its management agreement and management does not currently expect any container investor to terminate its agreement. Moreover, our ability to continue to attract new management contracts depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to lease containers on attractive lease terms and to efficiently manage the repositioning and disposition of containers. In the event container investors perceive another container leasing company as better able to provide them with a stable and attractive rate of return, existing contracts may not be renewed, and we may lose management contract opportunities in the future, which could affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Please see risk factor “We derive a substantial portion of our revenue for each of our container management and container leasing segments from a limited number of container investors and container lessees, respectively. The loss of, or reduction in business by, any of these container investors or container lessees could result in a significant loss of revenue and cash flow.” on page 20. Gains and losses associated with the disposition of used equipment may fluctuate and adversely affect our results of operations. We regularly sell used, older containers upon lease expiration. The residual values of these containers therefore affect our profitability. The volatility of the residual values of such containers may be significant. These values depend upon, among other factors, raw steel prices, applicable maintenance standards, refurbishment needs, comparable new container costs, used container availability, used container demand, inflation rates, market conditions, materials and labor costs and equipment obsolescence. Most of these factors are outside of our control. Containers are typically sold if it is in the best interest of the owner to do so after taking into consideration earnings prospects, book value, remaining useful life, repair condition, suitability for leasing or other uses and the prevailing local sales price for containers. Gains or losses on the disposition of used container equipment and the sales fees earned on the disposition of managed containers will also fluctuate and may be significant if we sell large quantities of used containers. 17 Table of Contents The U.S. and foreign economies have been in various stages of recovery from the economic recession in 2009, which increases the potential of increased future inventories of used equipment by leasing companies and shipping lines in depots. Such an increase in inventory of idle equipment increases the potential of reducing the prices attained for disposition of used containers. As a result, the Company may need to dispose of equipment at a loss or not be able to sell equipment, which would increase our storage and repositioning expenses. We may incur significant costs to reposition containers. When lessees return containers to locations where supply exceeds demand, we routinely reposition containers to higher demand areas. Repositioning expenses vary depending on geographic location, distance, freight rates and other factors, and may not be fully covered by drop-off charges collected from the last lessee of the containers or pick-up charges paid by the new lessee. We seek to limit the number of containers that can be returned and impose surcharges on containers returned to areas where demand for such containers is not expected to be strong. However, market conditions may not enable us to continue such practices. In addition, we may not accurately anticipate which port locations will be characterized by high or low demand in the future, and our current contracts will not protect us from repositioning costs if ports that we expect to be high-demand ports turn out to be low-demand ports at the time leases expire. Lessee defaults may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition by decreasing revenue and increasing storage, repositioning, collection and recovery expenses. Our containers are leased to numerous container lessees. Lessees are required to pay rent and indemnify us for damage to or loss of containers. Lessees may default in paying rent and performing other obligations under their leases. A delay or diminution in amounts received under the leases (including leases on our managed containers), or a default in the performance of maintenance or other lessee obligations under the leases could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make payments on our debt. Our cash flows from containers, principally container rental revenue, management fee revenue, gain on sale of container portfolios, gain on disposition of used equipment and commissions earned on the sale of containers on behalf of container investors, are affected significantly by the ability to collect payments under leases and the ability to replace cash flows from terminating leases by re-leasing or selling containers on favorable terms. All of these factors are subject to external economic conditions and the performance by lessees and service providers that are not within our control. When lessees default, we may fail to recover all of our containers and the containers we do recover may be returned to locations where we will not be able to quickly re-lease or sell them on commercially acceptable terms. We may have to reposition these containers to other places where we can re-lease or sell them, which could be expensive depending on the locations and distances involved. Following repositioning, we may need to repair the containers and pay container depots for storage until the containers are re-leased. For our owned containers these costs will directly reduce our income before taxes and for our managed containers, lessee defaults will increase operating expenses, and thus reduce our management fee revenue. We have seen an increase in the number of smaller regional shipping lines defaulting on their lease agreements since the second quarter of 2008. The Company is recovering equipment and incurring expenses for its account and for the account of container investors related to these customer defaults. We maintain insurance to reimburse the Company and container investors for such customer defaults. The insurance agreements are subject to deductibles of up to $3.0 million per occurrence and have significant exclusions and, therefore, may not be sufficient to prevent us from suffering material losses. Additionally, the increase in claims made by the Company under such insurance agreements may result in such insurance not being available to us in the future on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. 18 Table of Contents Our level of indebtedness reduces our financial flexibility and could impede our ability to operate. We intend to borrow additional amounts under our senior secured credit facility and other debt facilities to purchase containers and make acquisitions and other investments. We expect that we will maintain a significant amount of indebtedness on an ongoing basis. All of our borrowings under our senior secured credit facility are due and payable on September 25, 2012 and there is no assurance that we will be able to refinance our outstanding indebtedness, or if refinancing is available, that it can be obtained on terms that we can afford. The capital markets are currently experiencing a high degree of volatility. To the extent that volatility in the capital markets continues, the Company’s access to capital may become limited and its borrowing costs may materially increase. Our senior secured credit facility requires us to pay a variable rate of interest, which will increase or decrease based on variations in certain financial indexes, and fluctuations in interest rates can significantly decrease our profits. We do not have any material amounts of hedge or similar contracts that would protect us against changes in interest rates. The amount of our indebtedness could have important consequences for you, including the following: • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for operations, future business opportunities and other purposes; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations, and any failure to comply with such obligations, including financial and other restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default under the agreements governing such indebtedness, which could lead to, among other things, an acceleration of our indebtedness or foreclosure on the assets securing our indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition; • limiting our ability to borrow additional funds, or to sell assets to raise funds, if needed, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes; and • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including changes in interest rates. Our debt and capital lease obligations were $182.4 million as of December 31, 2009. We may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service and repay our debt and related obligations and have sufficient funds left over to achieve or sustain profitability in our operations, meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs or compete successfully in our industry. We may incur future asset impairment charges. An asset impairment charge may result from the occurrence of unexpected adverse events or management decisions that impact our estimates of expected cash flows generated from our long-lived assets. We regularly review our long-lived assets for impairment, including when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. We may be required to recognize asset impairment charges in the future as a result of reductions in demand for specific container types, a weak economic environment, challenging market conditions, events related to particular customers or asset type, or as a result of asset or portfolio sale decisions by management. The container investors that purchase containers from us are located in four countries and a change in the conditions and laws in any of these countries could significantly reduce demand by container investors to purchase containers. The container investors that have historically purchased containers from us are located in Germany, Switzerland, Austria and Japan. The willingness of these investors to continue to purchase containers from us will depend upon a number of factors outside of our control, including the laws in the countries in which they are 19 Table of Contents domiciled, the tax treatment of an investment and restrictions on foreign investments. If a change in tax laws or other conditions makes investments in containers less attractive, we will need to identify new container investors. The process of identifying new container investors and selling containers to them could be lengthy and we may not be able to find new container investors in these circumstances, which would result in a substantial reduction in the amount of gain on sale of container portfolios and cash flow. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue for each of our container management and container leasing segments from a limited number of container investors and container lessees, respectively. The loss of, or reduction in business by, any of these container investors or container lessees could result in a significant loss of revenue and cash flow. We have derived, and believe that we will continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenue and cash flow from a limited number of container investors and container lessees. Our business comprises two reportable segments for financial statement reporting purposes: container management and container leasing. The operating results of each segment and details of our revenues by for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 are summarized in Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements included in this filing. Revenue for our container management segment comes primarily from container investors that purchase portfolios of containers and then pay us to manage the containers for them. Revenue for our container leasing segment comes primarily from container lessees that lease containers from our owned fleet. Revenue from our ten largest container lessees represented 45.5% of the revenue from our container leasing segment for the year ended December 31, 2009, with revenue from our single largest container lessee accounting for 7.3%, or $4.1 million, of revenue from our container leasing segment during such period. This $4.1 million of revenue represented 6.3% of our total revenue for this period. We do not distinguish between our owned fleet and our managed fleet when we enter into leases with container shipping lines. Accordingly, the largest lessees of our owned fleet are typically among the largest lessees of our managed fleet, and our management fee revenue is based in part on the number of managed containers on lease to container lessees. As a result, the loss of, or default by, any of our largest container lessees could have a material adverse effect on the revenue for both our container management segment and our container leasing segment. In addition, many of the management agreements with our container investors contain performance criteria, such as minimum per diem net income per container or minimum utilization rates for the pool of containers owned by the container investors. In the event we fail to meet one or more of these criteria in a management agreement, the independent investment arrangers who typically act on behalf of container investors may have the right to terminate the management agreement. In the year ended December 31, 2009, container investors associated with five investment arrangers represented 89.3% of our container management revenue. If we were to not perform our obligations as a container manager under the management agreements controlled by an independent investment arranger, the independent investment manager could decide to terminate all of the management agreements under which we have not performed our obligations. Managed containers associated with our single largest container investor accounted for 31.9%, or $3.0 million, of revenue from our container management segment during the year ended December 31, 2009. This $3.0 million of revenue represented 4.6% of our total revenue for this period. The termination of the management agreements under the control of a single investment arranger or the loss of our largest container investor as a management services customer could have a material adverse effect on the revenue for our container management segment. Consolidation and concentration in the container shipping industry could decrease the demand for leased containers. We primarily lease containers to container shipping lines. We believe container shipping lines require two TEUs of available containers for every TEU of capacity on their container ships. The container shipping lines have historically relied on a large number of leased containers to satisfy their needs. Consolidation of major container shipping lines could create efficiencies and decrease the demand that container shipping lines have for 20 Table of Contents leased containers because they may be able to fulfill a larger portion of their needs through their owned container fleets. It could also create concentration of credit risk if the number of our container lessees decreases due to consolidation. Additionally, large container shipping lines with significant resources could choose to manufacture their own containers, which would decrease their demand for leased containers and could have an adverse impact on our business. As we increase the number of containers in our owned fleet, we will be subject to significantly greater ownership risks. The number of containers in our owned fleet fluctuates over time as we purchase new containers and sell containers to container investors or into the secondary resale market. As part of our strategy, we plan to increase both the number of owned containers as well as the number of managed containers in our fleet. We believe we will be able to find container investors to purchase the desired portion of the new containers that we purchase and lease. If we are unable to locate container investors to purchase these containers, we will operate the containers as part of our owned fleet. Ownership of containers entails greater risk than management of containers for container investors, because as we increase the number of containers in our owned fleet, we are subject to an increased level of risk from loss or damage to equipment, financing costs, changes in per diem rates, re-leasing risk, changes in utilization rates, lessee defaults, repositioning costs, storage expenses, impairment charges and changes in sales price upon disposition of containers. As we increase the number of containers in our owned fleet we will have significantly more capital at risk and may not be able to satisfy the future capital requirements of our container management business. As we increase the number of containers in our owned fleet, either as a result of planned growth in our owned fleet or as a result of our inability to sell containers to container investors, we may need to maintain higher debt balances which may adversely affect our return on equity and reduce our capital resources, including our ability to borrow money to continue expanding our managed fleet. Future borrowings may not be available under our senior secured credit facility or we may not be able to refinance the facility, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We may need to raise additional debt or equity capital in order to fund our business, expand our sales activities and/or respond to competitive pressures. We may not have access to the capital resources we desire or need to fund our business. These effects, among others, may reduce our profitability and adversely affect our plans to continue the expansion of the container management portion of our business. Our container lessees prefer newer containers, so to stay competitive we must continually add new containers to our fleet. If we are unable to make necessary capital expenditures, our fleet of containers may be less desirable to our container lessees and our profitability could suffer. Changes in market price, availability or transportation costs of containers could adversely affect our ability to maintain our supply of containers. We currently purchase almost all of our containers from manufacturers based in China. If it were to become more expensive for us to procure containers in China or to transport these containers at a low cost from China to the locations where they are needed by our container lessees because of changes in exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and Chinese Yuan, further consolidation among container suppliers, increased tariffs imposed by the United States or other governments or for any other reason, we may have to seek alternative sources of supply. While we are not currently dependent on any single current manufacturer of our containers, we may not be able to make alternative arrangements quickly enough to meet our container needs, and the alternative arrangements may increase our costs. The availability of containers depends significantly on the availability and cost of steel in China. If a shortage of steel develops either in China or worldwide, container manufacturers may not be able to meet our demand for new containers which would limit our ability to add new containers to our fleet. 21 Table of Contents Terrorist attacks, the threat of such attacks, piracy or the outbreak of war and hostilities could negatively impact our operations and profitability and may expose us to liability. Terrorist attacks and the threat of such attacks have contributed to economic instability in the United States and elsewhere, and further acts or threats of terrorism, violence, war or hostilities could similarly affect world trade and the industries in which we and our container lessees operate. For example, worldwide containerized trade dramatically decreased in the immediate aftermath of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in the United States, which affected demand for leased containers. In addition, terrorist attacks, threats of terrorism, piracy or threats thereof, violence, war or hostilities may directly impact ports, depots, our facilities or those of our suppliers or container lessees and could impact our sales and our supply chain. A severe disruption to the worldwide ports system and flow of goods could result in a reduction in the level of international trade and lower demand for our containers. We maintain liability insurance that we believe would apply to claims arising from a terrorist attack, and our lease agreements require our lessees to indemnify us for all costs, liabilities and expenses arising out of the use of our containers, including property damage to the containers, damage to third-party property and personal injury. However, our lessees may not have adequate resources to honor their indemnity obligations and our insurance coverage is subject to large deductibles, a $15.0 million limit on coverage and significant exclusions. Accordingly, we may not be protected from liability (and expenses in defending against claims of liability) arising from a terrorist attack. Our senior executives are critical to the success of our business and our inability to retain them or recruit new personnel could adversely affect our business. Most of our senior executives and other management-level employees have over ten years of industry experience. We rely on this knowledge and experience in our strategic planning and in our day-to-day business operations. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to retain our senior management, the loss of one or more of whom could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success also depends on our ability to retain our experienced sales force and technical personnel as well as recruiting new skilled sales, marketing and technical personnel. Competition for these individuals in our industry is intense and we may not be able to successfully recruit, train or retain qualified personnel. If we fail to retain and recruit the necessary personnel, our business and our ability to obtain new container lessees and provide acceptable levels of customer service could suffer. We rely on our proprietary information technology system to conduct our business. If this system fails to adequately perform its functions, or if we experience an interruption in its operation, our business, results of operations and financial prospects could be adversely affected. The efficient operation of our business is highly dependent on our proprietary information technology system. We rely on our system to track transactions, such as repair and depot charges and changes to book value, and movements associated with each of our owned or managed containers. We use the information provided by this system in our day-to-day business decisions in order to effectively manage our lease portfolio and improve customer service. We also rely on it for the accurate tracking of the performance of our managed fleet for each container investor. The failure of our system to perform as we expect could disrupt our business, adversely affect our results of operations and cause our relationships with lessees and container investors to suffer. In addition, our information technology system is vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond our control, including fire, natural disasters, power loss and computer systems failures and viruses. Any such interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial prospects. We will require a significant amount of cash to service and repay our outstanding indebtedness and our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and repay our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. Based on the balance of our long-term indebtedness as of 22 Table of Contents December 31, 2009, we will require approximately $7.3 million to service our current indebtedness in the year ending December 31, 2010. It is possible that: • our business will not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service and repay our debt and to fund working capital requirements and planned capital expenditures; • future borrowings will not be available under our current or future credit facilities in an amount sufficient to enable us to refinance our debt; or • we will not be able to refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our senior secured credit facility imposes, and the terms of any future indebtedness may impose, significant operating, financial and other restrictions on us and our subsidiaries. Restrictions imposed by our senior secured credit facility will limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • pay dividends on or redeem or repurchase our stock; • enter into new lines of business; • issue capital stock of our subsidiaries; • make loans and certain types of investments; • create liens; • sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies; • enter into certain transactions with stockholders and affiliates; and • restrict dividends, distributions or other payments from our subsidiaries. These restrictions could adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs and pursue available business opportunities. A breach of any of these restrictions, including breach of financial covenants, could result in a default in respect of the related indebtedness. If a default occurs, the relevant lenders could elect to declare the indebtedness, together with accrued interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable and proceed against any collateral securing that indebtedness, which will constitute substantially all of our container assets. We face extensive competition in the container leasing industry. We may be unable to compete favorably in the highly competitive container leasing and container management businesses. We compete with a number of major leasing companies, many smaller lessors, manufacturers of container equipment, companies and financial institutions offering finance leases, promoters of container ownership and leasing as a tax-efficient investment, container shipping lines, which sometimes lease their excess container stocks, and suppliers of alternative types of containers for freight transport. Some of these competitors have greater financial resources and access to capital than we do. Additionally, some of these competitors may have large, underutilized inventories of containers, which could lead to significant downward pressure on per diem rates, margins and prices of containers. Competition among container leasing companies depends upon many factors, including, among others, per diem rates; lease terms, including lease duration, drop-off restrictions and repair provisions; customer service; and the location, availability, quality and individual characteristics of containers. New entrants into the leasing business have been attracted by the high rate of containerized trade growth in recent years. New entrants may be willing to offer pricing or other terms that we are unwilling or unable to match. As a result, we may not be able to maintain a high utilization rate or achieve our growth plans. 23 Table of Contents The international nature of our business exposes us to numerous risks. Our ability to enforce lessees’ obligations will be subject to applicable law in the jurisdiction in which enforcement is sought. As containers are predominantly located on international waterways, it is not possible to predict, with any degree of certainty, the jurisdictions in which enforcement proceedings may be commenced. For example, repossession from defaulting lessees may be difficult and more expensive in jurisdictions in which laws do not confer the same security interests and rights to creditors and lessors as those in the United States and in jurisdictions where recovery of containers from defaulting lessees is more cumbersome. As a result, the relative success and expedience of enforcement proceedings with respect to containers in various jurisdictions cannot be predicted. We are also subject to risks inherent in conducting business across national boundaries, any one of which could adversely impact our business. These risks include: • regional or local economic downturns; • changes in governmental policy or regulation; • restrictions on the transfer of funds into or out of the country; • import and export duties and quotas; • domestic and foreign customs and tariffs; • international incidents; • war, hostilities, terrorist attacks, a piracy, or the threat of any of these events; • government instability; • nationalization of foreign assets; • government protectionism; • compliance with export controls, including those of the U.S. Department of Commerce; • compliance with import procedures and controls, including those of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security; • consequences from changes in tax laws, including tax laws pertaining to the container investors; • potential liabilities relating to foreign withholding taxes; • labor or other disruptions at key ports; • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; and • restrictions on our ability to own or operate subsidiaries, make investments or acquire new businesses in these jurisdictions. One or more of these factors could impair our current or future international operations and, as a result, harm our overall business. We may incur costs associated with new security regulations, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to regulations promulgated in various countries, including the United States, seeking to protect the integrity of international commerce and prevent the use of containers for international terrorism or other illicit activities. For example, the Container Security Initiative, the Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism and Operation Safe Commerce are among the programs administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security that are designed to enhance security for cargo moving throughout the international 24 Table of Contents transportation system by identifying existing vulnerabilities in the supply chain and developing improved methods for ensuring the security of containerized cargo entering and leaving the United States. Moreover, the International Convention for Safe Containers, 1972 (CSC), as amended, adopted by the International Maritime Organization, applies to new and existing containers and seeks to maintain a high level of safety of human life in the transport and handling of containers by providing uniform international safety regulations. As these regulations develop and change, we may incur compliance costs due to the acquisition of new, compliant containers and/or the adaptation of existing containers to meet new requirements imposed by such regulations. Additionally, certain companies are currently developing or may in the future develop products designed to enhance the security of containers transported in international commerce. Regardless of the existence of current or future government regulations mandating the safety standards of intermodal shipping containers, our competitors may adopt such products or our container lessees may require that we adopt such products. In responding to such market pressures, we may incur increased costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in numerous tax jurisdictions. A taxing authority within any of these jurisdictions may challenge our operating structure which could result in additional taxes, interest and penalties that could materially impact our future financial results. We have implemented a number of structural changes with respect to our international subsidiaries in an effort to reduce our income tax obligations in countries in which we operate. There can be no assurance that our tax structure and the amount of taxes we pay in any of these countries will not be challenged by the taxing authorities in these countries. If the tax authorities challenge our tax structure or the amount of taxes paid, we could incur substantial expenses associated with defending our tax position as well as expenses associated with the payment of any additional taxes, penalties and interest that may be imposed on us. The payment of these amounts could have an adverse material effect on our business and results of operations. Environmental liability may adversely affect our business and financial condition. We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the discharge of pollutants to air, ground and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. We could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and costs arising out of third-party claims for property or natural resource damage and personal injury, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws and regulations in connection with our or our lessees’ current or historical operations. Under some environmental laws in the United States and certain other countries, the owner or operator of a container may be liable for environmental damage, cleanup or other costs in the event of a spill or discharge of material from the container without regard to the fault of the owner or operator. While we typically maintain liability insurance and typically require lessees to provide us with indemnity against certain losses, the insurance coverage may not be sufficient, or available, to protect against any or all liabilities and such indemnities may not be sufficient to protect us against losses arising from environmental damage. Moreover, our lessees may not have adequate resources, or may refuse to honor their indemnity obligations and our insurance coverage is subject to large deductibles, coverage limits and significant exclusions. We may face litigation involving our management of containers for container investors. We manage containers for container investors under management agreements that are negotiated with each container investor. We make no assurances to container investors that they will make any amount of profit on their investment or that our management activities will result in any particular level of income or return of their initial capital. We believe that as the number of containers that we manage for container investors increases, there is a possibility that we may be drawn into litigation relating to the investments. Although our management agreements contain contractual protections and indemnities that are designed to limit our exposure to such litigation, such provisions may not be effective and we may be subject to a significant loss in a successful litigation by a container investor. 25 Table of Contents Our 80 percent ownership in CAIJ Ltd, a container investment arranger and advisor focused on arranging container investments with Japanese investors, may subject us to material litigation risks and damage to our professional reputation as a result of litigation allegations and negative publicity. CAIJ Ltd (CAIJ) was formed and began operation in 2007 for the purpose of arranging investments in our containers with Japanese investors. CAIJ arranged $5.8 million and $14.6 million of investments in container funds in 2009 and 2008, respectively, and we expect that CAIJ will arrange more container investments in the future. Because we are the seller and manager of the containers that will be sold to investors on whose behalf CAIJ acts as an arranger and advisor, there is an inherent conflict of interest between us and CAIJ. We disclose this inherent conflict of interest to container investors prior to any sale to them, but we do not provide them with any assurances that they will realize a specific or any investment return on the containers purchased from, and managed by, us. In the event that these container investors realize losses on their investments or believe that the returns on their investments are lower than expected, they may make claims, including bringing lawsuits, against CAIJ or us for our alleged failure to act in their best interests. Any such claims could result in the payment of legal expenses and damages and also damage our reputation with container investors and potential container investors and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Certain liens may arise on our containers. Depot operators, repairmen and transporters may come into possession of our containers from time to time and have sums due to them from the lessees or sublessees of the containers. In the event of nonpayment of those charges by the lessees or sublessees, we may be delayed in, or entirely barred from, repossessing the containers, or be required to make payments or incur expenses to discharge liens on our containers. The lack of an international title registry for containers increases the risk of ownership disputes. There is no internationally recognized system of recordation or filing to evidence our title to containers nor is there an internationally recognized system for filing security interest in containers. Although we have not incurred material problems with respect to this lack of internationally recognized system, the lack of an international title recordation system with respect to containers could result in disputes with lessees, end-users, or third parties who may improperly claim ownership of the containers. As a U.S. corporation, we are subject to U.S. Executive Orders and U.S. Treasury Sanctions Regulations regarding doing business in or with certain nations and specially designated nationals (SDNs). As a U.S. corporation, we are subject to U.S. Executive Orders and U.S. Treasury sanctions regulations restricting or prohibiting business dealings in or with certain nations and with certain specially designated nationals (individuals and legal entities). Any determination that we have violated such Executive Orders and U.S. Treasury sanctions regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may pursue acquisitions or joint ventures in the future that could present unforeseen integration obstacles or costs. We may pursue acquisitions and joint ventures in the future. Acquisitions involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including: • potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; • difficulty integrating personnel and financial and other systems; • hiring additional management and other critical personnel; and • increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations. 26 Table of Contents In addition, we may encounter unforeseen obstacles or costs in the integration of acquired businesses. Also, the presence of one or more material liabilities of an acquired company that are unknown to us at the time of acquisition may have a material adverse effect on our business. Acquisitions or joint ventures may not be successful, and we may not realize any anticipated benefits from acquisitions or joint ventures. In the future, we may be required to pay personal holding company taxes, which would have an adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. The Internal Revenue Code requires any company that qualifies as a “personal holding company” to pay personal holding company taxes in addition to regular income taxes. A company qualifies as a personal holding company if (1) more than 50.0% of the value of the company’s stock is held by five or fewer individuals and (2) at least 60.0% of the company’s adjusted ordinary gross income constitutes personal holding company income, which, in our case, includes adjusted income from the lease of our containers. If we or any of our subsidiaries are a personal holding company, our undistributed personal holding company income, which is generally taxable income with certain adjustments, including a deduction for federal income taxes and dividends paid, will be taxed at a rate of 15.0%. Based upon our operating results, we were not classified as a personal holding company for the year ended December 31, 2009. Whether or not we or any of our subsidiaries are classified as personal holding companies in future years will depend upon the amount of our personal holding company income and the percentage of our outstanding common stock that will be beneficially owned by Mr. Hiromitsu Ogawa, who beneficially owned 41.3% of our common stock as of December 31, 2009. At some point in the future we could become liable for personal holding company taxes. The payment of personal holding company taxes in the future would have an adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Stock Our stock price has been volatile and may remain volatile. The trading price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in operating results, new services by us or our competitors, general conditions in the shipping industry and the intermodal container sales and leasing markets, changes in earnings estimates by analysts, or other events or factors. In addition, the public stock markets have experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility in recent months. The broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Since the initial public offering of our stock at $15.00 per share on May 16, 2007, the closing market price of our stock has fluctuated significantly from a high of $19.64 per share to a low of $2.15 per share. Since our stock is not among the most heavily traded stocks in the market, shareholders may experience difficulties in liquidating our stock. Factors affecting the trading price of our common stock may include: • variations in our financial results; • changes in financial estimates or investment recommendations by any securities analysts following our business; • the public’s response to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • future sales of common stock by us or our directors, officers or significant stockholders or the perception such sales may occur; • our ability to achieve operating results consistent with securities analysts’ projections; • the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us; 27 Table of Contents • recruitment or departure of key personnel; • our ability to timely address changing container lessee preferences; • container market and industry factors; • general stock market conditions; and • other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to such events. In addition, if the market for companies deemed similar to us or the stock market in general experiences loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business or financial results. The trading price of our common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry even if these events do not directly affect us. Future new sales of our common stock by us or outstanding shares by existing stockholders, or the perception that there will be future sales of new shares from the company or existing stockholders, may cause our stock price to decline and impair our ability to obtain capital through future stock offerings. A substantial number of shares of our common stock held by our current stockholders could be sold into the public market at anytime. In addition, the perception of, or actual sale of, new shares may materially and adversely affect our stock price and could impair our ability to obtain future capital through an offering of equity securities. We do not expect to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, our senior secured credit facility includes restrictions on our ability to pay cash dividends. Agreements governing future indebtedness will likely contain similar restrictions on our ability to pay cash dividends. Although our board of directors may decide in the future to declare and issue a dividend, or to set a dividend policy, no assurance is given that decision to declare such a dividend or to set such a policy will be made in the future. Consequently, investors must rely on sales of their common stock as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they change their financial estimates or investment recommendation, the price of our stock could decline. The trading market for our common shares will rely in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We do not control or influence the decisions or opinions of these analysts and analysts may not cover us. If any analyst who covers us changes his or her financial estimates or investment recommendation, the price of our stock could decline. If any analyst ceases coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Our founder, Mr. Hiromitsu Ogawa, will continue to have substantial control over us and could act in a manner with which other stockholders may disagree or that is not necessarily in the interests of other stockholders. Based upon beneficial ownership as of February 28, 2010, Mr. Ogawa beneficially owns approximately 41.3 % of our outstanding common stock. As a result, he may have the ability to determine the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, he may have the ability to control the management and affairs of our company. Mr. Ogawa may have interests that are different from yours. 28 Table of Contents For example, he may support proposals and actions with which you may disagree or which are not in your interests. The concentration of ownership could delay or prevent a change in control of us or otherwise discourage a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could reduce the price of our common stock. In addition, as Chairman of our Board of Directors, Mr. Ogawa will influence decisions to maintain our existing management and directors in office, delay or prevent changes of control of our company, or support or reject other management and board proposals that are subject to stockholder approval, such as amendments to our employee stock plans and approvals of significant financing transactions. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage a third party from acquiring us and consequently decrease the market value of an investment in our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware corporate law each contain provisions that could delay, defer or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management. Among other things, these provisions: • authorize us to issue preferred stock that can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior stockholder approval, with rights senior to those of our common stock; • permit removal of directors only for cause by the holders of a majority of the shares entitled to vote at the election of directors and allow only the directors to fill a vacancy on the board of directors; • prohibit stockholders from calling special meetings of stockholders; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; • allow the authorized number of directors to be changed only by resolution of the board of directors; • establish advance notice requirements for submitting nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting; • classify our board of directors into three classes so that only a portion of our directors are elected each year; and • allow our directors to amend our bylaws. These provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions, which may prevent a change of control or changes in our management that a stockholder might consider favorable. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of us. Any delay or prevention of a change in control or change in management that stockholders might otherwise consider to be favorable could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Public-company corporate governance and financial reporting practices and policies will increase our costs, and we may be unable to provide the required financial information in a timely and reliable manner. The Securities and Exchange Commission, as directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”), requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent auditors rendering an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain the adequacy and effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related regulations. Although our management has concluded that adequate internal control procedures are currently in place, no system of internal control can provide absolute assurance that the financial statements are accurate and free of errors. As a result, the risk exists that our internal control may not detect all errors or omissions in the financial statements. Our independent auditors must annually report on the effectiveness of such internal controls 29 Table of Contents over financial reporting. Our management may not be able to effectively and timely maintain controls and procedures that adequately respond to the increased regulatory compliance and reporting requirements that will be applicable to us as a public company. If we are not able to implement the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, our independent auditors may not be able to certify as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. This result may subject us to adverse regulatory consequences, and could lead to a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. We could also suffer a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements if we disclose material weaknesses in our internal controls. In addition, if we fail to develop and maintain effective controls and procedures, we may be unable to provide the required financial information in a timely and reliable manner or otherwise comply with the standards applicable to us as a public company. Any failure by us to timely provide the required financial information could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and the market value of our stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 