Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the risks described below, together with all of the other information, in evaluating our company and our common stock. If any of the risks described below actually occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and stock price. Risk Factors Relating to the Pharmacy Transaction We have a limited history operating as a stand-alone, publicly traded company on which you can evaluate our performance. The historical financial information may not be indicative of our future results as a stand-alone, publicly traded company. Before the Pharmacy Transaction, we operated as separate businesses of two different companies. The historical financial statements of KPS prior to July 31, 2007 do not reflect what our financial position, results of operations and cash flows would have been had we been operated as a combined business and a stand-alone, publicly traded company during the periods prior to the Pharmacy Transaction and are not indicative of what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows may be in the future. This is primarily a result of the following factors: • the historical financial statements prior to July 31, 2007, do not reflect certain changes that occurred in our capital structure and operations as a result of the Pharmacy Transaction; • our historical financial information prior to July 31, 2007, reflects estimated allocations for services historically provided by Kindred, and these allocations are different from the costs we incurred subsequent to the Pharmacy Transaction; • our historical financial information prior to July 31, 2007, does not reflect the debt or debt servicing cost we incurred in connection with the Pharmacy Transaction and our obligations to obtain certain goods and services after the transaction; and • the historical financial information of KPS prior to July 31, 2007 does not reflect any increased costs associated with the Pharmacy Transaction to become a stand-alone, publicly traded company, including changes that have and will occur in our cost structure, personnel needs, financing and operations of the combined business as a result of the Pharmacy Transaction. For these and other reasons, our future financial performance may not be reflective of the performance implied by the historical information we have presented for periods prior to July 31, 2007. We have a limited operating history as a combined business or as a stand-alone, publicly traded company. We have operated the businesses of PharMerica LTC and KPS on a combined, stand-alone basis only since July 31, 2007. Therefore, we have limited historical financial statements as an independent, stand-alone company upon which you can evaluate us. The historical results reflected in this Form 10-K prior to July 31, 2007 are those of KPS. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our business strategy and operations will be successful on a combined stand-alone basis. We may not be able to grow our business as planned. The integration of the remaining pharmacy locations and systems infrastructure will be time consuming and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We will continue our information systems integration to one operating platform which will be time consuming, may distract our management from our operations, may be disruptive to our customers and will be expensive, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We may be charged for services and products from our former parents at amounts greater than those charged prior to the Pharmacy Transaction and those charged by third-parties. Before the Pharmacy Transaction, our business was part of two separate public companies. Our former parent companies performed many corporate functions at costs that are less than those that are presently being charged. After the Pharmacy Transaction, AmerisourceBergen continues to be our primary drug distributor under the Prime Vendor Agreement and Kindred provides information technology services under the Information Technology Services Agreement. These agreements were entered into as part of the Pharmacy Transaction and have multi-year terms. During the terms of these agreements, we are not able to negotiate potentially better pricing and other more favorable terms with other vendors thus these existing agreements could negatively impact our results of operations, financial position and competitive position. Restrictions on our operations and our obligations to indemnify in connection with the tax-free treatment of the Pharmacy Transaction could materially and adversely affect us. Certain tax-related restrictions and indemnities set forth in the Tax Matters Agreement agreed to by AmerisourceBergen, Kindred and us in order to maintain the tax-free treatment of the Pharmacy Transaction limit our discretion in the operation of our business and could adversely affect us. Under these provisions, we: • have generally undertaken to maintain our current business as an active business for a period of two years following the completion of the Pharmacy Transaction; • are generally restricted, for a period of two years following the Pharmacy Transaction, from (i) reacquiring our stock, (ii) issuing stock to any person other than as compensation for services, (iii) making changes in our equity structure, (iv) liquidating, merging or consolidating certain of our subsidiaries, (v) transferring certain material assets except in the ordinary course of business, and (vi) entering into negotiations with respect to, or consenting to, certain acquisitions of our stock; • are generally restricted from taking any other action (including an action that would be inconsistent with the representations relied upon by Kindred and AmerisourceBergen described above) that could jeopardize the tax-free status of the spin-offs; and • have generally agreed to indemnify Kindred and AmerisourceBergen for taxes and related losses incurred as a result of the spin-offs failing to qualify as tax-free transactions provided such taxes and related losses are attributable to any act, failure to act or omission by us or our subsidiaries, including our failure to comply with applicable representations, undertakings and restrictions placed on our actions under the tax matters agreement. These prohibitions could discourage, delay or prevent equity financings, acquisitions, investments, strategic alliances, mergers and other transactions possibly resulting in a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, any indemnity obligations to Kindred and AmerisourceBergen could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and liquidity. These restrictions expire on July 31, 2009. We will no longer be able to rely on our former parent companies for diversification of business risk or to provide capital resources. Before the Pharmacy Transaction, we were operated as separate businesses of two different companies. Following the Pharmacy Transaction, we have less financial and other resources than our former parent companies. Our ability to satisfy our obligations and maintain profitability will be solely dependent upon our performance and we will not be able to rely upon the financial and other resources of our former parent companies. 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We may be required to satisfy certain indemnification obligations to our former parent companies or may not be able to collect on indemnification rights from our former parent companies. Under the terms of the Master Agreement, Kindred and AmerisourceBergen will severally and not jointly indemnify us, and we will indemnify each of Kindred and AmerisourceBergen, for all damages, liabilities and expenses resulting from a breach by the applicable party of the covenants contained in the Master Agreement. Kindred and AmerisourceBergen will severally and not jointly indemnify us for all damages, liabilities and expenses incurred by us relating to the entities, assets and liabilities retained by the applicable parent company, and we will indemnify Kindred and AmerisourceBergen for all damages, liabilities and expenses incurred by each of them relating to our entities, assets and liabilities. In addition, Kindred and AmerisourceBergen will severally and not jointly indemnify us, and we will indemnify each of Kindred and AmerisourceBergen, for all damages, liabilities and expenses resulting from a breach by the applicable party of any of the representations, warranties or covenants contained in the tax matters agreement. We will also indemnify each of Kindred and AmerisourceBergen for all damages, liabilities and expenses arising out of any tax imposed with respect to the applicable spin-off if such tax is attributable to any act, any failure to act or any omission by us or any of our subsidiaries. Kindred and AmerisourceBergen will severally and not jointly indemnify us for all damages, liabilities and expenses relating to pre-closing taxes or taxes imposed on us or our subsidiaries because PharMerica LTC or KPS was part of the consolidated return of the applicable parent company, and we will indemnify each of Kindred and AmerisourceBergen for all damages, liabilities and expenses relating to post-closing taxes of us or our subsidiaries. The indemnification obligations described above could be significant and we cannot presently determine the amount, if any, of indemnification obligations for which we will be liable or for which we will seek payment from our former parent companies. Our ability to satisfy these indemnities will depend upon our future financial performance. Similarly, the ability of our former parent companies to satisfy any such obligations to us will depend on their respective future financial performance. We cannot assure you that we will have the ability to satisfy any substantial obligations to our former parent companies or that our former parent companies will have the ability to satisfy any substantial indemnity obligations to us. Risk Factors Relating to Our Business Continued volatility and disruption to the global capital and credit markets may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, as well as our ability to access credit and the financial soundness of our customers and suppliers. Recently, the global capital and credit markets have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval, characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States federal government. These conditions could adversely affect the demand for our products and services and, therefore, reduce purchases by our customers, which would negatively affect our revenue growth and cause a decrease in our profitability. In addition, interest rate fluctuations, financial market volatility or credit market disruptions may limit our access to capital, and may also negatively affect our customers’ and our suppliers’ ability to obtain credit to finance their businesses on acceptable terms. As a result, our customers needs and ability to purchase our products or services may decrease, and our suppliers may increase their prices, reduce their output or change their terms of sale. If our customers’ or suppliers’ operating and financial performance deteriorates, or if they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain credit, our customers may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable owed to us, and our suppliers may restrict credit or impose different payment terms. Any inability of customers to pay us for our products and services, or any demands by suppliers for different payment terms, may adversely affect our earnings and cash flow. Additionally, both state and federal government sponsored payers, as a result of budget deficits or reductions, may seek to reduce their health care expenditures by renegotiating their contracts with us. Any reduction in payments by such government sponsored payers may adversely affect our earnings and cash flow. Declining economic conditions may also increase our costs. If the economic conditions do not improve or continue to deteriorate, our results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Intense competition may erode our profit margins. The distribution of pharmaceuticals to healthcare facilities is highly competitive. In each geographic market, there are national, regional and local institutional pharmacies and numerous local retail pharmacies, which provide services comparable to those offered by our pharmacies and which may have greater financial and other resources than we do and may be more established in the markets they serve than we are. We also compete against regional and local pharmacies that specialize in long-term care. Many of our competitors have equal or greater resources and access to capital than the Corporation. In addition, local pharmacies have strong personal relationships with their customers. Because relatively few barriers to entry exist in the local markets we serve, we may encounter substantial competition from local market entrants. Consolidation within the institutional pharmacy industry may also lead to increased competition. Competitive pricing pressures may adversely affect our future operating revenue and profitability. We compete based on innovation and service as well as price. To attract new clients and retain existing clients, we must continually meet service expectations of our clients and customers. We cannot be sure that we will continue to remain competitive with the service to our clients at our current levels of profitability. Our operating revenue and profitability may suffer upon the loss of large multi-facility customers. We have a number of customers that own or operate numerous multi-facilities in our institutional pharmacy segment. In addition, our hospital segment revenues are primarily derived from one large multi-facility customer. If we are not able to continue these relationships or are only able to continue these relationships on less favorable terms than the ones currently in place, our operating revenues and results of operations would be materially impacted. There can be no assurance that these customers will not terminate all or a portion of their contracts with the Corporation. If we fail to comply with complex and rapidly evolving laws and regulations, we could suffer penalties, or be required to pay substantial damages or make significant changes to our operations. We are subject to numerous federal and state regulations. If we fail to comply with existing or future applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties, including the loss of our licenses to operate our institutional pharmacies and our ability to participate in federal and state healthcare programs. As a consequence of the severe penalties we could face, we must devote significant operational and managerial resources to complying with these laws and regulations. Although we believe that we are substantially compliant with all existing statutes and regulations applicable to our business, different interpretations and enforcement policies of these laws and regulations could subject our current practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality, or could require us to make significant changes to our operations. In addition, we cannot predict the impact of future legislation and regulatory changes on our business or assure that we will be able to obtain or maintain the regulatory approvals required to operate our business. Pharmaceutical products can develop unexpected safety or efficacy concerns. Unexpected safety or efficacy concerns can arise with respect to marketed products, whether or not scientifically justified, leading to product recalls, withdrawals or declining sales. If we fail to or do not promptly withdraw pharmaceutical products upon a recall by a drug manufacturer, our business and results of operations could be negatively impacted. Legal and regulatory changes reducing reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals and/or medical treatments or services may reduce our profitability. Both our own profit margins and the profit margins of our customers may be adversely affected by laws and regulations reducing reimbursement rates. The sources and amounts of our revenues are determined by a number of factors, including licensed bed capacity and occupancy rates of our customers, the number of drugs administered to patients and the rates of reimbursement among payors. Changes in the number of drugs 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements administered to patients, as well as payor mix among private pay, Medicare and Medicaid, in our customers’ facilities will significantly affect our profitability. Medicare Part D The Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 or MMA included a major expansion of the Medicare program with the addition of a prescription drug benefit under the new Medicare Part D program. Effective January 1, 2006, Medicare beneficiaries became eligible to enroll in prescription drug plans, or PDPs, offered and administered by private entities and became eligible for coverage of outpatient prescription drugs. The continued impact of these regulations depends upon a variety of factors, including our ongoing relationships with the Part D Plans and the patient mix of our customers. Future modifications to the Medicare Part D program may reduce revenue and impose additional costs to the industry. In addition, we cannot assure you that Medicare Part D and the regulations promulgated under Medicare Part D will not have a material adverse effect on our institutional pharmacy business. Risks related to manufacturer rebates Our pharmacies receive rebates from pharmaceutical manufacturers for undertaking certain activities that the manufacturers believe may increase the likelihood that their respective products will be dispensed. The CMS has questioned whether long-term care pharmacies should be permitted to receive discounts, rebates and other price concessions from pharmaceutical manufacturers with respect to prescriptions covered under the Medicare Part D benefit. In guidance issued to Plan Sponsors, CMS instructed Plan Sponsors to obtain full disclosure from long-term care pharmacies of all discounts, rebates or other remuneration that such pharmacies receive from drug manufacturers and has issued guidelines regarding the information required. CMS has also issued draft reporting requirements for 2008 which would, among other things, require disclosure of non-rebate discounts and price concessions provided to long-term care pharmacies. It is possible that these disclosure requirements and others imposed by CMS could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected if CMS should take any action that has the effect of eliminating or significantly reducing the rebates that we receive from pharmaceutical manufacturers. Changes in Medicaid Reimbursement In addition, effective October 1, 2007, CMS promulgated new rules under the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, or DRA changing the federal upper payment limit for Medicaid reimbursement from 150% of the lowest published price for a drug (which is usually the average wholesale price) to 250% of the lowest average manufacturer price, or AMP. Although the use of an AMP benchmark would have reduced Medicaid reimbursement rates for certain generic pharmaceuticals, it did not take effect due to a December 19, 2007 federal district court injunction against CMS prohibiting the agency from implementing the rule. The outcome of the AMP litigation is uncertain. We are unable to fully evaluate the potential impact until a final action is ultimately determined. There can be no assurance that changes in reimbursement formula under the DRA or future legislation or regulation will not have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. The Medicare Improvement for Patients and Providers Act of 2008 delayed use of AMP in setting FULs for multiple source drugs through September 30, 2009, and delayed public posting of AMP data until October 1, 2009. As stated above, the use of AMP in FULs and public posting of AMP data are currently on hold due to an injunction. The settlement by First DataBank, Inc. on pricing benchmark may reduce reimbursement to us. Average wholesale price or AWP, is a pricing benchmark published by First DataBank, Inc., which provides drug databases, content integration software and drug reference products. AWP is widely used to calculate a portion of the Medicaid and Medicare Part D drug reimbursements payable to pharmacy providers. In 2005, several pension funds brought an action against First DataBank and another healthcare provider alleging collusion to set AWPs for branded drugs 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In June 2008, First DataBank, Inc. reported that it filed amendments with the Court to a previously proposed settlement. If the terms of the amended settlement are approved by the court, First DataBank will (1) adjust its reporting of Blue Book AWP for those prescription drugs identified in the plaintiffs’ previously filed complaint by reducing the mark-up factor utilized in connection with the calculation of the Blue Book AWP data field to 1.20 times the WAC or Direct Price for those prescription drugs that are on a mark-up basis; (2) establish a centralized data repository to facilitate reasonable access to discoverable material from First DataBank concerning its drug price reporting practices, (3) make a $1.0 million contribution into a court-supervised fund for the benefit of the settlement class members, and (4) pay certain settlement-related notice and other expenses and fees. The Court granted preliminary approval of the amended settlement on July 14, 2008. Further the court conducted a final fairness hearing on December 17, 2008 to consider among other things the fairness, reasonableness, and adequacy of the settlement. The court did not rule on the fairness hearing and asked that the parties provide the court with certain additional information. It is expected that the Court will make a final decision in early February 2009. Independent of the settlement and on the same schedule as the Blue Book AWP adjustment noted above, First DataBank intends to apply the same 1.20 markup factor to all other National Drug Codes or NDCs whose Blue Book AWP is set based upon a markup to WAC or Direct Price in excess of 1.20. First DataBank will also independently discontinue publishing the Blue Book AWP data field for all drugs no later than two years following the date that the Blue Book AWP adjustments noted above are implemented. We are unable to fully evaluate the potential impact until a final action is ultimately determined. There can be no assurance that changes in the calculation of AWP will not have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Adverse results in material litigation matters or governmental inquiries could have a material adverse effect upon the Corporation’s business. The Corporation may from time to time become subject in the ordinary course of business to material legal action related to, among other things, intellectual property disputes, professional liability and employee-related matters, as well as inquiries from governmental agencies and Medicare or Medicaid carriers requesting comment and information on allegations of billing irregularities and other matters that are brought to their attention through billing audits, third parties or other sources. The health care industry is subject to substantial federal and state government regulation and audit. Legal actions could result in substantial monetary damages as well as damage to the Corporation’s reputation with customers, which could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations and financial position. If we or our customers fail to comply with Medicare and Medicaid regulations, we may be subjected to penalties or loss of eligibility to participate in these programs. The Medicare and Medicaid programs are highly regulated. These programs are also subject to frequent and substantial changes. If we or our customers’ facilities fail to comply with applicable reimbursement laws and regulations, whether purposely or inadvertently, our reimbursement under these programs could be curtailed or reduced and our eligibility to continue to participate in these programs could be adversely affected. Federal or state governments may also impose other penalties on us for failure to comply with the applicable reimbursement regulations. Failure by our customers to comply with these or future laws and regulations could result in our inability to provide pharmacy services to these customers and their residents. We do not believe that we have taken any actions that could subject us to material penalties under these rules and regulations. Among these laws is the federal anti-kickback statute. This statute prohibits anyone from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying any remuneration with the intent to refer, or to arrange for the referral or order of, services or items payable under a federal healthcare program. Courts have interpreted this statute broadly. Violations of the anti-kickback statute may be punished by a criminal fine of up to $25,000 for 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements each violation or imprisonment, civil money penalties of up to $50,000 per violation and damages of up to three times the total amount of the remuneration and/or exclusion from participation in federal health care programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. This law impacts the relationships that we may have with potential referral sources. We have a variety of relationships with potential referral sources, including hospitals and skilled nursing facilities with which we have contracted to provide pharmacy services. The Office of Inspector General at HHS, or OIG, among other regulatory agencies, is responsible for identifying and eliminating fraud, abuse or waste. The OIG carries out this responsibility through a nationwide program of audits, investigations and inspections. The OIG has promulgated safe harbor regulations that outline practices that are deemed protected from prosecution under the anti-kickback statute. While we endeavor to comply with the applicable safe harbors, certain of our current arrangements may not qualify for safe harbor protection. Failure to meet a safe harbor does not mean that the arrangement necessarily violates the anti-kickback statute, but may subject the arrangement to greater scrutiny. We cannot assure you that practices that are outside of a safe harbor will not be found to violate the anti-kickback statute. The anti-kickback statute and similar state laws and regulations are expansive. We do not always have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws and regulations. In the future, different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality, or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. A determination that we have violated these laws, or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of these laws, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects and our business reputation could suffer significantly. If we fail to comply with the anti-kickback statute or other applicable laws and regulations, we could be subjected to liabilities, including criminal penalties, civil penalties (including the loss of our licenses to operate one or more facilities), and exclusion of one or more facilities from participation in the Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state health care programs. In addition, we are unable to predict whether other legislation or regulations at the federal or state level will be adopted, what form such legislation or regulations may take or their impact. Continuing government and private efforts to contain healthcare costs may reduce our future revenue. We could be adversely affected by the continuing efforts of government and private payors to contain healthcare costs. To reduce healthcare costs, payors seek to lower reimbursement rates, limit the scope of covered services and negotiate reduced or capped pricing arrangements. While many of the proposed policy changes would require congressional approval to implement, we cannot assure you that reimbursement payments under governmental and private third party payor programs will remain at levels comparable to present levels or will be sufficient to cover the costs allocable to patients eligible for reimbursement under these programs. Any changes that lower reimbursement rates under Medicare, Medicaid or private pay programs could result in a substantial reduction in our net operating revenues. Our operating margins may continue to be under pressure because of deterioration in reimbursement, changes in payor mix and growth in operating expenses in excess of increases, if any, in payments by third party payors. Healthcare reform could adversely affect the liquidity of our customers which would have an adverse effect on their ability to make timely payments to us for our products and services. Healthcare reform and legislation may have an adverse effect on our business through decreasing funds available to our customers. Limitations or restrictions on Medicare and Medicaid payments to our customers could adversely impact the liquidity of our customers, resulting in their inability to pay us, or to timely pay us, for our products and services. This inability could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. 27 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The changing U.S. healthcare industry and increasing enforcement environment may negatively impact our business. Our products and services are part of the structure of the healthcare financing and reimbursement system currently existing in the United States. In recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant changes in an effort to reduce costs and government spending. These changes include an increased reliance on managed care, cuts in Medicare funding affecting our healthcare provider customer base and consolidation of competitors, suppliers and customers. In January 2005, CMS issued final regulations on Medicare Part D which became effective on January 1, 2006. Most of the nursing center residents that we serve whose drug costs were previously covered by state Medicaid programs are dual eligible who qualify for the new Medicare drug benefit. Accordingly, since January 1, 2006, Medicaid is no longer a primary payor for the pharmacy services provided to these residents. We expect the healthcare industry to continue to change significantly in the future. Some of these potential changes, such as a reduction in governmental support of healthcare services or adverse changes in legislation or regulations governing prescription drug pricing, healthcare services or mandated benefits, may cause healthcare providers to reduce the amount of our products and services they purchase or the price they are willing to pay for our products and services. If we are unable to adjust to changes in the healthcare environment, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Further, both federal and state government agencies have increased their focus on and coordination of civil and criminal enforcement efforts in the healthcare area. The OIG and the U.S. Department of Justice have, from time to time, established national enforcement initiatives, targeting all providers of a particular type, that focus on specific billing practices or other suspected areas of abuse. In addition, under the federal False Claims Act, private parties have the right to bring “qui tam” whistleblower lawsuits against companies that submit false claims for payments to the government. A number of states have adopted similar state whistleblower and false claims provisions. We do not believe that we have taken any actions that could subject us to material penalties under these provisions. Further consolidation of managed care organizations and other third-party payors may adversely affect our profits. Managed care organizations and other third-party payors have continued to consolidate in order to enhance their ability to influence the delivery of healthcare services. Consequently, the healthcare needs of a large percentage of the U.S. population are increasingly served by a small number of managed care organizations. These organizations generally enter into service agreements with a limited number of providers for needed services. In addition, private payors, including managed care payors, increasingly are demanding discounted fee structures. To the extent that these organizations terminate us as a preferred provider, engage our competitors as a preferred or exclusive provider or demand discounted fee structures, our profitability and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Possible changes in or our failure to satisfy our manufacturers’ rebate programs could adversely affect our results of operations. We currently earn rebates from certain manufacturers of pharmaceutical products for meeting tiered market share and purchase volumes. There can be no assurance that pharmaceutical manufacturers will continue to offer these rebates or that we will continue to satisfy the tiered market share and purchase volumes. The termination of such programs or our failure to satisfy the tiered market share and volumes may have an adverse affect on our cost of goods sold and our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. 28 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements If we or our customers fail to comply with licensure requirements, laws and regulations in respect of healthcare fraud or other applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. Our pharmacies must be licensed by the state board of pharmacy in the state in which they operate. Many states also regulate out-of-state pharmacies that are delivering prescription products to patients or residents in their states. The failure to obtain or renew any required regulatory approvals or licenses could adversely impact the operation of our business. In addition, the healthcare facilities we service are also subject to extensive federal, state and local regulations and are required to be licensed in the states in which they are located. The failure by these healthcare facilities to comply with these or future regulations or to obtain or renew any required licenses could result in our inability to provide pharmacy services to these facilities and their residents and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. While we believe that we are in substantial compliance with all applicable laws, many of the regulations applicable to us, including those relating to marketing incentives offered by pharmaceutical suppliers, and rebates paid by pharmaceutical manufacturers are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts. They may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations. These changes may be material and may require the expenditure of material funds to implement. We believe that the regulatory environment surrounding most segments of the healthcare industry remains intense. Federal and state governments continue to impose intensive enforcement policies resulting in a significant number of inspections, citations of regulatory deficiencies and other regulatory sanctions including demands for refund of overpayments, terminations from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, bans on Medicare and Medicaid payments and fines. If we or our customers fail to comply with the extensive applicable laws and regulations, we could become ineligible to receive government program reimbursement, suffer civil or criminal penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. In addition, we could be forced to expend considerable resources responding to an investigation or other enforcement action under these laws or regulations regardless of whether we have actually been involved in any violations or wrongdoing. Federal and state medical privacy regulations may increase the costs of operations and expose us to civil and criminal sanctions. We must comply with extensive federal and state requirements regarding the transmission and retention of health information. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, referred to as HIPAA, was enacted to ensure that employees can retain and at times transfer their health insurance when they change jobs, to enhance the privacy and security of personal health information and to simplify healthcare administrative processes. The law requires the adoption of standards for the exchange of electronic health information. Based upon current information, we believe we will be able to fully comply with HIPAA requirements, but at this time, we cannot estimate the cost of compliance or if implementation of the HIPAA standards will result in an adverse effect on our operations or profitability or that of our customers. Failure to comply with HIPAA could result in fines and penalties that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Acquisitions, investments and strategic alliances that we have made or may make in the future may use significant resources, may be unsuccessful and could expose us to unforeseen liabilities. We have made and anticipate that we may continue to make acquisitions of, investments in and strategic alliances with complementary businesses to enable us to capitalize on our position in the geographic markets in which we operate and to expand our businesses in new geographic markets. At any particular time, we may be in various stages of assessment, discussion and negotiation with regard to one or more potential acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances, not all of which, if any, will be consummated. Our growth plans rely, in part, on the successful completion of future acquisitions. If we are unsuccessful, our business would suffer. 29 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We intend to make public disclosure of pending and completed acquisitions when appropriate or required by applicable securities laws and regulations. Acquisitions may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, additional operating losses, amortization of certain intangible assets of acquired companies, and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Acquisitions involve numerous risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation: • difficulties integrating acquired operations, personnel and information systems, or in realizing projected efficiencies and cost savings; • diversion of management’s time from existing operations; • potential loss of key employees or customers of acquired companies; • inaccurate assessment of assets and liabilities and exposure to undisclosed or unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, including liabilities for failure to comply with healthcare laws; • increases in our indebtedness and a limitation on our ability to access additional capital when needed; and • failure to operate acquired facilities profitably or to achieve improvements in their financial performance. If we fail to comply with our Corporate Integrity Agreement, we could be subject to severe sanctions, including stipulated monetary penalties and exclusion from federal healthcare programs. We are subject to the terms of a CIA, entered into between the OIG and PharMerica LTC on March 29, 2005. In June 2004, the OIG commenced an administrative action against PharMerica LTC, including its subsidiary PharMerica Drug Systems, Inc., or PDSI. The OIG alleged that PDSI’s December 1997 acquisition of Hollins Manor I, LLC, or Hollins, from HCMF Corporation, or HCMF, violated the anti-kickback provisions of the Social Security Act. The Hollins’ acquisition predated the acquisition of PharMerica LTC in 1999 by AmerisourceBergen’s predecessor. Hollins was an institutional pharmacy that had been established to serve the nursing homes then operated by HCMF. As part of the settlement, in which PharMerica LTC and PDSI expressly denied wrongdoing, PharMerica LTC paid $5.8 million to the HHS and entered into a five-year CIA. In turn, the OIG provided PharMerica LTC and its subsidiaries with a full release for the conduct covered by the administrative action, including an agreement not to pursue their exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid or other federal healthcare programs. Under the CIA, PharMerica LTC agreed to continue its, and the Corporation as of the closing of the Pharmacy Transaction has agreed to maintain a comprehensive compliance program, which includes a corporate compliance officer, a corporate compliance committee, a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, written policies and procedures, educational and training initiatives, review and disciplinary procedures, a confidential disclosure program, an ineligible persons screening program and internal audit and review procedures, all designed to promote compliance with applicable laws, including federal healthcare program requirements, and the promotion of ethical business practices. PharMerica LTC is also subject to extensive reporting requirements under the CIA, including annual reports describing PharMerica LTC’s compliance activities, notices of any government investigations or legal proceedings, overpayments received from federal healthcare programs and changes in pharmacy locations and new business units. The term of the CIA is five years and it ends on March 29, 2010. PharMerica LTC is required to comply fully and timely with all of the CIA requirements. Failure to do so may lead to the imposition of stipulated penalties, including substantial monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. Any such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. 30 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Risks generally associated with our sophisticated information systems may adversely affect our results of operations. We rely on sophisticated information systems in our business to obtain, rapidly process, analyze, and manage data to facilitate the dispensing of prescription and non-prescription pharmaceuticals in accordance with physician orders and deliver those medications to patients and long-term care residents on a timely basis; to manage the accurate billing and collections for thousands of customers; and to process payments to suppliers. Our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected if these systems are interrupted or damaged or if they fail for an extended period of time. We purchase a significant portion of our pharmaceutical products from one supplier—AmerisourceBergen. We are required to purchase 95% of our pharmaceutical products from AmerisourceBergen, one of our former parent companies, pursuant to the Prime Vendor Agreement. If the Prime Vendor Agreement is terminated or AmerisourceBergen fails to deliver products in accordance with the Prime Vendor Agreement, there can be no assurance that our operations would not be disrupted or that we could obtain the products at similar cost or at all. In this event, failure to satisfy our customers’ requirements would result in defaults under these customer contracts subjecting us to damages and the potential termination of those contracts. Such events could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. In addition, under the terms of the Prime Vendor Agreement, we are unable to negotiate potentially better pricing and other terms with other drug distributors which could negatively impact our competitive position. Prescription volumes may decline, and our net revenues and profitability may be negatively impacted, if products are withdrawn from the market or if increased safety risk profiles of specific drugs result in utilization decreases. We dispense significant volumes of brand-name and generic drugs from our institutional pharmacies. These volumes are the basis for our net revenues and profitability. When increased safety risk profiles of specific drugs or classes of drugs result in utilization decreases, physicians may cease writing or reduce the numbers of prescriptions written for these drugs. Additionally, negative press regarding drugs with higher safety risk profiles may result in reduced consumer demand for such drugs. On occasion, products are withdrawn by their manufacturers. In cases where there are no acceptable prescription drug equivalents or alternatives for these prescription drugs, our volumes, net revenues, profitability and cash flows may decline. We could be required to record a material non-cash charge to income if our recorded intangible assets are impaired, or if we shorten intangible asset useful lives. We have $73.4 million of recorded intangible assets, net, on our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2008. Our intangible assets primarily represent the value of client relationships that were recorded from acquisitions prior to July 31, 2007 and upon our acquisition of PharMerica LTC. Under current accounting rules, intangible assets are amortized over their useful lives. These assets may become impaired with the loss of significant clients. If the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the undiscounted pre-tax expected future cash flows from the lowest appropriate asset grouping, we would be required to record a non-cash impairment charge to our statement of operations in the amount the carrying value of these assets exceeds the undiscounted expected future cash flows. In addition, while the intangible assets may not be impaired, the useful lives are subject to continual assessment, taking into account historical and expected losses of relationships that were in the base at time of acquisition. This assessment may result in a reduction of the remaining weighted average useful life of these assets, resulting in potentially significant increases to non-cash amortization expense that is charged to our consolidated statement of operations. An intangible asset impairment charge, or a reduction of amortization lives, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we incurred a pre-tax impairment charge of $14.8 million or $0.30 diluted earnings per share as a result of a review of our lost customer base of pre-Pharmacy Transaction assets. 31 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We primarily obtain our information services from one provider. Failure to provide information services, in a timely manner could cause delays in the delivery of our services, which could damage our reputation, cause us to lose customers and negatively impact our growth. We obtain substantially all of our information services from Kindred, one of our former parent companies, pursuant to the IT Services Agreement. Kindred is not in the business of providing comprehensive information technology outsourcing services to third parties and does not have any significant prior experience providing comprehensive outsourcing information technology services for any third party. If Kindred or other third parties upon whom we are dependent fail to devote sufficient time and resources to us or if their performance is substandard, our business may be harmed. Any delays, malfunctions, inefficiencies or interruptions in these products or services could adversely affect the reliability or operation of our business, which could cause us to experience difficulty retaining current customers and attracting new customers. This could result in our failure to satisfy our customers’ requirements or comply with certain of our financial or regulatory reporting requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. We are highly dependent on our senior management team and our pharmacy professionals. We are highly dependent upon the members of our senior management and our pharmacists and other pharmacy professionals. Our business is managed by a small number of senior management personnel. If we were unable to retain these persons, we might be materially adversely affected due to the limited pool of senior management personnel with significant experience in our industry. Accordingly, we believe we could experience significant difficulty in replacing key management personnel. We expect that any employment contracts we enter into with our key management personnel will be subject to termination without cause by either party. Moreover, although the majority of the members of our senior management team have significant experience in the industry, they will need time to fully assess and understand our business and operations. We can offer no assurance how long these members of senior management will choose to remain with us. In addition, our continued success depends on our ability to attract and retain pharmacists and other pharmacy professionals. Competition for qualified pharmacists and other pharmacy professionals is intense. The loss of pharmacy personnel or the inability to attract or retain sufficient numbers of qualified pharmacy professionals could adversely affect our business. Although we generally have been able to meet our staffing requirements for pharmacists and other pharmacy professionals, our inability to do so in the future could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Risk Factors Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock and Our Senior Secured Credit Facility The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including, without limitation the following: • as a result of the risk factors listed in this document; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations; • for reasons unrelated to our specific performance, such as reports by industry analysts, investor perceptions, or negative announcements by our customers or competitors regarding their own performance; • regulatory changes that could impact our business or that of our customers; and • general economic and industry conditions. In addition, when the market price of a company’s common stock drops significantly, stockholders often institute securities class action lawsuits against the company. A lawsuit against us could cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of our management and other resources. 32 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and provisions of Delaware law as well as certain provisions of agreements entered into in connection with the Pharmacy Transaction could delay or prevent a change of control that stockholders may favor. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or other change of control that stockholders may consider favorable or may impede the ability of the holders of our common stock to change our management. The provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, among other things: • prohibit stockholder action except at an annual or special meeting. Specifically, this means our stockholders will be unable to act by written consent; • regulate how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at annual meetings of stockholders. Advance notice of such proposals or nominations will be required; • regulate how special meetings of stockholders may be called. Our stockholders will not have the right to call special meetings; • authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock in one or more series, without stockholder approval. Under this authority, our board of directors could adopt a rights plan which could ensure continuity of management by rendering it more difficult for a potential acquirer to obtain control of us; and • require an affirmative vote of the holders of three-quarters or more of the combined voting power of our common stock entitled to vote in the election of our directors in order for the stockholders to amend our bylaws. In addition, because we have not chosen to be exempt from Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (“DGCL”), this provision could also delay or prevent a change of control that may be favorable. Section 203 provides that, subject to limited exceptions, persons that acquire, or are affiliated with a person that acquires, more than 15% of the outstanding voting stock of a Delaware corporation shall not engage in any business combination with that corporation, including by merger, consolidation or acquisitions of additional shares, for a three-year period following the date on which that person or its affiliate becomes the holder of more than 15% of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock. Agreements entered into in connection with the Pharmacy Transaction An acquisition of our stock or further issuance of our stock could cause Kindred and AmerisourceBergen to recognize a taxable gain on the spin-off of PharMerica LTC or KPS, respectively. Under the Tax Matters Agreement we would be required to indemnify our former parent companies for the resulting tax, and this indemnity obligation might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that you may consider favorable. Several of the agreements that we entered into with our former parent companies at closing will require us to obtain the consent of one or both of our former parent companies prior to assigning our rights and obligations under such agreements. In addition some of the agreements that we entered into at closing, including certain transition services agreements, may be modified upon a change of control of our company. The consent and termination rights set forth in these agreements might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that you may consider favorable. Acquisitions, investments and strategic alliances we may make in the future may need to be financed by borrowings from the senior secured credit facility for which funds may not be made available by certain participants. We have made and anticipate that we may continue to make acquisitions of, investments in and strategic alliances with complementary businesses to enable us to capitalize on our position in the geographic markets in 33 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements which we operate and to expand our business in new geographic markets. Our growth plans rely, in part, on the successful completion of future acquisitions. At any particular time, we may need to finance such acquisitions and strategic alliances by borrowings from our senior secured credit facility. The financial markets are very volatile and certain participants in our senior secured credit facility may not be able to participate in funding their commitments under the revolving line of credit. If we are unsuccessful in obtaining the financing, our business would be impacted. We have been informed by one of the lenders that they will not fund any of their commitments under the Revolving Credit Agreement of $8.3 million. This has reduced our availability under the Revolving Credit Agreement to $139.0 million. The Corporation is actively pursuing a replacement lender to fulfill the commitment. We are exposed to interest rate changes. We are exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates. As of December 31, 2008, we had outstanding debt of $240.0 million, all of which was subject to variable rates of interest. We entered into an interest rate swap agreement effective July 31, 2007 with a maturity date of July 31, 2009, to manage our exposure to these fluctuations. Our interest rate swap decreases our variable rate debt as a percentage of our outstanding debt from 100% to 17% as of December 31, 2008. The interest rate swap converts a portion of our indebtedness to a fixed rate with a decreasing notional amount starting at $200.0 million at an annual fixed rate of 5.123%, plus current applicable margin of 1.0%. The notional amount of the swap agreement represents a balance used to calculate the exchange of cash flows and is not an asset or liability. Our credit risk related to this agreement is considered low because the swap agreement is managed by a creditworthy financial institution. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Market Risk.” We have indebtedness, which restricts our ability to pay dividends and has a negative impact on our financing options and liquidity. We have $240.0 million in indebtednesses outstanding under our senior secured credit facility. The credit agreement contains customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness, including a maximum of debt to EBITDA ratio. The senior secured credit facility contains financial covenants that require us to satisfy certain financial tests and maintain certain financial ratios. The senior secured credit facility limits our ability to declare and pay dividends or other distributions on our shares of common stock. If our lenders permit us to declare dividends, the dividend amounts, if any, will be determined by our board of directors, which will consider a number of factors, including our financial condition, capital requirements, funds generated from operations, future business prospects, applicable contractual restrictions and any other factors our board of directors may deem relevant. The amount of this outstanding indebtedness could limit our ability to pay dividends and to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditure and acquisition purposes. A significant portion of our cash flows will be dedicated to debt service and will be unavailable for investment, capital expenditures or other operating expenses. As a result of these and other factors, we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we do not generate or are unable to borrow sufficient amounts of cash on satisfactory terms to meet these needs, we may need to seek to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, sell assets, curtail discretionary capital expenditures or seek additional capital. There can be no assurance that additional capital will be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, liquidity, capital resources, and financial position. We have been informed by one of our lenders that they will not uphold their commitment to fund requests under the terms of the Revolving Credit facility up to the amount of $8.3 million. This reduces our availability under the revolver to $139.0 million. The Corporation is actively pursuing a replacement lendor to fulfill the commitment. 34 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our ability to pay dividends is limited by our financial results and we do not anticipate paying any distributions in the foreseeable future. We anticipate that future earnings will be used principally to support operations and finance the growth of our business. Thus, we do not intend to pay dividends or other cash distributions on our common stock in the foreseeable future. See “Dividend Policy”. We entered into a senior secured credit facility providing for both term and revolving credit borrowings. Our ability to make payments on our existing and future debt and to fund working capital needs and planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future, which is largely subject to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory, legislative and other factors that are beyond our control. Cost containment and lower reimbursement levels relative to increases in cost by third party payors, including federal and state governments, could have a significant negative impact on our business and on our cash flows. Our operating margins continue to be under pressure because of continuing regulatory scrutiny and growth in our operating expenses, such as product and labor costs. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 