Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Other events that we do not currently anticipate or that we currently deem immaterial also may affect our results of operations and financial condition. If any events described in the risk factors actually occur, our business, operating results, prospects and financial condition could be materially harmed. In connection with the forward looking statements that appear elsewhere in this quarterly report, you should also carefully review the cautionary statement referred to under “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward Looking Statements.” ******************************** Risks Related to Our Financial Position and Need for Additional Financing We will need to secure additional financing in April 2009 in order to continue to finance our operations. If we are unable to secure additional financing on acceptable terms, we may be forced to curtail or cease our operations. As of March 31, 2009, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $200,000. We currently have no commitments or arrangements from third parties for any additional financing to fund our research and development and/or other operations. We are seeking substantial additional financing through public and/or private financing, which may include equity and/or debt financings, research grants and through other arrangements, including collaborative arrangements. As part of such efforts, we may seek loans from certain of our executive officers, directors and/or current shareholders. We may also seek to satisfy some of our obligations to the guarantors of our loan with Bank of America (the “Guarantors”) through the issuance of various forms of securities or debt on negotiated terms. However, financing and/or alternative arrangements with the Guarantors may not be available when we need it, or may not be available on acceptable terms. If we are unable to secure additional financing in April 2009, we may be forced to: • curtail or abandon our existing business plan, • reduce our headcount; • default on our debt obligations under the BlueCrest Loan; • file for bankruptcy; • seek to sell some or all of our assets; and/or • cease our operations. If we are forced to take any of these steps, any investment in our common stock may be worthless. Our ability to continue to enroll patients in the MARVEL Trial in accordance with our targeted trial schedule is contingent on our ability to secure $5 million of additional capital by the end of April 2009. If we do not secure such additional capital, we anticipate that we will be required to suspend the MARVEL Trial or more significantly defer the enrollment and treatment of patients in the MARVEL Trial. Such actions will, at a minimum, delay our projected date for completing the MARVEL Trial. Since our inception, we have invested a significant portion of our efforts and financial resources in MyoCell, and depend heavily on its success. The MARVEL Trial is our only ongoing clinical trial of MyoCell and a suspension of this trial will delay, potentially significantly, our proposed timeline for seeking regulatory approval of and commercializing MyoCell. In the event of an uncured default of the BlueCrest Loan, the loan agreement provides that all amounts owed to BlueCrest Capital are immediately due and payable and that BlueCrest Capital has the right to enforce its security interest in the assets securing the BlueCrest Loan. In such event, BlueCrest Capital could take possession of any or all of our assets in which they hold a security interest, and dispose of those assets to the extent necessary to pay off our debts, which would materially harm our business. In the event we are forced to file for bankruptcy protection, among other things, our license agreement with the Cleveland Clinic with respect to the intellectual property related to our MyoCell SDF-1 product candidate will automatically terminate. 34 Table of Contents Our ability to obtain additional debt financing and/or alternative arrangements with the Guarantors may be limited by the amount of, terms and restrictions of our then current debt. For instance, we do not anticipate repaying the BlueCrest Loan until its scheduled maturity in May 2010. Accordingly, until such time, we will generally be restricted from, among other things, incurring additional indebtedness or liens, with limited exceptions. See “— We have a substantial amount of debt...” Additional debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants that limit or further limit our operating and financial flexibility and prohibit us from making distributions to shareholders. If we enter into loan agreements with our executive officers, directors, and/or shareholders, although our Audit Committee will be required to approve the terms of any such transaction, there can be no assurances that these arrangements will be advantageous to us, that conflicts of interest will not arise with respect to such transactions, or that if such conflicts arise, they will be resolved in a manner favorable to us. If we raise additional capital and/or secure alternative arrangements with the Guarantors by issuing equity, equity-related or convertible securities, the economic, voting and other rights of our existing shareholders may be diluted, and those newly issued securities may be issued at prices that are a significant discount to current and/or then prevailing market prices. In addition, any such newly issued securities may have rights superior to those of our common stock. If we obtain additional capital through collaborative arrangements, we may be required to relinquish greater rights to our technologies or product candidates than we might otherwise have or become subject to restrictive covenants that may affect our business. Our independent registered public accounting firm has expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued its report dated April 7, 2009 in connection with the audit of our financial statements as of December 31, 2008 that included an explanatory paragraph describing the existence of conditions that raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2008 have been prepared under the assumption that we will continue as a going concern. If we are not able to continue as a going concern, it is likely that holders of our common stock will lose all of their investment. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Current Adverse Economic Conditions have had a negative impact on our ability to obtain additional financing. Our inability to obtain additional financing would have a significant adverse effect on our operations. In early 2008, as the United States economy began to soften and fuel and other commodity prices began to rise, doubts were raised about the ability of borrowers to pay debts. Housing values began to fall and marginal loans were first to default, triggering the sub-prime lending crisis. Financial institutions responded by tightening their lending policies with respect to counterparties determined to have sub-prime mortgage risk. This tightening of institutional lending policies led to the failure of major financial institutions late in the third quarter of 2008. Continued failures, losses, and write-downs at major financial institutions through 2008 intensified concerns about credit and liquidity risks and have resulted in a sharp reduction in overall market liquidity and broad governmental intervention. The global credit crisis threatens the stability of the global economy and has adversely impacted consumer confidence and spending. We believe this global credit crisis has also had a negative impact on our ability to obtain additional financing. As discussed above, our inability to obtain additional financing would have a significant adverse effect on our operations. We are a development stage life sciences company with a limited operating history and a history of net losses and negative cash flows from operations. We may never be profitable, and if we incur operating losses and generate negative cash flows from operations for longer than expected, we may be unable to continue operations. We are a development stage life sciences company and have a limited operating history, limited capital, limited sources of revenue and have incurred losses since inception. Our operations to date have been limited to organizing our company, developing and engaging in clinical trials of our MyoCell product candidate, expanding our pipeline of complementary product candidates through internal development and third party licenses, expanding and strengthening 35 Table of Contents our intellectual property position through internal programs and third party licenses and recruiting management, research and clinical personnel. Consequently, it may be difficult to predict our future success or viability due to our lack of operating history. As of December 31, 2008, we have accumulated a deficit during our development stage of approximately $96.8 million. Our MyoCell product candidate has not received regulatory approval or generated any material revenues and is not expected to generate any material revenues until 2010, if ever. Since inception, we have generated substantial net losses, including net losses of approximately $14.2 million and $18.1 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively and substantial negative cash flows from operations. We anticipate that we will continue to incur significant and increasing net losses and negative cash flows from operations for the foreseeable future as we: • establish a distribution network for and commence distribution of certain products for which we have acquired distribution rights; • commence full scale enrollment of the MARVEL Trial; • continue research and development and undertake new clinical trials with respect to our pipeline product candidates, including clinical trials related to MyoCell SDF-1; • seek to raise additional capital; • apply for regulatory approvals; • make capital expenditures to increase our research and development and cell culturing capabilities; • add operational, financial and management information systems and personnel and develop and protect our intellectual property; • make payments pursuant to license agreements upon achievement of certain milestones; and • establish sales and marketing capabilities to commercialize products for which we obtain regulatory approval, if any. Our limited experience in conducting and managing preclinical development activities, clinical trials and the application process necessary to obtain regulatory approvals might prevent us from successfully designing or implementing a preclinical study or clinical trial. If we do not succeed in conducting and managing our preclinical development activities or clinical trials, or in obtaining regulatory approvals, we might not be able to commercialize our product candidates, or might be significantly delayed in doing so, which will materially harm our business. None of the biologic products that we are currently developing has been approved by the FDA or any similar regulatory authority in any foreign country. Our ability to generate revenues from any of our product candidates will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to successfully complete clinical trials, obtain necessary regulatory approvals and implement our commercialization strategy. In addition, even if we are successful in obtaining necessary regulatory approvals and bringing one or more product candidates to market, we will be subject to the risk that the marketplace will not accept those products. We may, and anticipate that we will need to, transition from a company with a research and development focus to a company capable of supporting commercial activities and we may not succeed in such a transition. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our product development and commercialization efforts, we are unable to predict the extent of our future losses or when or if we will become profitable. Our failure to successfully commercialize our product candidates or to become and remain profitable could impair our ability to raise capital, expand our business, diversify our product offerings and continue our operations. We have a substantial amount of debt and may incur substantial additional debt, which could adversely affect our ability to pursue certain business objectives, obtain financing in the future and/or react to changes in our business. In addition to the BlueCrest Loan, on June 1, 2007, we borrowed $5.0 million from Bank of America under an eight month loan, which was subsequently extended until July 2009, and $1 million under a loan due subsequent to repayment of the BlueCrest Loan. As of December 31, 2008, we had an aggregate of $8.9 million in principal amount of outstanding indebtedness. We and Bank of America have agreed with BlueCrest Capital that we will not individually make any payments due under the Bank of America Loan while the BlueCrest Loan is outstanding. Certain persons, including our 36 Table of Contents Chairman of the Board, two of our other directors and two of our shareholders, or, collectively, the Guarantors, agreed to provide Bank of America in the aggregate up to $5.5 million of funds and/or securities to make these payments. As of March 31, 2009, these individuals had paid an aggregate of $3.6 million on the Bank of America Loan on our behalf, including $3.0 million of principal by our Chairman of the Board. Upon our repayment in full of the BlueCrest Loan, we are required to reimburse these persons with interest at an annual rate of the prime rate plus 5.0% for any and all payments made by them under the Bank of America Loan. We anticipate that the BlueCrest Loan will need to be serviced and both the BlueCrest Loan and any amounts advanced by the Guarantors will need to be repaid with existing cash or cash generated from security or loan placements, if any. If we are unable to generate cash through additional financings, we may have to delay or curtail research, development and commercialization programs. In addition to the limitations imposed on our operational flexibility by the BlueCrest Loan as described above, the BlueCrest Loan, our obligations to the Guarantors, and any other indebtedness incurred by us could have significant additional negative consequences, including, without limitation: • requiring the dedication of a portion of our available cash to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of our cash available for other purposes, including funding our research and development programs and other capital expenditures; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; • limiting our ability to react to changes in technology or our business; and • placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage to less leveraged competitors. Risks Related to Product Development All of our biologic product candidates are in an early stage of development and we may never succeed in developing and/or commercializing them. We depend heavily on the success of our MyoCell product candidate. If we are unable to commercialize MyoCell or any of our other product candidates or experience significant delays in doing so, our business may fail. We have invested a significant portion of our efforts and financial resources in our MyoCell product candidate and depend heavily on its success. MyoCell is currently being tested in clinical trials. Even if MyoCell progresses through clinical trials as we anticipate, we do not expect MyoCell to be commercially available until, at the soonest, the second quarter of 2008. We need to devote significant additional research and development, financial resources and personnel to develop commercially viable products, obtain regulatory approvals and establish a sales and marketing infrastructure. We are likely to encounter hurdles and unexpected issues as we proceed in the development of MyoCell and our other product candidates. There are many reasons that we may not succeed in our efforts to develop our product candidates, including the possibility that: • our product candidates will be deemed ineffective, unsafe or will not receive regulatory approvals; • our product candidates will be too expensive to manufacture or market or will not achieve broad market acceptance; • others will hold proprietary rights that will prevent us from marketing our product candidates; or • our competitors will market products that are perceived as equivalent or superior. Risks Related to Commercialization of our Product Candidates Our success will depend in part on establishing and maintaining effective strategic partnerships, collaborations and licensing agreements. Our strategy for the development, testing, culturing and commercialization of our product candidates relies on 37 Table of Contents establishing and maintaining numerous collaborations with various corporate partners, consultants, scientists, researchers, licensors, licensees and others. While we are continually in discussions with a number of companies, universities, research institutions, consultants, scientists, researchers, licensors, licensees and others to establish additional relationships and collaborations, which are typically complex and time consuming to negotiate, document and implement, we may not reach definitive agreements with any of them. Even if we enter into these arrangements, we may not be able to maintain these relationships or establish new ones in the future on acceptable terms. Furthermore, any collaboration that we enter into may not be successful. The success of our collaboration arrangements, if any, will depend heavily on the efforts and activities of our collaborators. Possible future collaborations have risks, including the following: • our collaboration agreements are likely to be for fixed terms and subject to termination by our collaborators in the event of a material breach or lack of scientific progress by us; • our collaborators are likely to have the first right to maintain or defend our intellectual property rights and, although we would likely seek to secure the right to assume the maintenance and defense of our intellectual property rights if our collaborators do not, our ability to do so may be compromised by our collaborators’ acts or omissions; • our collaborators may utilize our intellectual property rights in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or invalidate our intellectual property rights or expose us to potential liability; • our collaborators may underfund or not commit sufficient resources to the testing, marketing, distribution or development of our product candidates; and • our collaborators may develop alternative products either on their own or in collaboration with others, or encounter conflicts of interest or changes in business strategy or other business issues, which could adversely affect their willingness or ability to fulfill their obligations to us. These arrangements also may require us to grant certain rights to third parties, including exclusive marketing rights to one or more products, or may have other terms that are burdensome to us, and may involve the issuance of our securities. If any of our partners terminates its relationship with us or fails to perform its obligations in a timely manner, the development or commercialization of our technology and product candidates may be substantially delayed. Further, disputes may arise with our collaborators about inventorship and corresponding rights in know-how and inventions resulting from the joint creation or use of intellectual property by us and our collaborators. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property We license substantially all of the intellectual property that is critical to our business. Any events or circumstances that result in the termination or limitation of our rights to such intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business. Substantially all of the intellectual property that is critical to our business has been licensed to us by various third parties. The operative terms of some of our material license agreements are subject to risks of dispute with our licensors. Additionally, it is possible that the patent protection for such intellectual property or the term of the license of such intellectual property to us may expire prior to our commercialization of the products that rely on that intellectual property. Under certain of our patent license agreements, we are subject to development, payment, commercialization and other obligations and, if we fail to comply with any of these requirements or otherwise breach those agreements, our licensors may have the right to terminate the license in whole or in part, terminate the exclusive nature of the license to the extent such license is exclusive or otherwise limit our rights thereunder, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 38 Table of Contents For instance, on March 9, 2007, Dr. Law and Cell Transplants Asia (an entity wholly owned by Dr. Law), filed a complaint against us and Howard J. Leonhardt, individually, in the United States District Court for the Western District of Tennessee alleging, among other things, certain breaches of our licensing agreement with them. On July 26, 2007, the court granted the motion to dismiss Mr. Leonhardt in his individual capacity but denied the motion to dismiss the claims against us. Dr. Law and Cell Transplants International are the licensors of the primary patent protecting MyoCell. See Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” for a description of this litigation. While the complaint does not appear to challenge our rights to license this patent and we believe this lawsuit is without merit, this litigation, if not resolved to the satisfaction of both parties, may adversely impact our relationship with Dr. Law and could, if resolved unfavorably to us, adversely affect our MyoCell commercialization efforts and have a significant negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Any termination or limitation of, or loss of exclusivity under, our exclusive or conditionally exclusive license agreements would have a material adverse effect on us and could delay or completely terminate our product development efforts. Risks Related to Our Common Stock An active, liquid and orderly trading market for our common stock may not develop. Prior to our initial public offering, there was no public market for our common stock. Our common stock commenced trading on the NASDAQ Global Market on February 19, 2008 and transferred to the NASDAQ Capital Market in June 2008. On October 15, 2008, we received notification from The NASDAQ Stock Market indicating that we were not in compliance with certain of the NASDAQ Capital Market continued listing requirements, including a minimum $35 million market value of our listed securities. We were permitted until November 14, 2008, to regain compliance with the minimum market value of listed securities requirement. On November 17, 2008, we received a NASDAQ Staff Determination indicating that we had failed to regain compliance with the $35 million minimum market value of listed securities requirement, and that our securities were, therefore, subject to delisting from The NASDAQ Capital Market. We appealed the Staff Determination and requested a hearing before a NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel (the “Panel”) to review the Staff Determination. This stayed the delisting of our securities pending the Panel’s decision. On February 25, 2009, we received notification from The NASDAQ Stock Market of its determination to discontinue our NASDAQ listing effective February 27, 2009. We are in the process of engaging a market maker for our common stock and causing the required application to be filed for quotation of our common stock on the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board. We cannot offer any assurance that an active trading market for our common stock will develop or how liquid that market may become. As a result, relatively small trades may have a disproportionate impact on the price of our common stock, which may contribute to the price volatility of our common stock and could limit your ability to sell your shares. The market price of our common stock could also be subject to wide fluctuations in response to many risk factors described in this section and other matters, including: • publications of clinical trial results by clinical investigators or others about our products and competitors’ products and/or our industry; • changes by securities analysts in financial estimates of our operating results and the operating results of our competitors; • publications of research reports by securities analysts about us, our competitors or our industry; • fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results; • retention and departures of key personnel; 39 Table of Contents • our failure or the failure of our competitors to meet analysts’ projections or guidance that we or our competitors may give to the market; • strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy; • the passage of legislation or other regulatory developments affecting us or our industry; • speculation in the press or investment community; and • natural disasters, terrorist acts, acts of war or periods of widespread civil unrest. Furthermore, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies, especially life sciences and pharmaceutical companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. As a result, the market price of our common stock is likely to be similarly volatile and investors in our common stock may experience a decrease, which could be substantial, in the value of their stock. In the past, many companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Anti-takeover provisions of Florida law, our articles of incorporation and our bylaws may prevent or delay an acquisition of us that shareholders may consider favorable or attempts to replace or remove our management that could be beneficial to our shareholders. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions, such as the right of our directors to issue preferred stock from time to time with voting, economic and other rights superior to those of our common stock without the consent of our shareholders, all of which could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. In addition, our bylaws impose restrictions on the persons who may call special shareholder meetings. Furthermore, the Florida Business Corporation Act contains an “affiliated transaction” provision that prohibits a publicly-held Florida corporation from engaging in a broad range of business combinations or other extraordinary corporate transactions with an “interested shareholder” unless, among others, (i) the transaction is approved by a majority of disinterested directors before the person becomes an interested shareholder; (ii) the interested shareholder has owned at least 80% of the corporation’s outstanding voting shares for at least five years; or (iii) the transaction is approved by the holders of two-thirds of the corporation’s voting shares other than those owned by the interested shareholder. An interested shareholder is defined as a person who together with affiliates and associates beneficially owns more than 10% of the corporation’s outstanding voting shares. The Florida Business Corporation Act also prohibits the voting of shares in a publicly-held Florida corporation that are acquired in a “control share acquisition” unless the holders of a majority of the corporation’s voting shares (exclusive of shares held by officers of the corporation, inside directors or the acquiring party) approve the granting of voting rights as to the shares acquired in the control share acquisition or unless the acquisition is approved by the corporation’s Board of Directors. These provisions may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company even if this change of control would benefit our shareholders. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future and, accordingly, capital appreciation of our common stock, if any, will be a shareholder’s sole source of gain from an investment in our common stock. Our policy is to retain earnings to provide funds for the operation and expansion of our business and, accordingly, we have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock or other securities and do not currently anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Consequently, shareholders will need to sell shares of our common stock to realize a return on their investments, if any and this capital appreciation, if any, will be a shareholder’s sole source of gain from an investment in the common stock. The declaration and payment of dividends by us are subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and the restrictions specified in our articles of incorporation and by applicable law. In addition, under the terms of the BlueCrest Loan, we are restricted from paying cash dividends to our shareholders 40 Table of Contents while this loan is outstanding. Any future determination to pay cash dividends will depend on our results of operations, financial condition, capital requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. Our common stock may be considered a “penny stock,” and thereby be subject to additional sale and trading regulations that may make it more difficult to sell. Our common stock may be considered to be a “penny stock” if it does not qualify for one of the exemptions from the definition of “penny stock” under Section 3a51-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. Our common stock may be a “penny stock” if it meets one or more of the following conditions (i) the stock trades at a price less than $5.00 per share; (ii) it is not traded on a “recognized” national exchange or (iii) it is not quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market, or has a price less than $5.00 per share. The principal result or effect of being designated a “penny stock” is that securities broker-dealers participating in sales of our common stock will be subject to the “penny stock” regulations set forth in Rules 15-2 through 15g-9 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act. For example, Rule 15g-2 requires broker-dealers dealing in penny stocks to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks and to obtain a manually signed and dated written receipt of the document at least two business days before effecting any transaction in a penny stock for the investor’s account. Moreover, Rule 15g-9 requires broker-dealers in penny stocks to approve the account of any investor for transactions in such stocks before selling any penny stock to that investor. This procedure requires the broker-dealer to (i) obtain from the investor information concerning his or her financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives; (ii) reasonably determine, based on that information, that transactions in penny stocks are suitable for the investor and that the investor has sufficient knowledge and experience as to be reasonably capable of evaluating the risks of penny stock transactions; (iii) provide the investor with a written statement setting forth the basis on which the broker-dealer made the determination in (ii) above; and (iv) receive a signed and dated copy of such statement from the investor, confirming that it accurately reflects the investor’s financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives. Compliance with these requirements may make it more difficult and time consuming for holders of our common stock to resell their shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them in the market or otherwise. 41 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 