Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business and an investment in our securities are subject to a variety of risks. The following risk factors describe the most significant events, facts or circumstances that could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to implement our business plan, and the market price for our securities. Many of these events are outside of our control. If any of these risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operation may be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and investors in our common stock could lose all or part of their investment. 9 Risks Related to Our Business We are a major purchaser of certain goods and raw materials that we use in the manufacturing process of our products, and price changes for the commodities we depend on may adversely affect our profitability. Our largest raw materials purchases consist of plastics (AS, PP and ABS resins, which are derived from petroleum), stainless steel and copper. As such, fluctuations in the price of oil, steel and copper on the international markets will impact our operating costs and related profits. International oil prices have risen recently. The price of most plastics moves in relation to oil prices and all electrical appliance manufacturers are affected by cost increases and benefit from decreases. Our profitability depends in part upon the margin between the cost to us of certain raw materials used in the manufacturing process, as well as our fabrication costs associated with converting such raw materials into assembled products, compared to the selling price of our products, and the overall supply of raw materials. We do not engage in hedging transactions to protect against raw material fluctuations, but attempt to mitigate the short-term risks of price swings by purchasing raw materials in advance. It is our intention to base the selling prices of our products in part upon the associated raw materials costs to us. However, we may not be able to pass all increases in raw material costs and ancillary acquisition costs associated with taking possession of the raw materials through to our customers. Although we are currently able to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials, it is impossible to predict future availability or pricing. The inability to offset price increases of raw materials by sufficient product price increases, and our inability to obtain raw materials, would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Fluctuation in exchange rates could adversely affect our business and the value of our securities. The value of our common stock will be indirectly affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and the Renminbi and between those currencies and other currencies in which our revenue may be denominated. Because a portion of our sales are currently made in the export market, and all of our earnings and cash assets are denominated in Renminbi, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Renminbi will affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business, financial condition or results of operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend. Since July 2005, the Renminbi has not been pegged to the U.S. dollar. Although the People’s Bank of China, which is the central bank of China, regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate, the Renminbi may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the medium to long term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future the PRC authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the Renminbi exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign exchange market. We currently do not engage in forward foreign exchange agreements or other hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. Hedging transactions that we may enter into in the future may have limited effectiveness, and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our foreign currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currencies. Loss of or failure to renew any or all of our licenses and permits may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In accordance with the laws and regulations of the PRC, we are required to maintain various licenses and permits in order to operate our electrical appliance products manufacturing business. We must maintain a Business License, Certificate of Approval for Establishment for Enterprises with Foreign Investment in the PRC and Organization Code Certificates for each of our PRC subsidiaries. Collectively, the Business Licenses of our PRC subsidiaries permits us to operate our electric appliance products manufacturing business and to sell our products domestically and internationally. In addition, all of our products must maintain China Compulsory Product Certifications, or CCC Authentications, which certifications are required before our products may be sold in China. We are also required to comply with applicable PRC hygiene and safety standards in relation to our production processes. Our production processes are subject to periodic inspections by PRC regulatory authorities for compliance with applicable regulations. While we currently maintain and intend to renew all required licenses before expiration, the loss of or failure to renew such licenses and production permits could result in the temporary or permanent suspension of some or all of our production or distribution operations and could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. We may experience material disruptions to our manufacturing operations, which could negatively impact our financial results. While we seek to operate our facilities in compliance with applicable rules and regulations and take measures to minimize the risks of disruption at our facilities, a material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and negatively impact our financial results. Any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including prolonged power failures; equipment failures; disruptions in the transportation infrastructure including roads, bridges, railroad tracks; and fires, floods, earthquakes, acts of war or other catastrophes. 10 We cannot be certain that our product innovations and marketing successes will continue, which could adversely affect our business. We believe our past performance has been based on, and our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to continue to improve our existing products through product innovation and to develop, market and produce new products. We cannot assure you we will be successful in introducing, marketing and producing any new products or product innovations, or that we will develop and introduce in a timely manner innovations to our existing products which satisfy customer needs or achieve market acceptance. Our failure to develop new products and introduce them successfully and in a timely manner could harm our ability to grow our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to keep pace with rapid technological changes and competition in our industry, which could reduce our sales and cause us to lose market share. While we believe we have hired or engaged personnel and outside consultants who have the experience and ability necessary to keep pace with advances in technology, and while we continue to seek out and develop “next generation” technology through our research and development efforts, there is no guarantee we will be able to keep pace with technological developments and market demands in this evolving industry and market. In addition, our industry is highly competitive. We face competition from other manufacturers of products similar to our products, often from competitors with substantially more capital and other resources. Some of our competitors’ advantages over us in both the areas of products, marketing, and services include the following:  substantially greater revenues and financial resources;  stronger brand names and consumer recognition;  the capacity to leverage marketing expenditures across a broader portfolio of products;  pre-existing relationships with potential customers;  more resources to make acquisitions;  lower labor and development costs; and  broader geographic presence. We will face different market dynamics and competition as we expand our market to new countries. In some export markets, our future competitors would have greater brand recognition and broader distribution than we currently enjoy. We may not be as successful as our competitors in generating revenues in those markets due to our inability to provide products that are attractive to the market in those countries, the lack of recognition of our brand, and other factors. As a result, any new expansion efforts could be more costly and less profitable than our efforts in our existing markets. If we are not as successful as our competitors in our target markets, our sales could decline, our margins could be negatively impacted and we could lose market share, any of which could materially harm our business. Our products may contain defects, which could adversely affect our reputation and cause us to incur significant costs. Despite testing by us, defects may be found in existing or new products. Any such defects could cause us to incur significant return and exchange costs, re-engineering costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from product development efforts, and cause significant customer relations and business reputation problems. Any such defects could force us to undertake a product recall program, which could cause us to incur significant expenses and could harm our reputation and that of our products. If we deliver defective products, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our products could be harmed. Our position in the marketplace could be negatively impacted if we experience delays in launching our products. We may experience delays in bringing new products to market, due to design, manufacturing or distribution problems. Such delays could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively and may adversely affect our relationship with our customers. Any such delays would adversely affect our revenues and profitability. 11 If we are not able to manage our growth, we may not be profitable. Our success will depend on our ability to expand and manage our operations and facilities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our growth, meet the staffing requirements for our business or for additional collaborative relationships or successfully assimilate and train new employees. In addition, to manage our growth effectively, we may be required to expand our management base and enhance our operating and financial systems. If we continue to grow, there can be no assurance our management skills and systems currently in place will be adequate. Moreover, there can be no assurance we will be able to manage any additional growth effectively. Failure to achieve any of these goals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our inability to successfully manage the inherent risks in our domestic and export activities could adversely affect our business. Because of the risks associated with conducting such operations, including the risks listed above, there can be no assurances that any new market expansion will be successful. We and our subsidiaries only have a perpetual, exclusive, worldwide and royalty-free license to use certain patents and trademarks used in our business, which could require us to litigate or arbitrate to retain such license rights if the licensors contest the license agreement. We and our subsidiaries have historically licensed the right to use patents and trademarks from various parties, including from our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Ying He, his brother, FaMin He, Shenzhen De Mei Long Electric Appliances Co., Ltd. and Shenzhen Kafu Industrial Co., Ltd. In December 2008, we entered into transfer agreements that intended to transfer patents and trademarks used by us from Messrs. He and He, Shenzhen De Mei Long Electric Appliances Co., Ltd. and Shenzhen Kafu Industrial Co., Ltd., to Winder. Any transfer of the ownership of patents and trademarks in China requires that the transfer agreements be registered with the State Intellectual Property Office of the PRC and the China Trademark Office under the State Administration of Industry and Commerce of the PRC, respectively. In the absence of such registration, the transfers would be ineffective under PRC law. To clarify the transfer and safeguard our right to use these patents and trademarks, Winder has entered into a supplemental agreement to such transfer agreements whereby the original intellectual property holders clarified that a transfer of ownership was intended and that Winder has a license to use the patents and trademarks which will continue on a perpetual, exclusive, worldwide and royalty-free basis, and which may not be cancelled by the licensor or grantor until such time as the ownership of such patents and trademarks are effectively transferred to Winder. This license is set forth in a supplemental agreement entered into between the Company and the aforementioned licensors on November 19, 2009, and filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on November 20, 2009. Because we have been relying on such license, which is sufficient to grant all rights necessary for us to conduct operations, we have not taken any steps to register the transfer of the above-mentioned patents and trademarks, nor do we intend to do so. However, if any of the licensors contests the supplemental agreement, our business may be adversely affected as Winder may have to litigate or arbitrate to retain such license rights. We may not be able to protect our technology and other proprietary rights adequately, and litigation to protect our proprietary rights may be costly. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and protect our products, methods, processes and other technologies, to preserve our trade secrets and to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties both domestically and abroad. Despite our efforts, any of the following occurrences may reduce the value of our owned and used intellectual property: o issued patents and trademarks that we own or have the right to use may not provide us with any competitive advantages; o our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights may not be effective in preventing misappropriation of our technology or that of those from whom we license our rights to use; o our efforts may not prevent the development and design by others of products or technologies similar to, competitive with or superior to those we use or develop; or o another party may obtain a blocking patent and we or our licensors would need to either obtain a license or design around the patent in order to continue to offer the contested feature or service in our products. Effective protection of intellectual property rights may be unavailable or limited in China or certain other countries. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights adequately, it would have a negative impact on our operations. 12 We or the owners of the intellectual property rights licensed to us may be subject to claims that we or such licensors have infringed the proprietary rights of others, which could require us and our licensors to obtain a license or change designs. Although we do not believe that any of our products infringe upon the proprietary rights of others, there is no assurance that infringement or invalidity claims, or claims for indemnification resulting from infringement claims, will not be asserted or prosecuted against us or those from whom we have licenses or that any such assertions or prosecutions will not have a material adverse effect on our business. Regardless of whether any such claims are valid or can be asserted successfully, defending against such claims could cause us to incur significant costs and could divert resources away from our other activities. In addition, assertion of infringement claims could result in injunctions that prevent us from distributing our products. If any claims or actions are asserted against us or those from whom we have licenses, we may seek to obtain a license to the intellectual property rights that are in dispute. Such a license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all, which could force us to change our designs. We face risks associated with managing international operations, any of which could adversely affect our business. Almost all of our operations are conducted in China. There are a number of risks inherent in doing business in such market, including the following: o unfavorable political or economic factors; o fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; o potentially adverse tax consequences; o unexpected legal or regulatory changes; o lack of sufficient protection for intellectual property rights; o difficulties in recruiting and retaining personnel, and managing international operations; and o less developed infrastructure Our inability to manage the inherent risks in our domestic activities successfully could adversely affect our business. We face risks associated with a purported securities class action lawsuit, which if successful, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and could harm our reputation. On April 29, 2011, a purported securities class action lawsuit on behalf of the purchasers of the Company’s common stock between March 31, 2009, and March 21, 2011, James Rose v. Deer Consumer Products, Inc. et al, was filed against the Company and certain of its current and former officers and directors in the United States District Court for the Central District of California. The court has not yet certified the class action status. The complaint alleges violations of Section 10(b) and Rule 10b-5 of the Exchange Act, as well as, in the case of the individual defendants, the Section 20(a) control person provisions of the Exchange Act. The factual assertions in the complaint consist primarily of allegations that the defendants made materially false or misleading public statements concerning the Company’s financial condition in 2010 and 2009. The complaint seeks unspecified damages and other relief relating to the purported inflation in the price of the Company’s common stock during the class period. Any adverse decision in this action, requiring the Company to pay substantial damages to the plaintiffs could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and could harm our reputation. Please see Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” for additional information with respect to this matter. 13 Our bank accounts are not insured or protected against loss. We maintain our cash with various national banks located in China. Our cash accounts are not insured or otherwise protected. Should any bank holding our cash deposits become insolvent, or if we are otherwise unable to withdraw funds, we would lose the cash on deposit with that particular bank. We have limited business insurance coverage and may incur losses due to business interruptions resulting from natural and man-made disasters, and our insurance may not be adequate to cover liabilities resulting from accidents or injuries that may occur. The insurance industry in China is still in an early stage of development and insurance companies located in China offer limited business insurance products. In the event of damage or loss to our properties, our insurance may not provide as much coverage as if we were insured by insurance companies in the United States. We currently carry property and casualty insurance for our buildings, plant and equipment but cannot assure you that the coverage will be adequate to fully replace damage to any of the foregoing. Should any natural catastrophes such as earthquakes, floods or any acts of terrorism occur where our primary operations are located and most of our employees are based, or elsewhere, we might suffer not only significant property damage, but also loss of revenues due to interruptions in our business operations. The occurrence of a significant event for which we are not fully insured or indemnified, or the failure of a party to meet its underwriting or indemnification obligations, could materially and adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable. Our business could be subject to environmental liabilities in China, which could result in our incurring significant remediation costs, fines and loss of our business license. As is the case with manufacturers of similar products, we use certain hazardous substances in our operations. Currently, our business is subject to the National Environmental Protection Law of the PRC as well as local laws regarding pollutant discharge, air, water and noise pollution. Although we believe we are in compliance in all material respects with the environmental laws and regulations of the municipal and provincial authorities in Shenzhen and the PRC, if it is determined that we are in violation of these regulations, we could be subject to financial penalties as well as the loss of our business license. Furthermore, if the national or local government adopts more stringent environmental regulations, we may incur significant costs in complying with such regulations. If we fail to comply with present or future environmental regulations, we may be required to pay substantial fines, suspend production or cease operations and may be subject to adverse publicity. We currently do not incur any material costs in connection with our compliance with environmental laws as our manufacturing processes generate minimal discharge and we recycle and reuse much of our manufacturing waste materials. However, the risk of environmental liability and charges associated with maintaining compliance with environmental laws is inherent in the nature of our business, and there is no assurance that material environmental liabilities and compliance charges will not arise in the future. We may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals for our products, which could result in unexpected expenses and adversely affect our business. The PRC and local provincial governments regulate the manufacture and sale of our products in China, and our products for export markets are subject to product labeling standards of certain international agencies. Although our licenses and regulatory filings in China are up-to-date, the uncertain legal environment in China and our industry may be vulnerable to local government agencies or other parties who wish to renegotiate the terms and conditions of, or terminate their agreements or other understandings with us. Failure to obtain or maintain, or any delay in obtaining, any of these licenses, product safety approvals and regulatory filings may subject us to fines, penalties or business interruption, and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. If we lose our key personnel, or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified personnel, the quality of our services may decline and our business may be adversely affected. We rely heavily on the expertise, experience and continued services of our senior management, including our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Ying He. Loss of his services could adversely affect our ability to achieve our business objectives. Mr. He is a key factor in our success at developing and introducing new products and establishing new customer relationships because of his industry experience and reputation. The continued development of our business depends upon the continued employment of Mr. He. We have entered into standard China domestic labor contracts with Mr. He and our Chief Financial Officer, Zongshu Nie, which contain provisions prohibiting competition by Messrs. He and Nie following their employment with us. Mr. He’s labor contract expires March 2, 2013, and Mr. Nie’s labor contract expires April 30, 2012. We believe our future success will depend upon our ability to retain key employees and our ability to attract and retain other skilled personnel. The rapid growth of the economy in China has caused intense competition for qualified personnel. We cannot guarantee that any employee will remain employed by us for any definite period of time or that we will be able to attract, train or retain qualified personnel in the future. Such loss of personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and company. Moreover, qualified employees periodically are in great demand and may be unavailable in the time frame required to satisfy our customers’ requirements. We need to employ additional personnel to expand our business. There is no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain sufficient numbers of highly skilled employees in the future. The loss of personnel or our inability to hire or retain sufficient personnel at competitive rates could impair the growth of our business. 14 If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to report financial results accurately or prevent fraud. Effective internal controls are necessary to provide reliable financial reports and to assist in the effective prevention of fraud. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud could harm our business. We must evaluate our internal procedures annually to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires management and auditors to assess the effectiveness of our internal controls. If we fail to remedy or maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties or shareholder litigation. In addition, failure to maintain effective internal controls could result in financial statements that do not accurately reflect our financial condition or results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain a system of internal controls that fully complies with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or that our management and independent registered public accounting firm will conclude that our internal controls are effective in the future. We are a holding company that depends on cash flow from our wholly owned subsidiaries to meet our obligations, and any inability of our subsidiaries to pay us dividends or make other payments to us when needed could disrupt or have a negative impact on our business. After the Share Exchange, we became a holding company with no material assets other than the stock of our wholly owned subsidiaries. Accordingly, all our operations are conducted by our wholly owned subsidiaries in China: Winder, which is responsible for research, production and delivery of goods; Delta, which transferred its material former operations to Winder and conducts marketing operations; and Deer Technology and Anlin Technology, which have yet to commence operations. Although we currently expect that the earnings and cash flow of our subsidiaries will primarily be retained and used by us in their operations, we rely on dividends paid by our subsidiaries for our cash needs, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, to service any debt we may incur and to pay some of our operating expenses. China has currency and capital transfer regulations that require us to comply with complex regulations for the movement of capital. Regulations in China currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in China. We also are required to set aside at least 10% of our net income after taxes based on China’s accounting standards each year to statutory surplus reserves until the cumulative amount of such reserves reaches 50% of registered capital. At December 31, 2011, we had set aside $9.2 million for statutory reserve and $4.6 million as development fund reserve. Statutory reserve is a mandatory reserve, after making up cumulative prior years’ losses, and to be reserved at least 10% of income after tax, until the reserve amounts to 50% of our registered capital. Development fund is a discretionary surplus reserve; we allocate 5% of income after tax as development fund. The development fund is for enlarging its business and increasing capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. Our PRC subsidiaries also may allocate a portion of their after-tax profits to their staff welfare and bonus funds, which may not be distributed to equity owners except in the event of liquidation. In addition, if any of our subsidiaries incur debt, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Accordingly, if our subsidiaries are unable to pay us dividends and make other payments to us when needed because of regulatory restrictions or otherwise, we may be materially and adversely limited in our ability to make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends or otherwise fund and conduct our business. Risks Related to Business in China We are subject to international economic and political risks over which we have little or no control and may be unable to alter our business practice in time to avoid the possibility of reduced revenues. Our business is conducted in China. Doing business outside the United States, particularly in China, subjects us to various risks, including changing economic and political conditions, major work stoppages, exchange controls, currency fluctuations, armed conflicts and unexpected changes in United States and foreign laws relating to tariffs, trade restrictions, transportation regulations, foreign investments and taxation. We have no control over most of these risks and may be unable to anticipate changes in international economic and political conditions and, therefore, unable to alter our business practice in time to avoid the possibility of reduced revenues as a result of any of these risks materializing. China’s economic policies could affect our business. Substantially all of our assets are located in China and all of our revenue is derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our results of operations and prospects are subject, to a significant extent, to the economic, political and legal developments in China. While China’s economy has experienced significant growth in the past twenty years, such growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall economy of China, but they may also have a negative effect on us. For example, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected by the government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations. The economy of China has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. In recent years, the PRC government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform and the reduction of state ownership of productive assets, and the establishment of corporate governance in business enterprises; however, a substantial portion of productive assets in China are still owned by the PRC government. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. It also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, the control of payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, the setting of monetary policy and the provision of preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth in China, which in turn could lead to reduced demand for our products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business. 15 Tax laws and regulations in China are subject to substantial revision, some of which may adversely affect our profitability. The PRC corporate tax regime continues to undergo substantial revision. Tax benefits we presently enjoy may not be available to us in the wake of these changes, and we could incur tax obligations to the PRC government that are significantly higher than currently anticipated. These increased tax obligations could negatively impact our financial condition and our revenues, gross margins, profitability and results of operations may be adversely affected as a result. Certain preferential tax treatment that we presently enjoy in China is scheduled to expire over the next several years, and if we are unable to renew such treatment, our net income may be adversely affected. As a substantial portion of our operations are located in a privileged economic zone, we are entitled to certain tax benefits. The Company’s operating subsidiary Winder, operates in the Yangjiang Hi-Tech Industry Development Zone, while Deer Technology and Anlin Technology operate in the Wuhu Hi-Tech Industry Development Zone. When these exemptions expire, our income tax expenses will increase, reducing our net income below what it would be if we continued to enjoy these exemptions. Since 2009, we have been granted a special tax rate of 15% for our efforts to automate production at our factory. The tax authority and government entities examine productivity per employee and other operating metrics to determine our eligibility for special tax treatment. Our tax treatment was approved for renewal for another three years, expiring on December 31, 2014, and can be renewed prior to expiration following a re-assessment of our efforts in automating production and determination of future eligibilities for special tax treatment. We would pay the common 25% corporate income tax rate instead of the special 15% corporate income tax rate if the special tax treatment is not renewed. Our current special tax may be renewed by filing an application for a renewal with the Tax Bureau of the Hi-Tech Industry Development Zone. Whether or not renewal is granted depends upon the Tax Bureau’s assessment of our efforts in automating production at our factory and our productivity per employee. If relations between the United States and China worsen, investors may be unwilling to hold or buy our stock and our stock price may decrease. At various times during recent years, the United States and China have had significant disagreements over political and economic issues. Controversies may arise in the future between these two countries. Any political or trade controversies between the United States and China, whether or not directly related to our business, could reduce the price of our common stock. China could change its policies toward private enterprise or even nationalize or expropriate private enterprises. Our business is subject to significant political and economic uncertainties and may be affected by political, economic and social developments in China. Over the past several years, the PRC government has pursued economic reform policies including the encouragement of private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. The PRC government may not continue to pursue these policies or may significantly alter them to our detriment from time to time with little, if any, prior notice. Changes in policies, laws and regulations or in their interpretation or the imposition of confiscatory taxation, restrictions on currency conversion, restrictions or prohibitions on dividend payments to shareholders, or devaluations of currency could cause a decline in the price of our common stock. Nationalization or expropriation could even result in the total loss of your investment. The nature and application of many laws of China create an uncertain environment for business operations and they could have a negative effect on us. The legal system in China is a civil law system. Unlike the common law system, the civil law system is based on written statutes in which decided legal cases have little value as precedents. In 1979, China began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and has since introduced many laws and regulations to provide general guidance on economic and business practices in China and to regulate foreign investment. Progress has been made in the promulgation of laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. The promulgation of new laws, changes of existing laws and the abrogation of local regulations by national laws could cause a decline in the price of our common stock. In addition, as these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent, their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainty. Furthermore, the political, governmental and judicial systems in China are sometimes impacted by corruption. There is no assurance we will be able to obtain recourse in any legal disputes with suppliers, customers or other parties with whom we conduct business, if desired, through China’s poorly developed and sometimes corrupt judicial systems. 16 As we import goods into and export goods out of China, fluctuation of the Renminbi may affect our financial condition by affecting the volume of cross-border money flow. Although we use the U.S. dollar for financial reporting purposes, most of the transactions effected by our operating subsidiaries are denominated in China’s Renminbi. The value of the Renminbi fluctuates and is subject to changes in China’s political and economic conditions. Future movements in the exchange rate of the Renminbi could adversely affect our financial condition as we may suffer financial losses when transferring money raised outside of China into the country or paying vendors for services performed outside of China. It will be extremely difficult to acquire jurisdiction and enforce liabilities against our officers, directors and assets based in China. As our executive officers and several of our directors, including the Chairman of our Board of Directors, are PRC citizens, it may be difficult, if not impossible, to acquire jurisdiction over these persons. Also, because our operating subsidiaries and assets are located in China, it may be extremely difficult or impossible for individuals to access those assets to enforce judgments rendered against us or our directors or executive offices by United States courts. In addition, the courts in China may not permit the enforcement of judgments arising out of United States federal and state corporate, securities or similar laws. Accordingly, United States investors may not be able to enforce judgments against us for violation of United States securities laws. PRC regulations relating to mergers, offshore companies and PRC shareholders, if applied to us, may limit our ability to operate our business as we see fit. PRC regulations govern the process by which we may participate in an acquisition of assets or equity interests. Depending on the structure of the transaction, these regulations require involved parties to make a series of applications and supplemental applications to various government agencies. In some instances, the application process may require the presentation of economic data concerning a transaction, including appraisals of the target business and evaluations of the acquirer, which are designed to allow the government to assess the transaction. Government approvals will have expiration dates by which a transaction must be completed and reported to the government agencies. Compliance with these regulations is likely to be time consuming and expensive as the government can exert control over the combination of two businesses. Accordingly, due to PRC regulations, our ability to engage in business combination transactions in China through our PRC subsidiaries is significantly complicated, time consuming and expensive, and we may not be able to negotiate transactions that are acceptable to us or sufficiently protective of our interests. We operate in the PRC through our WFOE status initially approved by the local office of the PRC Ministry of Commerce. However, we cannot warrant that such approval procedures will continue to be considered completely satisfied should there be changes in laws or government interpretations. If we lose our WFOE status for any reason, our business in China may be negatively impacted. Our operating entities in the PRC have received initial approval for WFOE status from the Yangjiang Administration for Industry & Commerce, or MOFCOM’s Local Counterpart. We believe that we currently are in compliance with the MOFCOM’s requirements to maintain the WFOE status of our PRC subsidiaries and we are not aware of any change in interpretations or differences in understandings with respect to WFOE approval procedures that would jeopardize such approvals. However, we cannot assure you that such approval procedures or understanding will not change in the future. If in the future our PRC subsidiaries lose their WFOE status, we would have to find a way to re-establish control of our PRC operations through a series of contractual arrangements rather than an outright purchase. We cannot assure you that any such contractual arrangements will be protected by PRC law or that we can receive as complete or effective economic benefit and overall control of our PRC subsidiaries. In addition, we cannot assure you that any such contractual arrangements can be successfully effected under PRC law. If we cannot put in place or enforce relevant contractual arrangements as an alternative and equivalent means of control of our PRC subsidiaries, our business and financial performance will be materially and adversely affected. The acquisition by Deer International of Winder in 2008 may require further approval, and failure to receive such approval could adversely affect our business and financial performance. On April 1, 2008, Deer International acquired 100% of the equity interest in Winder from 50HZ Electric Limited. While we believe that the April 2008 acquisition of Winder by Deer International did not require approval from the PRC Ministry of Commerce, or MOFCOM, the application and implementation of the Regulation on Mergers and Acquisition of Domestic Companies by Foreign Investors, or M&A Regulations, is unclear and subject to differing interpretations. The M&A Regulations have a particular provision which requires MOFCOM’s approval if a PRC domestic non-foreign-invested enterprise or natural person acquires an affiliated PRC company in the name of an offshore enterprise established or controlled by such enterprise or person. Ying He, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, his brother FaMin He and Bao Zhi Li, shareholders of the Company, simultaneously controlled Deer International and 50HZ Electric Limited at the time of Deer International’s acquisition of Winder from 50HZ Electric Limited. We obtained a legal opinion from our PRC counsel, GuangDong Tuo Jin Law Firm, stating that MOFCOM approval of the April 2008 acquisition of Winder by Deer International was not required. In addition, the transaction was approved by the Economic Development Bureau of Yangjiang High-tech Industry Development Zone. If it is subsequently determined that that approval of MOFCOM is required, the approval that 50HZ Electric Limited obtained from the Yangjiang Hi-Tech Zone may be deemed incomplete and the transferee, namely Deer International, may need to obtain further approval from MOFCOM. 17 MOFCOM could also invalidate the April 2008 acquisition of Winder by Deer International, in which case, we would have to find a way for Deer International to re-establish control of Winder’s business operations through a series of contractual arrangements rather than an outright purchase. We cannot assure you that any such contractual arrangements will be protected by PRC law or that Deer International can receive as complete or effective economic benefit and overall control of Winder equivalent to Deer International having direct ownership of Winder. In addition, we cannot assure you that any such contractual arrangements can be successfully effected under PRC law. If we cannot obtain MOFCOM or CSRC approval if required by the PRC regulatory authorities to do so, and if we cannot put in place or enforce relevant contractual arrangements as an alternative and equivalent means of control of Winder, our business and financial performance will be materially adversely affected. The acquisition by Deer International of Winder in 2008 may face PRC tax authority challenges and be subject to transfer pricing adjustment. The acquisition of 100% of Winder’s equity interests by Deer International on April 1, 2008, was free of any consideration and of any conditions. Under applicable PRC tax rules, any transaction between related parties shall be priced on an arm’s length basis. The tax authority has the right to investigate any related party transaction and to make adjustment if it finds the price not on an arm’s length basis. The PRC tax authority would make adjustment by applying a deemed arm’s length price to the transaction. Given that 50HZ Electric Limited and Deer International had certain related parties, there is a possibility that the consideration-free transfer may be challenged and investigated by the PRC tax authority. If the deemed arm’s length price determined by the PRC tax authority during such investigation is higher than the original cost that 50HZ Electric Limited paid to get 100% equity interest of Winder, such excess amount would be subject to a 20% PRC income tax. Although we believe 50HZ Electric Limited would be responsible for the possible PRC income tax, we understand that it is common practice for the PRC tax authority to enforce the tax collection on the entity at issue, which in this case would be Winder, and we may be required to pay the possible PRC income tax on behalf of 50HZ Electric Limited. If the CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency determines that its approval is required in connection with our public offerings, we may become subject to penalties. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, including the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or CSRC, MOFCOM, the State-Owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, or SASAC, the State Administration of Taxation, or SAT, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, or SAIC, and SAFE jointly promulgated the Regulation on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Companies by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Regulations, which became effective on September 8, 2006, and was amended on June 22, 2009. The M&A Regulations, among other things, have certain provisions that require offshore special purpose vehicles, or SPVs, formed or controlled for the purpose of overseas listing of interests of PRC domestic non-foreign-invested companies controlled by PRC domestic non-foreign invested companies or individuals, to obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to listing their securities on an overseas stock exchange. We believe, based on the opinion of our PRC legal counsel, the GuangDong Tuo Jin Law Firm, that while the CSRC generally has jurisdiction over overseas listings of companies like us, CSRC’s approval is not required for the offerings of our securities because our current corporate structure was established before the new regulations became effective. However, there remains some uncertainty as to how these regulations will be interpreted or implemented in the context of an overseas offering. If the CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency subsequently determines that its approval is required for our public offerings, we may face sanctions by the CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency. If this happens, these regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, delay or restrict the repatriation of the proceeds from our offerings into the PRC, restrict or prohibit payment or remittance of dividends by our PRC subsidiaries to us or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our common stock. In addition, Under Circular 10, captioned as “Regulation on Mergers and Acquisition of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors,” which became effective on September 6, 2006, an offshore special purpose vehicle, or SPV, formed for purposes of overseas listing of equity interests in China-based companies and controlled directly or indirectly by Chinese companies or individuals must obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to the listing of such SPV’s securities on an overseas stock exchange. Circular 10 also requires approval from MOFCOM for “round-trip” investment transactions in which a China-based company or a PRC resident, or Acquirer, using an offshore entity controlled by the Acquirer, acquires any PRC local company that is an affiliate of the Acquirer. Because Winder was a wholly foreign owned enterprise at the time of the acquisition by Deer International and prior to the effective date of Circular 10, we believe that it does need to initiate an application for retroactive recognition by the CSRC for its shares to be listed and traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents and registration requirements for PRC resident shareholders owning shares in offshore companies as well as registration requirements of employee stock ownership plans or share option plans may subject our PRC resident shareholders to personal liability and limit our ability to acquire companies in China or to inject capital into our operating subsidiaries in China, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us or otherwise materially and adversely affect us. SAFE issued a public notice in October 2005 (“Circular 75”) requiring PRC residents, including both legal persons and natural persons, to register with the competent local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China, referred to as an “offshore special purpose company,” for the purpose of acquiring any assets of or equity interest in PRC companies and raising funds from overseas. In addition, any PRC resident who is the shareholder of an offshore special purpose company is required to amend his or her SAFE registration with the local SAFE branch, with respect to that offshore special purpose company in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, merger, division, equity investment or creation of any security interest over any assets located in China. If any PRC resident who is the shareholder of an offshore special purpose company fails to comply with the SAFE registration requirements, the PRC subsidiaries of the offshore special purpose company may be prohibited from distributing their profits and proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to their offshore parent company and the offshore parent company may be restricted in its ability to contribute additional capital into its PRC subsidiaries. Moreover, failure to comply with the SAFE registration requirements could result in liabilities under PRC laws for evasion of foreign exchange restrictions. We cannot predict fully how Circular 75 will affect our business operations or future strategies because of ongoing uncertainty over how Circular 75 will be interpreted and implemented, and how or whether SAFE will apply it to us. Although we believe that our PRC subsidiaries are in compliance with these regulations, should these regulations or the interpretation of them by courts or regulatory agencies change, we may not be able to pay dividends outside of China. We do not believe that we have incurred a liability because of noncompliance with Circular 75 under SAFE registration procedures, however. 18 Our PRC resident beneficial owners, including our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, have registered with the local SAFE branch as required under SAFE regulations in connection with their equity interests in us and our acquisitions of equity interests in our PRC subsidiaries. We cannot provide any assurances that the existing registrations of these PRC resident beneficial owners have fully complied with all applicable registrations or required approvals. We have little control over either our present or prospective direct or indirect PRC resident beneficial owners or the outcome of such registration procedures. The failure or inability of our PRC resident beneficial owners to comply with the applicable SAFE registration requirements may subject these beneficial owners or us to fines, legal sanctions and restrictions described above. On March 28, 2007, SAFE released detailed registration procedures for employee stock ownership plans or share option plans to be established by overseas listed companies and for individual plan participants. Any failure to comply with the relevant registration procedures may affect the effectiveness of our employee stock ownership plans or share option plans and subjects the plan participants, the companies offering the plans or the relevant intermediaries, as the case may be, to penalties under PRC foreign exchange regime. These penalties may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, prevent us from being able to make distributions or pay dividends, as a result of which our business operations and our ability to distribute profits could be materially and adversely affected. PRC regulation of direct investment by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or prevent us from transferring the net proceeds from future offerings to our PRC subsidiaries. On August 29, 2008, SAFE promulgated the Circular on the Relevant Operating Issues Concerning the Improvement of the Administration of the Payment and Settlement of Foreign Currency Capital of Foreign Invested Enterprises, or SAFE Circular 142, regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested enterprise of foreign currency registered capital into Renminbi by restricting how the converted Renminbi may be used. SAFE Circular 142 provides that the Renminbi capital converted from foreign currency registered capital of a foreign-invested enterprise may only be used within the business scope approved by the applicable governmental authority and may not be used for equity investments within the PRC, unless specifically provided for otherwise in its business scope. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of the Renminbi capital converted from foreign currency registered capital of a foreign-invested company. The use of such Renminbi capital may not be altered without SAFE approval, and such Renminbi capital may not in any case be used to repay Renminbi loans if the proceeds of such loans have not been used. If we raise any funds in the United States in the future, we expect that if we convert the net proceeds into Renminbi pursuant to SAFE Circular 142, our use of Renminbi funds will be for purposes within the approved business scope of our PRC subsidiaries. Such business scope permits our PRC subsidiaries to operate our electrical appliance products manufacturing business. However, if it is subsequently determined that our use of Renminbi funds are not within our approved business scope, or the applicable rules change, we may experience delays in transferring the proceeds from any future offerings to our PRC subsidiaries, which would adversely and materially affect our liquidity and ability to expand our business. Our PRC subsidiaries have taken the position that they do not have to contribute to a statutory housing fund for their employees and if that position turns out to be wrong, they may face penalties imposed by the PRC government. PRC laws require employers contribute to a statutory housing fund for their employees holding urban resident status and that those employees contribute equal amounts to the same housing fund. Failure to do so may trigger penalties by the competent government authorities in addition to making up the deficiencies within a time limit prescribed by the PRC government. We believe our PRC subsidiaries do not have to pay into a statutory housing fund for their employees because of their exempt status. However, if that belief turns out to be wrong, they may face penalties imposed by the PRC government for their noncompliance. Our compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act may put us at a competitive disadvantage, while our failure to comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act may result in substantial penalties. We are required to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”), which prohibits U.S. companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Although we inform our personnel that such practices are illegal, we cannot assure you that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties. Non-U.S. companies, including some of our competitors, are not subject to the provisions of the FCPA. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time to time in mainland China. If our competitors engage in these practices, they may receive preferential treatment from personnel of some companies, giving our competitors an advantage in securing business or from government officials who might give them priority in obtaining new licenses, which would put us at a disadvantage. 19 Risks Related to Our Securities The market price for our common stock has been and may be volatile, which could make it more difficult or impossible for you to sell our common stock for a positive return on your investment. The trading price of our common stock has and may continue to fluctuate widely in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include, but not limited to, our quarterly operating results or the operating results of other companies in our industry, announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, new products, product improvements, commercial relationships, intellectual property, legal, regulatory or other business developments and changes in financial estimates or recommendations by stock market analysts regarding us or our competitors. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for companies based in China in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated or disproportionate to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may materially affect our stock price, regardless of our operating results. Further, the market for our common stock is limited and we cannot assure you that a larger market will ever be developed or maintained. Market fluctuations and volatility, as well as general economic, market and political conditions, could reduce our market price. As a result, these factors may make it more difficult or impossible for you to sell our common stock for a positive return on your investment. Our quarterly results may be volatile, which could materially affect the per share price of our common stock. Our operating results have varied quarterly during our operating history and are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future. Many factors, including the risk factors incorporated by reference herein, could cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly in the future. Many of these factors are outside of our control. Accordingly, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful. Investors should not rely on the results of one quarter as an indication of our future performance. If our results of operations in any quarter do not meet analysts’ expectations, our stock price could materially decrease. Future sales of shares of our common stock by our shareholders could cause our stock price to decline. Future sales of shares of our common stock could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our stock. If our significant shareholders sell a large number of shares, or if we issue a large number of shares, the market price of our stock could decline significantly. Moreover, the perception in the public market that shareholders might sell shares of our stock could depress the market for our shares. Our shareholders who received shares of our common stock issued in the Share Exchange are subject to lockup agreements that prohibit their sale of all shares of our common stock held currently or acquired by them in the future to the general public until January 17, 2013, except in the event of a change of control or sale of the company. Upon the termination of these lockup agreements the existence of such shares could create a circumstance commonly referred to as an “overhang,” in anticipation of which the market price of our common stock could fall. The existence of an overhang, whether or not sales have occurred or are occurring, also could make it more difficult for us to raise additional financing through the sale of equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem reasonable or appropriate. 20 We may issue additional shares of our capital stock or debt securities to raise capital or complete acquisitions, which would reduce the equity interest of our shareholders. Our articles of incorporation authorize the issuance of up to 75,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $.001 per share. As of December 31, 2011, there were 40,907,438 authorized and unissued shares of our common stock available for future issuance, based on 33,592,562 shares of our common stock outstanding and our reservation of 500,000 shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding options and available for grants pursuant to our 2009 Equity Incentive Plan. Although we have no commitments as of this date to issue our securities in connection with an acquisition or to raise capital, we may do so in the future. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock may significantly reduce the equity interest of our existing shareholders and adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Our principal shareholder has the ability to exert significant control in matters requiring a shareholder vote and could delay, deter or prevent a change of control in our company. As of December 31, 2011, Ying He, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and our largest shareholder, beneficially owned 25.45% of our outstanding shares. Mr. He possesses significant influence over us, giving him the ability, among other things, to exercise significant control over the election of all or a majority of the Board of Directors and to approve significant corporate transactions. Such stock ownership and control may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a future change in control, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. Without the consent of Mr. He, we could be prevented from entering into potentially beneficial transactions if they conflict with his interests. The interests of Mr. He may differ from the interests of our other shareholders. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws could make it very difficult for you to bring any legal actions against our directors or officers for violations of their fiduciary duties or could require us to pay any amounts incurred by our directors or officers in any such actions. Pursuant to our articles of incorporation, members of our Board of Directors and our officers will have no liability for breaches of their fiduciary duty of care as a director or officer, except in limited circumstances. Accordingly, you may be unable to prevail in a legal action against our directors or officers even if they have breached their fiduciary duty of care. In addition, our bylaws allow us to indemnify our directors and officers from and against any and all costs, charges and expenses resulting from their acting in such capacities with us. This means that if you were able to enforce an action against our directors or officers, in all likelihood we would be required to pay any expenses they incurred in defending the lawsuit and any judgment or settlement they otherwise would be required to pay. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 