Item 1A. Risk Factors The risk factors required pursuant to Regulation S-K, Item 503(c) are not required for smaller reporting companies. Accordingly, the Company has determined to provide particular risk factors at this time .The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Other events that we do not currently anticipate or that we currently deem immaterial also may affect our results of operations and financial condition. If any events described in the risk factors actually occur, our business, operating results, prospects and financial condition could be materially harmed. In connection with the forward looking statements that appear elsewhere in this annual report, you should also carefully review the cautionary statement referred to under “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements.” SHOULD ONE OR MORE OF THE FOREGOING RISKS OR UNCERTAINTIES MATERIALIZE, OR SHOULD THE UNDERLYING ASSUMPTIONS OF OUR BUSINESS PROVE INCORRECT, ACTUAL RESULTS MAY DIFFER SIGNIFICANTLY FROM THOSE ANTICIPATED, BELIEVED, ESTIMATED, EXPECTED, INTENDED OR PLANNED. Risks Related to Our Financial Position and Need for Additional Financing We will need to secure additional financing in 2015 in order to continue to finance our operations. If we are unable to secure additional financing on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be forced to curtail or cease our operations. As of December 31, 2014, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $36,674 and an accumulated capital deficit of approximately $120,434,494. As such, our existing cash resources are insufficient to finance even our immediate operations. Accordingly, we will need to secure additional sources of capital to develop our business and product candidates as planned. We are seeking substantial additional financing through public and/or private financing, which may include equity and/or debt financings, research grants and through other arrangements, 26 including collaborative arrangements. As part of such efforts, we may seek loans from certain of our executive officers, directors and/or current shareholders. We may also seek to satisfy some of our obligations to the guarantors of our loan with Seaside National Bank & Trust, or the Guarantors, through the issuance of various forms of securities or debt on negotiated terms. However, financing and/or alternative arrangements with the Guarantors may not be available when we need it, or may not be available on acceptable terms. If we are unable to secure additional financing in the near term, we may be forced to: ·curtail or abandon our existing business plans; ·reduce our headcount; ·default on our debt obligations; ·file for bankruptcy; ·seek to sell some or all of our assets; and/or ·cease our operations. If we are forced to take any of these steps, any investment in our common stock may be worthless. If we raise additional capital and/or secure alternative arrangements, with the Guarantors or otherwise, by issuing equity, equity-related or convertible securities, the economic, voting and other rights of our existing shareholders may be diluted, and those newly issued securities may be issued at prices that are a significant discount to current and/or then prevailing market prices. In addition, any such newly issued securities may have rights superior to those of our common stock. If we obtain additional capital through collaborative arrangements, we may be required to relinquish greater rights to our technologies or product candidates than we might otherwise have or become subject to restrictive covenants that may affect our business. Our independent registered public accounting firm has expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm issued its report dated March 16th, 2015 in connection with the audit of our financial statements as of December 31, 2014, which included an explanatory paragraph describing the existence of conditions that raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. In addition, our note to our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2014 included an explanatory paragraph describing the existence of conditions that raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. If we are not able to continue as a going concern, it is likely that holders of our common stock will lose all of their investment. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. We are a development stage life sciences company with a limited operating history and a history of net losses and negative cash flows from operations. We may never be profitable, and if we incur operating losses and generate negative cash flows from operations for longer than expected, we may be unable to continue operations. We are a development stage life sciences company and have a limited operating history, limited capital, limited sources of revenue and have incurred losses since inception. Our operations to date have been limited to organizing our company, developing and engaging in clinical trials of our MyoCell product candidate, expanding our pipeline of complementary product candidates through internal development and third party licenses, expanding and strengthening our intellectual property position through internal programs and third party licenses and recruiting management, research and clinical personnel. Consequently, it may be difficult to predict our future success or viability due to our lack of operating history. As of December 31, 2014, we have accumulated a deficit of approximately $120.4 million. Our MyoCell product candidate has not received regulatory approval or generated any material revenues and is not expected to generate any material revenues until commercialization of MyoCell, if ever. Our ability to generate revenues from any of our product candidates will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to successfully complete clinical trials, obtain necessary regulatory approvals and implement 27 our commercialization strategy. In addition, even if we are successful in obtaining necessary regulatory approvals and bringing one or more product candidates to market, we will be subject to the risk that the marketplace will not accept those products. We may, and anticipate that we will need to, transition from a company with a research and development focus to a company capable of supporting commercial activities and we may not succeed in such a transition. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our product development and commercialization efforts, we are unable to predict the extent of our future losses or when or if we will become profitable. Our failure to successfully commercialize our product candidates or to become and remain profitable could impair our ability to raise capital, expand our business, diversify our product offerings and continue our operations. Risks Related to Product Development All of our product candidates are in an early stage of development and we may never succeed in developing and/or commercializing them. We depend heavily on the success of our MyoCell product candidate. If we are unable to commercialize MyoCell or any of our other product candidates or experience significant delays in doing so, our business may fail. ·We have invested a significant portion of our efforts and financial resources in our MyoCell product candidate and depend heavily on its success. MyoCell is currently in the clinical testing stage of development, although we have suspended work under our clinical trials as we seek to raise sufficient funds to complete the trials. ·We need to devote significant additional research and development, financial resources and personnel to develop commercially viable products, obtain regulatory approvals and establish a sales and marketing infrastructure. ·We are likely to encounter hurdles and unexpected issues as we proceed in the development of MyoCell and our other product candidates. There are many reasons that we may not succeed in our efforts to develop our product candidates, including the possibility that: ·our product candidates will be deemed ineffective, unsafe or will not receive regulatory approvals; ·our product candidates will be too expensive to manufacture or market or will not achieve broad market acceptance ·others will hold proprietary rights that will prevent us from marketing our product candidates; or ·our competitors will market products that are perceived as equivalent or superior. Our approach of using cell-based therapy for the treatment of heart damage is risky and unproven and no products using this approach have received regulatory approval in the United States or Europe. No company has yet been successful in its efforts to obtain regulatory approval in the United States or Europe of a cell-based therapy product for the treatment of heart damage. Cell-based therapy products, in general, may be susceptible to various risks, including undesirable and unintended side effects, unintended immune system responses, inadequate therapeutic efficacy or other characteristics that may prevent or limit their approval by regulators or commercial use. Many companies in the industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, despite promising results in earlier trials. One of our competitors exploring the use of skeletal myoblasts ceased enrolling new patients in its European Phase II clinical trial based on the determination of its monitoring committee that there was a low likelihood that the trial would result in the hypothesized improvement in heart function. Although our clinical research to date suggests that MyoCell may improve the contractile function of 28 the heart, we have not yet been able to demonstrate a mechanism of action and additional research is needed to precisely identify such mechanism. If our clinical trials are unsuccessful or significantly delayed, or if we do not complete our clinical trials, we will not receive regulatory approval for or be able to commercialize our product candidates. We cannot market any product candidate until regulatory agencies grant approval or licensure. In order to obtain regulatory approval for the sale of any product candidate, we must, among other requirements, provide the FDA and similar foreign regulatory authorities with preclinical and clinical data that demonstrate to the satisfaction of regulatory authorities that our product candidates are safe and effective for each indication under the applicable standards relating to such product candidate. The preclinical studies and clinical trials of any product candidates must comply with the regulations of the FDA and other governmental authorities in the United States and similar agencies in other countries. Even if we achieve positive interim results in clinical trials, these results do not necessarily predict final results, and positive results in early trials may not be indicative of success in later trials. For example, MyoCell has been studied in a limited number of patients to date. Even though our early data has been promising, we have not yet completed any large-scale pivotal trials to establish the safety and efficacy of MyoCell. A number of participants in our clinical trials have experienced serious adverse events adjudicated or determined by trial investigators to be potentially attributable to MyoCell. There is a risk that safety concerns relating to our product candidates or cell-based therapies in general will result in the suspension or termination of our clinical trials. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, the clinical trial process that could delay or prevent regulatory approval and/or commercialization of our product candidates, including the following: ·the FDA or similar foreign regulatory authorities may find that our product candidates are not sufficiently safe or effective or may find our cell culturing processes or facilities unsatisfactory; ·officials at the FDA or similar foreign regulatory authorities may interpret data from preclinical studies and clinical trials differently than we do; ·our clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results or may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional preclinical studies and/or clinical trials or to abandon one or more of our development programs; ·the FDA or similar foreign regulatory authorities may change their approval policies or adopt new regulations; ·there may be delays or failure in obtaining approval of our clinical trial protocols from the FDA or other regulatory authorities or obtaining institutional review board approvals or government approvals to conduct clinical trials at prospective sites; ·we, or regulators, may suspend or terminate our clinical trials because the participating patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or undesirable side effects; ·we may experience difficulties in managing multiple clinical sites; ·enrollment in our clinical trials for our product candidates may occur more slowly than we anticipate, or we may experience high drop-out rates of subjects in our clinical trials, resulting in significant delays; 29 ·we may be unable to manufacture or obtain from third party manufacturers sufficient quantities of our product candidates for use in clinical trials; and ·our product candidates may be deemed unsafe or ineffective, or may be perceived as being unsafe or ineffective, by healthcare providers for a particular indication. In the SEISMIC Trial, we experienced delays attributable to slower than anticipated enrollment of patients. We may continue to experience difficulties in enrolling patients in our clinical trials, which could increase the costs or affect the timing or outcome of these trials and could prevent us from completing these trials. Failures or perceived failures in our clinical trials would delay and may prevent our product development and regulatory approval process, make it difficult for us to establish collaborations, negatively affect our reputation and competitive position and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend on third parties to assist us in the conduct of our preclinical studies and clinical trials, and any failure of those parties to fulfill their obligations could result in costs and delays and prevent us from obtaining regulatory approval or successfully commercializing our product candidates on a timely basis, if at all. We engage consultants and CROs to help design, and to assist us in conducting, our preclinical studies and clinical trials and to collect and analyze data from those studies and trials. The consultants and contract research organizations we engage interact with clinical investigators to enroll patients in our clinical trials. As a result, we depend on these consultants and CROs to perform the studies and trials in accordance with the investigational plan and protocol for each product candidate and in compliance with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as “good clinical practice”, for conducting, recording and reporting results of clinical trials to assure that the data and results are credible and accurate and the trial participants are adequately protected, as required by the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies. We may face delays in our regulatory approval process if these parties do not perform their obligations in a timely or competent fashion or if we are forced to change service providers. The risk of delays is heightened for our clinical trials conducted outside of the United States, where it may be more difficult for us to ensure that studies are conducted in compliance with foreign regulatory requirements. Any third parties that we hire to conduct clinical trials may also provide services to our competitors, which could compromise the performance of their obligations to us. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their duties or meet expected deadlines, or if the quality, completeness or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to their failure to adhere to our clinical trial protocols or for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated or may otherwise prove to be unsuccessful. If there are delays or failures in clinical trials or regulatory approvals as a result of the failure to perform by third parties, our development costs will increase, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates. In addition, we may not be able to establish or maintain relationships with these third parties on favorable terms, if at all. If we need to enter into replacement arrangements because a third party is not performing in accordance with our expectations, we may not be able to do so without undue delays or considerable expenditures or at all. Our cell-based product candidates are based on novel technologies and the FDA and regulatory agencies in other countries have limited experience reviewing product candidates using these technologies. We are subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of product candidates based on new technologies. The novel nature of our product candidates creates significant challenges in regards to product development and optimization, government regulation, third party reimbursement and market acceptance. These include: ·the scientific basis of our technology could be determined to be less sound than we believe; 30 ·the time and effort required to solve novel technical problems could delay the development of our product candidates; ·the FDA and regulatory agencies in other countries have relatively limited experience with therapies based upon cellular medicine generally and, as a result, the pathway to regulatory approval for our cell-based product candidates may be more complex and lengthy; and ·the healthcare community has relatively little experience with therapies based upon cellular medicine and, accordingly, following regulatory approval, if any, our product candidates may not become widely accepted by physicians, patients, third party payors or the healthcare community. As a result, the development and commercialization pathway for our cell-based therapies may be subject to increased uncertainty, as compared to the pathway for new conventional drugs. There is substantial uncertainty as to the coverage that may be available and the reimbursement rates that may be established for our product candidates. Any failure to obtain third party coverage or an adequate level of reimbursement for our product candidates will likely have a material adverse effect on our business. If we successfully develop, and obtain necessary regulatory approvals for, our product candidates we intend to sell them initially in Europe and the United States. We have not yet submitted any of our product candidates to CMS or any private or governmental third party payor in the United States to determine whether or not our product candidates will be covered under private or public health insurance plans or, if they are covered, what coverage or reimbursement rates may be available. Although we believe hospitals may be entitled to some procedure reimbursement for MyoCell, we cannot assure you that such reimbursement will be adequate or available at all. In Europe, the pricing of prescription pharmaceutical products and services and the level of government reimbursement generally are subject to governmental control. Reimbursement and healthcare payment systems in European markets vary significantly by country, and may include both government-sponsored healthcare and private insurance. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take six to twelve months or longer after the receipt of marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct one or more clinical trials that compare the cost effectiveness of our product candidates to other available therapies. Conducting one or more clinical trials for this purpose would be expensive and result in delays in commercialization of our product candidates. We may not obtain coverage or reimbursement or pricing approvals from countries in Europe in a timely manner, or at all. Any failure to receive coverage or reimbursement or pricing approvals from one or more European countries could effectively prevent us from selling our product candidates in those countries, which could materially adversely affect our business. In the United States, our revenues will depend upon the coverage and reimbursement rates and policies established for our product candidates by third party payors, including governmental authorities, managed-care providers, public health insurers, private health insurers and other organizations. These third party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new healthcare products approved for marketing by the FDA or regulatory agencies in other countries. As a result, significant uncertainty exists as to whether newly approved medical products will be eligible for coverage by third party payors or, if eligible for coverage, what the reimbursement rates will be for those products. Furthermore, cell-based therapies like MyoCell may be more expensive than pharmaceuticals due to, among other things, the higher cost and complexity associated with the research, development and production of these therapies. This, in turn, may make it more difficult for us to obtain adequate reimbursement from third party payors, particularly if we cannot demonstrate a favorable cost-benefit relationship. Third party payors may also deny coverage or offer inadequate levels of reimbursement for our potential products if they determine that the product has not received appropriate clearances from the FDA or other government regulators or is experimental, unnecessary or inappropriate. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that adequate third party coverage or reimbursement will be available for any of our product candidates to allow us to successfully commercialize these product candidates. 31 Coverage and reimbursement rates for our product candidates may be subject to increased restrictions both in the United States and in other countries in the future. Coverage policies and reimbursement rates are subject to change and we cannot guarantee that current coverage policies and reimbursement rates will be applicable to our product candidates in the future. U.S. federal, state and foreign agencies and legislatures from time to time may seek to impose restrictions on coverage, pricing, and reimbursement level of drugs, devices and healthcare services in order to contain healthcare costs. Product liability and other claims against us may reduce demand for our products or result in substantial damages. We anticipate that we will need to obtain and maintain additional or increased insurance coverage, and we may not be able to obtain or maintain such coverage on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. A product liability claim, a clinical trial liability claim or other claim with respect to uninsured liabilities or for amounts in excess of insured liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business exposes us to potential liability risks that may arise from the clinical testing of our product candidates in human clinical trials and the manufacture and sale of any approved products. Any clinical trial liability or product liability claim or series of claims or class actions brought against us, with or without merit, could result in: ·liabilities that substantially exceed our existing clinical trial liability insurance, or any clinical trial liability or product liability insurance that we may obtain in the future, which we would then be required to pay from other sources, if available; ·an increase in the premiums we pay for our clinical trial liability insurance and any clinical trial liability or product liability insurance we may obtain in the future or the inability to renew or obtain clinical trial liability or product liability insurance coverage in the future on acceptable terms, or at all; ·withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers or patients; ·damage to our reputation and the reputation of our products, including loss of market share; ·regulatory investigations that could require costly recalls or product modifications; ·litigation costs; and ·diversion of management’s attention from managing our business. We do not currently have product liability insurance because none of our product candidates has yet been approved for commercialization. While we plan to seek product liability insurance coverage if any of our product candidates are sold commercially, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain product liability insurance on commercially acceptable terms, if at all, or that we will be able to maintain such insurance at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect against potential losses. Claims may be made by consumers, healthcare providers, third party strategic collaborators or others selling our products if one of our products or product candidates causes, or appears to have caused, an injury. We may be subject to claims against us even if an alleged injury is due to the actions of others. For example, we rely on the expertise of physicians, nurses and other associated medical personnel to perform the medical procedures and processes related to our product candidates. If these medical personnel are not properly trained or are negligent in using our product candidates, the therapeutic effect of our product candidates may be diminished or the patient may suffer injury, which may subject us to liability. In addition, an injury resulting from the activities of our suppliers may serve as a basis for a claim against us. 32 We do not intend to promote, or to in any way support or encourage the promotion of, our product candidates for off-label or otherwise unapproved uses. However, if our product candidates are approved by the FDA or similar foreign regulatory authorities, we cannot prevent a physician from using them for any off-label applications. If injury to a patient results from such an inappropriate use, we may become involved in a product liability suit, which will likely be expensive to defend. These liabilities could prevent or interfere with our clinical efforts, product development efforts and any subsequent product commercialization efforts, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property We hold limited patent and other intellectual property rights, and our success will be dependent in large part on safeguarding our existing intellectual property rights and obtaining patent and other proprietary protection for our product candidates. We hold limited patent rights in our product candidates. Our MyoCath product candidate is protected by a patent, expiring in September 2017, in which we have an irrevocable co-exclusive license. Our MyoCell product candidate is no longer protected by patents, which means that competitors will be free to sell products that incorporate the same or similar technologies that are used in MyoCell without infringing our patent rights. As a result, MyoCell, if approved for use, may be vulnerable to competition in the form of products that use the same or similar technologies. We have previously licensed certain patents and patent applications relating to our MyoCell product candidate. These licenses have all lapsed as of the date of this report, although we have had discussions with the relevant licensor regarding a potential reinstatement of our rights in such licenses. Our commercial success will depend to a significant degree on our ability to: ·compel the owners of the patents licensed to us to defend and enforce such patents, to the extent such patents may be applicable to our products and material to their commercialization; ·obtain new patent and other proprietary protection for MyoCell and our other product candidates; ·obtain and/or maintain appropriate licenses to patents, patent applications or other proprietary rights held by others with respect to our technology, both in the United States and other countries; ·preserve intellectual property rights relating to our product candidates; and ·operate without infringing the patents and proprietary rights of third parties. Failure to obtain adequate patent protection for our product candidates, or the failure to protect our existing patent rights, may impair our ability to be competitive. The availability of infringing products in markets where we have patent protection, or the availability of competing products in markets where we do not have adequate patent protection, could erode the market for our product candidates, negatively impact the prices we can charge for our product candidates, and harm our reputation if infringing or competing products are manufactured to inferior standards. Our most important license agreement with respect to MyoCath is co-exclusive and the co-licensor of the intellectual property, a division of Abbott Laboratories, may also seek to commercialize MyoCath. In June 2003, we assigned our exclusive license to the primary patent protecting MyoCath to ACS, originally a subsidiary of Guidant Corporation and now d/b/a Abbott Vascular, a division of Abbott Laboratories. In connection with this agreement, ACS granted to us a co-exclusive, irrevocable, fully paid-up license to this patent 33 for the life of the patent. Because our license is co-exclusive with ACS, ACS may, parallel to our efforts, seek to commercialize MyoCath if MyoCath secures regulatory approval. Accordingly, even if ACS does nothing to assist us to secure regulatory approval of MyoCath, ACS may become a direct competitor in the MyoCath manufacturing and supply business. In addition, pursuant to our agreement with ACS, we are prohibited from contracting with third parties for the distribution of MyoCath. Our patents may not be valid or enforceable, and may be challenged by third parties. We cannot assure you that any patents issued or licensed to us would be held valid by a court or administrative body or that we would be able to successfully enforce our patents against infringers, including our competitors. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability, and the validity and enforceability of a patent is susceptible to challenge on numerous legal grounds. Challenges raised in patent infringement litigation brought by or against us may result in determinations that patents that have been issued or licensed to us or any patents that may be issued to us or our licensors in the future are invalid, unenforceable or otherwise subject to limitations. In the event of any such determinations, third parties may be able to use the discoveries or technologies claimed in these patents without paying licensing fees or royalties to us, which could significantly diminish the value of our intellectual property and our competitive advantage. Even if our patents are held to be enforceable, others may be able to design around our patents or develop products similar to our products that are not within the scope of any of our patents. In addition, enforcing the patents that have been licensed to us and any patents that may be issued to us in the future against third parties may require significant expenditures regardless of the outcome of such efforts. Our inability to enforce our patents against infringers and competitors may impair our ability to be competitive and could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we are not able to protect and control unpatented trade secrets, know-how and other technological innovation, we may suffer competitive harm. We rely to a large extent on unpatented technology, trade secrets, confidential information and proprietary know-how to protect our technology and maintain our competitive position, especially when we do not believe that patent protection is appropriate or can be obtained. Trade secrets are difficult to protect. In order to protect proprietary technology and processes, we rely in part on confidentiality and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, consultants and others. These agreements generally provide that the individual must keep confidential and not disclose to other parties any confidential information developed or learned by the individual during the course of the individual’s relationship with us except in limited circumstances. These agreements generally also provide that we shall own all inventions conceived by the individual in the course of rendering services to us. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information or result in the effective assignment to us of intellectual property, and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information or other breaches of the agreements. In addition, others may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information that have been licensed to us or that we own, and in such case we could not assert any trade secret rights against such party. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using trade secrets that have been licensed to us or that we own is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States may be less willing to protect trade secrets. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to seek to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could have a material adverse effect on our business. Moreover, some of our academic institution licensors, collaborators and scientific advisors have rights to publish data and information to which we have rights. If we cannot maintain the confidentiality of our technologies and other confidential information in connection with our collaborations, our ability to protect our proprietary information or obtain patent protection in the future may be impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 34 Risks Related to the Transactions with Magna Equities II, LLC Funding from our Purchase Agreement with Magna Equities II, LLC may be limited or insufficient to fund our operations or to implement our strategy. Under our Purchase Agreement with Magna Equities II, LLC, and following December 22, 2014, the date of effectiveness of the registration statement of the shares underlying the Purchase Agreement , and subject to other conditions, we may direct Magna Equities II, LLC to purchase up to $3,000,000 of our shares of common stock over a 24-month period. Although the Purchase Agreement provides that we may sell up to $3,000,000 of our common stock to Magna Equities II, LLC, only 143,812,591 shares of our common stock were offered under the prospectus of the Registration Statement and disclosed in the Purchase Agreement, which represents (i) 31,000,000 shares of common stock that may be issued to Magna Equities II, LLC upon conversion of the Convertible Note, (ii) 12,000,000 shares of common stock that we issued to Magna Equities II, LLC as Initial Commitment Shares on October 27, 2014, (iii) a maximum of 15,890,872 shares of common stock that we may be required to issue to Magna Equities II, LLC as Additional Commitment Shares and (iv) 87,812,591 shares of common stock that we may issue to Magna Equities II, LLC as Shares pursuant to draw downs under the Purchase Agreement. At an assumed purchase price of $0.01460 (equal to 93% of the closing price of our common stock of $0.01570 on November 10, 2014), and assuming the sale by us to Magna Equities II, LLC of all of the 87,812,591 Shares, or approximately 15.7% of our issued and outstanding common stock, including the issuance of such shares, being registered hereunder pursuant to draw downs under the Purchase Agreement, we would receive only approximately $1,282,064 in gross proceeds. Furthermore, we may receive substantially less than $1,282,064 in gross proceeds from the financing due to our share price, discount to market and other factors relating to our common stock. If we elect to issue and sell more than the 87,812,591 Shares offered to Magna Equities II, LLC, which we have the right, but not the obligation, to do, we must first register for resale under the Securities Act any such additional Shares, which could cause additional substantial dilution to our stockholders. Based on the above assumptions, we would be required to register an additional approximately 117,666,849 shares of our common stock to obtain the balance of $1,717,936 of the Total Commitment that would be available to us under the Purchase Agreement. We currently have authorized and available for issuance 2,000,000,000 shares of our common stock pursuant to our charter. Depending on the price at which Shares are ultimately sold, we may have to increase the number of our authorized shares in order to issue Shares to Magna Equities II, LLC. There can be no assurance that we will be able to receive all or any of the Total Commitment from Magna Equities II, LLC because the Purchase Agreement contains certain limitations, restrictions, requirements, conditions and other provisions that could limit our ability to cause Magna Equities II, LLC to buy common stock from us. For instance, we are prohibited from issuing a Draw Down Notice if the amount requested in such Draw Down Notice exceeds the Maximum Draw Down Amount, or the sale of Shares pursuant to the Draw Down Notice would cause us to sell or Magna Equities II, LLC to purchase an aggregate number of shares of the Company’s common stock which would result in beneficial ownership by Magna Equities II, LLC of more than 9.99% of our common stock (as calculated pursuant to Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder). Moreover, there are limitations with respect to the frequency with which we may provide Draw Down Notices to Magna Equities II, LLC under the Purchase Agreement. Also, as discussed above, there must be an effective registration statement covering the resale of any Shares to be issued pursuant to any draw down under the Purchase Agreement,. These registration statements may be subject to review and comment by the staff of the Commission, and will require the consent of our independent registered public accounting firm. Therefore, the timing of effectiveness of these registration statements cannot be assured. The extent to which we rely on Magna Equities II, LLC as a source of funding will depend on a number of factors, including the amount of working capital needed, the prevailing market price of our common stock and the extent to which we are able to secure working capital from other sources. If obtaining sufficient funding from Magna Equities II, LLC were to prove unavailable or prohibitively dilutive, we would need to secure another source of funding. Even if we sell all $3,000,000 of common stock under the Purchase Agreement with Magna Equities II, 35 LLC, we will still need additional capital to fully implement our current business, operating plans and development plans. The sale or issuance of our common stock to Magna Equities II, LLC at a discount may cause substantial dilution and the resale of the shares of common stock by Magna Equities II, LLC into the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could cause the price of our common stock to fall. Under the Purchase Agreement with Magna Equities II, LLC, and following December 22, 2014, the date of effectiveness of the registration statement of the shares underlying the Purchase Agreement, and subject to other conditions, we may direct Magna Equities II, LLC to purchase up to $3,000,000 of our shares of common stock over a 24-month period. We are registering an aggregate of 143,812,591 (including 12,000,000 shares already issued) shares of common stock in the registration statement of which this prospectus is a part pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, representing shares which have been and may be issuable to Magna Equities II, LLC under the Purchase Agreement and shares underlying the Convertible Note we issued to Magna Equities II, LLC. Notwithstanding Magna Equities II, LLC’s beneficial ownership limitation set forth in the Purchase Agreement and the Convertible Note, if all of the 143,812,591 shares offered under that prospectus were issued and outstanding as of the effective date of the registration statement, such shares would represent approximately 20.7% of the total number of shares of our common stock outstanding and 20.9% of the total number of outstanding shares of our common stock held by non-affiliates, in each case as of November 20, 2014. The number of shares ultimately offered for sale by Magna Equities II, LLC under that prospectus is dependent upon a number of factors, including the extent to which Magna Equities II, LLC converts the Convertible Note into shares of our common stock and the number of Shares we ultimately issue and sell to Magna Equities II, LLC under the Purchase Agreement. Because the actual purchase price for the Shares that we may sell to Magna Equities II, LLC will fluctuate based on the market price of our common stock during the term of the Purchase Agreement, we are not able to determine at this time the exact number of shares of our common stock that we will issue under the Purchase Agreement and, therefore, the exact number of shares we will ultimately register for resale under the Securities Act. Specifically, because the per share purchase price for the Shares subject to a Draw Down Notice will be equal to a 7% discount to certain trading prices of our common stock as set forth in the Purchase Agreement, Magna Equities II, LLC will pay less than the then-prevailing market price for our common stock, and the actual purchase price for the Shares that we may sell to Magna Equities II, LLC will fluctuate based on the VWAPs and closing prices of our common stock during the term of the Purchase Agreement. As a result of this discount, Magna Equities II, LLC may have a financial incentive to sell our common stock immediately to realize the profit equal to the difference between the purchase price and the market price. If Magna Equities II, LLC sells the common stock, the market price of our common stock could decrease. If the market price of our common stock decreases, Magna Equities II, LLC may have a further incentive to sell the common stock that it holds. These sales may have a further impact on the market price of our common stock. Moreover, there is an inverse relationship between the market price of our common stock and the number of shares of our common stock that may be sold pursuant to the Purchase Agreement. That is, the lower the market price, the more shares of our common stock that may be sold under the Purchase Agreement. Accordingly, if the market price of our common stock decreases (whether such decrease is due to sales by Magna Equities II, LLC in the market or otherwise) and, in turn, the purchase price of our common stock sold to Magna Equities II, LLC under the Purchase Agreement decreases, this could allow Magna Equities II, LLC to receive greater numbers of shares of our common stock pursuant to draw downs under the Purchase Agreement. Although the number of shares of our common stock that our existing stockholders own will not decrease, the common stock owned by our existing stockholders will represent a smaller percentage of our total outstanding shares after any such sales to Magna Equities II, LLC. Depending on market liquidity at the time, the sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock to Magna Equities II, LLC at a discount to the then-prevailing market price for our common stock under the Purchase Agreement, and the resale of such shares by Magna Equities II, LLC into the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, result in substantial dilution to existing stockholders and make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and at a price that we might otherwise wish to effect sales. 36 You may experience immediate and substantial dilution in the net tangible book value per share of the common stock you purchase. The price per share of our common stock being offered pursuant to the Purchase Agreement may be substantially higher than the net tangible book value per share of our common stock. Therefore, if you purchase shares of common stock at the current market value, you may suffer immediate and substantial dilution in the pro forma net tangible book value per share of common stock.. We may use the net proceeds from sales of our common stock to Magna Equities II, LLC pursuant to the Purchase Agreement in ways with which you may disagree. We intend to use the net proceeds from sales of our common stock to Magna Equities II, LLC pursuant to the Purchase Agreement for working capital and general corporate purposes. As of the date of this report , we cannot specify with certainty all of the particular uses of the proceeds from sales of common stock to Magna Equities II, LLC pursuant to the Purchase Agreement. Accordingly, we will have significant discretion in the use of the net proceeds of sales of common stock to Magna Equities II, LLC pursuant to the Purchase Agreement. It is possible that we may allocate the proceeds differently than investors in this offering desire or that we will fail to maximize our return on these proceeds. We may, subsequent to this offering, modify our intended use of the proceeds from sales of common stock to Magna Equities II, LLC pursuant to the Purchase Agreement to pursue strategic opportunities that may arise, such as potential acquisition opportunities. You will be relying on the judgment of our management with regard to the use of the net proceeds from the sales of common stock to Magna Equities II, LLC pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, and you will not have the opportunity, as part of your investment decision, to assess whether the proceeds are being used appropriately. Any failure to apply the proceeds from sales of common stock to Magna Equities II, LLC pursuant to the Purchase Agreement effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business and cause a decline in the market price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock may be considered a “penny stock,” and thereby be subject to additional sale and trading regulations that may make it more difficult to sell. Our common stock is considered to be a “penny stock.” It does not qualify for one of the exemptions from the definition of “penny stock” under Section 3a51-1 of the Exchange Act. Our common stock is a “penny stock” because it meets one or more of the following conditions (i) the stock trades at a price less than $5.00 per share; (ii) it is not traded on a “recognized” national exchange or (iii) it is not quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market, or has a price less than $5.00 per share. The principal result or effect of being designated a “penny stock” is that securities broker-dealers participating in sales of our common stock are subject to the “penny stock” regulations set forth in Rules 15-2 through 15g-9 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act. For example, Rule 15g-2 requires broker-dealers dealing in penny stocks to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks and to obtain a manually signed and dated written receipt of the document at least two business days before effecting any transaction in a penny stock for the investor’s account. Moreover, Rule 15g-9 requires broker-dealers in penny stocks to approve the account of any investor for transactions in such stocks before selling any penny stock to that investor. This procedure requires the broker-dealer to (i) obtain from the investor information concerning his or her financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives; (ii) reasonably determine, based on that information, that transactions in penny stocks are suitable for the investor and that the investor has sufficient knowledge and experience as to be reasonably capable of evaluating the risks of penny stock transactions; (iii) provide the investor with a written statement setting forth the basis on which the broker-dealer made the determination in (ii) above; and (iv) receive a signed and dated copy of such statement from the investor, confirming that it accurately reflects the investor’s financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives. Compliance with these requirements may make it more difficult and time consuming for holders of our common stock to resell their shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them in the market or otherwise. 37 FINRA sales practice requirements may limit a shareholder’s ability to buy and sell our common shares. In addition to the “penny stock” rules described above, FINRA has adopted rules that require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative low priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer’s financial status, tax status, investment objectives and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, FINRA believes that there is a high probability that speculative low priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. FINRA requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our common shares, which may limit your ability to buy and sell our stock and have an adverse effect on the market for our shares. Rule 144 sales in the future may have a depressive effect on the company’s stock price as an increase in supply of shares for sale, with no corresponding increase in demand will cause prices to fall. All of the outstanding shares of common stock held by the present officers, directors, and affiliate stockholders are “restricted securities” within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. As restricted shares, these shares may be resold only pursuant to an effective registration statement or under the requirements of Rule 144 or other applicable exemptions from registration under the Securities Act of 1933 and as required under applicable state securities laws. Rule 144 provides in essence that a person who is an affiliate or officer or director who has held restricted securities for six months may, under certain conditions, sell every three months, in brokerage transactions, a number of shares that does not exceed the greater of 1.0% of a Company’s issued and outstanding common stock. There is no limit on the amount of restricted securities that may be sold by a non-affiliate after the owner has held the restricted securities for a period of six months if the Company is a current reporting company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. A sale under Rule 144 or under any other exemption from the Securities Act of 1933, if available, or pursuant to subsequent registration of shares of common stock of present stockholders, may have a depressive effect upon the price of the common stock in any market that may develop. In addition, if we are deemed a shell company pursuant to Section 12(b)-2 of the Act, our “restricted securities”, whether held by affiliates or non-affiliates, may not be re-sold for a period of 12 months following the filing of a Form 10 level disclosure or registration pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. It is time consuming, difficult and costly for us to develop and maintain the internal controls, processes and reporting procedures required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and as our business develops, we may need to hire additional financial reporting, internal auditing and other finance staff in order to remain compliant. The cost of compliance will adversely affect our financial results, while, if we are unable to comply, we may not be able to obtain the independent accountant certifications that the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires of publicly traded companies. If we fail to comply in a timely manner with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act regarding internal control over financial reporting or to remedy any material weaknesses in our internal controls that we may identify, such failure could result in material misstatements in our financial statements, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and current SEC regulations, we are required to prepare assessments regarding internal controls over financial reporting and furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment or complete our Section 404 certifications could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. In addition, in connection with our on-going assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, we may discover “material weaknesses” in our internal controls as defined in standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or the PCAOB. A material weakness is a 38 significant deficiency, or combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. The PCAOB defines “significant deficiency” as a deficiency that results in more than a remote likelihood that a misstatement of the financial statements that is more than inconsequential will not be prevented or detected. In the event that a material weakness is identified, upon receiving sufficient financing or generating sufficient revenues, we will employ qualified personnel and adopt and implement policies and procedures to address any such material weaknesses. However, the process of designing and implementing effective internal controls is a continuous effort that requires us to anticipate and react to changes in our business and the economic and regulatory environments and to expend significant resources to maintain a system of internal controls that is adequate to satisfy our reporting obligations as a public company. We cannot assure you that the measures we will take will remediate any material weaknesses that we may identify or that we will implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial process and reporting in the future. Any failure to complete our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, to remediate any material weaknesses that we may identify or to implement new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of the periodic management evaluations of our internal controls and, in the case of a failure to remediate any material weaknesses that we may identify, would adversely affect the annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting that are required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Inadequate internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. The systems of internal controls and procedures that we have developed and implemented to date are adequate in a business that has no revenue, few purchase and expense transactions, and little in the way of tangible assets and working capital. However, the reliance on third party sub-contractors and lack of employees makes it difficult to ensure segregation of key duties, provide multiple levels of review, and ensure that specified checks and balances exist and are enforced and acted upon where necessary. The current transaction volume and limited transaction channels mean that operating management, financial management, board members and auditor can, and do, efficiently perform a very extensive and detailed transaction review to ensure compliance with the Company’s established procedures and controls. When we secure purchase orders and start purchasing product from our sub-contract manufacturers, shipping product to our customers, collecting receivables, and paying our vendors we will need to apply significantly more resources to the management of our controls and procedures and to ensure and continue effective compliance. If our business grows rapidly, we may not be able to keep up with recruiting and training personnel, and enhancing our systems of internal control in line with the growth in transaction volumes and compliance risks which could result in loss of assets, profit, and ability to manage the daily operations of our Company. Public disclosure requirements and compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance pose challenges for our management team and result in additional expenses and costs which may reduce the focus of management and the profitability of our company. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and SEC regulations, have created uncertainty for public companies and significantly increased the costs and risks associated with accessing the U.S. public markets. Our management team will need to devote significant time and financial resources to comply with both existing and evolving standards for public companies, which will lead to increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. SHOULD ONE OR MORE OF THE FOREGOING RISKS OR UNCERTAINTIES MATERIALIZE, OR SHOULD THE UNDERLYING ASSUMPTIONS PROVE INCORRECT, ACTUAL RESULTS MAY DIFFER 39 SIGNIFICANTLY FROM THOSE ANTICIPATED, BELIEVED, ESTIMATED, EXPECTED, INTENDED OR PLANNED Item B. Unresolved Staff Comments This Item is not applicable to us as we are not an accelerated filer, a large accelerated filer, or a well-seasoned issuer. 