RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information in this annual report before investing in our common stock. If any of the following risks occur, our business, operating results and financial condition could be seriously harmed. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. IF WE DO NOT OBTAIN ADDITIONAL FINANCING, OUR BUSINESS MAY FAIL. Our business plan calls for ongoing expenses in connection with advertising and organizing our events. We have generated minimal revenue from operations to date. At September 30, 2007, we had cash on hand of $11,308 and we have accumulated a deficit of $44,198 in business development and administrative expenses during the most recent fiscal year. In order to expand our business operations, we anticipate that we will have to raise additional funding. If we are not able to raise the capital necessary to fund our business expansion objectives, we may have to delay the implementation of our business plan. We do not currently have any arrangements for financing. Obtaining additional funding will be subject to a number of factors, including general market conditions, investor acceptance of our business plan and initial results from our business operations. These factors may impact the timing, amount, terms or conditions of additional financing available to us. The most likely source of future funds recently available to us is through the sale of additional shares of common stock. BECAUSE WE HAVE ONLY CONDUCTED EVENTS OF LIMITED CAPACITY, WE FACE A HIGH RISK OF BUSINESS FAILURE. We were incorporated on July 18, 2006 and to date have been involved in organizing smaller events of limited capacity. We have earned little revenues as of the date of this annual report and have incurred total losses of $44,198 from our incorporation to September 30, 2007. Accordingly, you cannot evaluate our business, and therefore our future prospects, due to a minimal of operating history. To date, our business development activities have consisted solely of organizing two events and negotiating verbal agreements with one DJ, and two venues. Potential investors should be aware of the difficulties normally encountered by development stage companies and the high rate of failure of such enterprises. In addition, there is no guarantee that we will be able to expand our business operations. Even if we expand our operations, at present, we do not know precisely when this will occur. WE NEED TO CONTINUE AS A GOING CONCERN IF OUR BUSINESS IS TO SUCCEED. Our business condition, as indicated in our independent accountant's audit report, raises substantial doubt as to our continuance as a going concern. To date, we have completed only part of our business plan and we can provide no assurance that we will be able to generate enough revenue from our events in order to achieve profitability. It is not possible at this time for us to predict with assurance the potential success of our business. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO SIGN CONTRACTS WITH A SIGNIFICANT NUMBER OF VENUES FOR THE USE OF THEIR FACILITIES, OUR BUSINESS WILL FAIL. The success of our business requires that we enter into contracts with various venues respecting the use of their facilities for our events. If we are unable to conclude agreements with such venues, or if any agreements we reach with them are not on favorable terms that allow us to generate profit, our business will fail. To date, we have no written contracts with any venues. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO FIND POPULAR DJ'S AND LIVE BANDS TO PERFORM AT OUR EVENTS, OUR BUSINESS MAY FAIL We will have to constantly deliver new and exiting entertainment to our clientele. If we are unable to find popular performers or to reach agreements with them on favorable terms that allow us to generate profit, our business will fail. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO ATTRACT ENOUGH PEOPLE TO OUR EVENTS, OUR BUSINESS WILL FAIL. Since our revenue comes almost exclusively from admission fees that our people pay when they attend our events, we need to attract enough people to our events in order to cover our costs. If we are unable to attract enough people to our events, we will generate losses and our business to fail. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO RETAIN KEY PERSONNEL, THEN WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO IMPLEMENT OUR BUSINESS PLAN We depend on the services of our sole director, Artiom Balykin, for the future success of our business. The loss of the services of Mr. Balykin could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not carry any key personnel life insurance policies on Mr. Balykin and we do not have a contract for his services. IF WE ARE NOT ABLE TO EFFECTIVELY RESPOND TO COMPETITION, OUR BUSINESS MAY FAIL There are thousands of event promoters of various sizes that compete directly with us. Some of these competitors have established businesses with substantial following and valuable contacts. We will attempt to compete against these groups by establishing networks of promoters who will keep in regular personal contact with our clientele. We cannot assure you that such a marketing plan will be successful or that competitors will not copy our business strategy. Our inability to achieve profit and revenue due to competition will have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. BECAUSE OUR DIRECTOR AND OFFICER OWNS 57.14% OF OUR OUTSTANDING COMMON STOCK, HE WILL MAKE AND CONTROL CORPORATE DECISIONS THAT MAY BE DISADVANTAGEOUS TO MINORITY SHAREHOLDERS. Mr. Balykin, our director and officer, owns approximately 57.14% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Accordingly, he will have significant influence in determining the outcome of all corporate transactions or other matters, including the election of directors, mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, and also the power to prevent or cause a change in control. The interests of Mr. Balykin may differ from the interests of the other stockholders and may result in corporate decisions that are disadvantageous to other shareholders. A PURCHASER IS PURCHASING PENNY STOCK WHICH LIMITS THE ABILITY TO SELL THE STOCK. Our shares constitute penny stock under the Exchange Act. The shares will remain penny stock for the foreseeable future. "Penny stock" rules impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell such securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors, that is, generally those with assets in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 together with a spouse. For transactions covered by these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchase of such securities and have received the purchaser's written consent to the transaction prior to the purchase. Additionally, for any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require the delivery, prior to the transaction, of a disclosure schedule prescribed by the Commission relating to the penny stock market. The broker- dealer also must disclose the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. Finally, monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information on the limited market in penny stocks. Consequently, the "penny stock" rules may restrict the ability of broker-dealers to sell our shares of common stock. The market price of our shares would likely suffer as a result. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This annual report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. We use words such as anticipate, believe, plan, expect, future, intend and similar expressions to identify such forward-looking statements. You should not place too much reliance on these forward-looking statements. Our actual results are most likely to differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements for many reasons, including the risks faced by us described in the "Risk Factors" section and elsewhere in this annual report. 