Risk Factors — Risks Related To Our Business — The market in which we operate is intensely competitive, and many of our competitors are larger, more established and better capitalized than we are” and “— As voice and data networks converge, we are likely to face increased competition from companies in the information technology, personal and business applications and software industries.” Intellectual Property Our success as a company depends upon our ability to protect our core technology and intellectual property. To accomplish this, we rely on a combination of intellectual property rights, including patents, trade secrets, copyrights and trademarks, as well as customary contractual protections. We have three patents issued in the United States, which expire in 2019, 2023 and 2023, and have twelve patent applications in the United States. We also have one foreign patent application relating to one of our U.S. patents. We intend to file other counterparts for these patents and patent applications in foreign jurisdictions around the world. ShoreTel, our logo, ShorePhone, ShoreGear and ShoreWare are registered trademarks of ShoreTel. The steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property rights and may challenge our issued patents. In addition, other parties may independently develop similar or competing technologies designed around any patents that are or may be issued to us. We intend to enforce our intellectual property rights vigorously, and from time to time, we may initiate claims against third parties that we believe are infringing on our intellectual property rights if we are unable to resolve matters satisfactorily through negotiation. If we fail to protect our proprietary rights adequately, our competitors could offer similar products, potentially significantly harming our competitive position and decreasing our revenue. Employees As of June 30, 2007, we had 285 employees in North America, Europe and Australia, of which 94 were in sales and marketing, 102 were in engineering, 42 were in global support services, 33 were in general and administrative 8 Table of Contents functions and 14 were in operations. None of our employees are represented by labor unions, and we consider current employee relations to be good. Executive Officers The following table sets forth information about our executive officers as of September 15, 2007: Name Age Position John W. Combs 60 Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Edwin J. Basart 58 Founder, Chief Technology Officer and Director Michael E. Healy 46 Chief Financial Officer John Finegan 58 Vice President, Finance Pedro E. Rump 51 Vice President, Engineering and Operations Stephen G. Timmerman 48 Vice President, Marketing Joseph A. Vitalone 45 Vice President, Sales Walter Weisner 51 Vice President, Global Services Ava M. Hahn 34 General Counsel and Secretary John W. Combs has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer and as a director since July 2004 and as our Chairman since February 2007. From July 2002 to May 2004, Mr. Combs served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Littlefeet Inc., a wireless infrastructure supplier. From September 1999 to July 2002, Mr. Combs served as Chief Executive Officer of InternetConnect Inc., a broadband networking solutions provider. Mr. Combs has also held senior management positions at Nextel Communications, Inc., a wireless digital communications system provider, L.A. Cellular, a wireless network operator, Mitel Inc., a manufacturer of private branch exchanges and Fujitsu Business Communication Systems, Inc., a provider of telecommunications products. Mr. Combs holds a B.S. in engineering from California Polytechnic State University, San Luis Obispo. Edwin J. Basart co-founded ShoreTel in 1996 and has served as our Chief Technology Officer and as a director since inception. Prior to co-founding ShoreTel, Mr. Basart co-founded Network Computing Devices, Inc., a provider of thin client computing hardware and software, where he served as Vice President of Engineering, and Ridge Computers, Inc. where he served as Vice President of Software. Mr. Basart began his career as a software engineer at Hewlett Packard. Mr. Basart holds a B.S. in English from Iowa State University and an M.S. in electrical engineering from Stanford University. Michael E. Healy has served as our Chief Financial Officer since May 2007. From February 2004 to May 2007, he served as Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President of Finance of Genesis Microchip Inc., a supplier of display image processors. From November 2002 to February 2004, Mr. Healy served as Chief Financial Officer of Jamcracker, Inc., a software and application service provider. From September 1997 to June 2002, Mr. Healy held senior level finance positions at Exodus Communications, Inc., an Internet infrastructure outsourcing services provider (Exodus Communications sold substantially all of its assets in January 2002 and changed its name to EXDS, Inc. in February 2002), including as Senior Vice President of Finance prior to February 2002, and as its Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Treasurer from February 2002 to June 2002. From 1987 to 1997, Mr. Healy held various financial management positions at Apple Computer, Inc., and was an auditor at Deloitte & Touche LLP from 1983 to 1987. Mr. Healy holds a B.S. in accounting from Santa Clara University and is a Certified Public Accountant. Mr. Healy is a member of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and the California Society of Certified Public Accountants. John Finegan has served as our Vice President of Finance since May 2007. From April 2003 to May 2007, Mr. Finegan served as our Chief Financial Officer. From July 1989 to March 2003, Mr. Finegan served as Chief Financial Officer of ActionPoint, Inc. (previously named Cornerstone Imaging, Inc.), an enterprise software company that later merged with Captiva Software Corporation. Prior to joining Cornerstone Imaging, Mr. Finegan served as Vice President of Finance and Administration of Faraday Electronics Inc., a fabless semiconductor company, and held senior management positions at ECS Microsystems Inc., a computer terminal company and Beckman Instruments Inc., a scientific instruments company. Mr. Finegan holds a B.S. in engineering from Tufts University and an M.B.A. from the University of Massachusetts. 9 Table of Contents Pedro E. Rump has served as our Vice President of Engineering and Operations since January 2006. From July 2004 to January 2006, Mr. Rump served as Vice President of Engineering and Operations at Dust Networks, Inc., a developer of embedded wireless sensor networking products. From January 2004 to July 2004, Mr. Rump served as Vice President of Engineering at Sonim Technologies, Inc., a provider of voice over IP applications. From January 2003 to January 2004, Mr. Rump served as Vice President of Engineering at Littlefeet Inc. From January 2002 to October 2002, Mr. Rump served as Vice President of Inviso, a developer of signal transport and display solutions for television and telecommunications. Mr. Rump holds a B.S. and M.S. in electrical engineering from the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology. Stephen G. Timmerman has served as our Vice President of Marketing since January 2005. From February 2004 to December 2004, Mr. Timmerman was an independent marketing and business consultant. From February 2003 to January 2004, he served as Vice President for Bermai, Inc., a provider of chipsets for wireless applications. From February 2002 to November 2002, Mr. Timmerman served as Vice President of Marketing for Proxim Wireless Corporation, a developer of broadband wireless networking systems. Prior to joining Proxim, Mr. Timmerman held management positions at Octel Communications Corporation, a supplier of voicemail systems, and at McKinsey & Company, a consulting firm. Mr. Timmerman holds a B.S. in mechanical and aerospace engineering from Princeton University and an M.B.A. from Harvard University. Joseph A. Vitalone has served as our Vice President of Sales since October 2005. From February 2003 to October 2005, Mr. Vitalone served as Vice President of Worldwide Sales for CoVI Technologies, Inc., a provider of digital surveillance solutions. From June 2001 to July 2003, Mr. Vitalone served as Senior Vice President of Sales for Wire One Communications, Inc., a video conferencing solutions provider. Prior to joining Wire One Communications, Mr. Vitalone served as Vice President of Sales for Polycom, Inc., a provider of broadband communications solutions, and held sales positions at ViaVideo Communications, Inc., a developer of group video communications systems, Mitel, PictureTel Corporation, a video conferencing solutions provider, Siemens A.G., and AT&T Wireless Services, Inc. Mr. Vitalone holds a B.A. in business and public relations from Western Kentucky University. Walter Weisner has served as our Vice President of Global Services since July 2005. From April 2002 to June 2005, Mr. Weisner served as Vice President, Global Support Services for Webex Communications, Inc., a web communications services provider. From October 1999 to March 2002, Mr. Weisner served as Executive Vice President of Operations and Support for InternetConnect. Prior to joining InternetConnect, Mr. Weisner served as Senior Director of Customer Operations and Support for Nextel Communications, Southwest region, and also held positions in product management and product development with Nextel. Mr. Weisner holds a B.A. in business administration from Cleveland State University. Ava M. Hahn has served as our General Counsel and Secretary since June 2007. From August 2002 to June 2007, Ms. Hahn served in various capacities at Genesis Microchip, Inc., a supplier of display image processors, including General Counsel, Secretary, Corporate Counsel and Associate General Counsel. From August 2000 to August 2002, Ms. Hahn was Director, Legal Affairs at LuxN, Inc., an optical networking company. From August 1997 to August 2000, Ms. Hahn was an associate attorney with Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati, P.C. Ms. Hahn holds a B.A. in history from the University of California, Berkeley and a J.D. from Columbia Law School. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Our recent profitability and growth rates may not be indicative of our future profitability or growth, and we may not be able to continue to maintain or increase our profitability or growth. While we have been profitable in recent periods, we had an accumulated deficit of $84.8 million as of June 30, 2007. This accumulated deficit is attributable to net losses incurred from our inception in September 1996 through the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2005. We may not succeed in maintaining or increasing our profitability and could incur losses in future periods. We expect to incur significant additional operating expenses associated with being a public company. We also expect that our operating expenses, including recognition of stock-based compensation, will continue to increase in all areas as we seek to grow our business. If our gross profit does 10 Table of Contents not increase to offset these expected increases in operating expenses, our operating results will be negatively affected. You should not consider our recent growth rates in terms of revenue and net income as indicative of our future growth. Accordingly we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or increase our profitability in the future. The market in which we operate is intensely competitive, and many of our competitors are larger, more established and better capitalized than we are. The market for IP telecommunications and other telecommunications systems is extremely competitive. Our competitors include companies that offer IP systems, such as Cisco Systems, Inc. and 3Com Corporation, and that offer hybrid systems, such as Alcatel-Lucent, Avaya, Inc., Inter-Tel Incorporated, Mitel Networks Corporation (which recently acquired Inter-Tel Incorporated) and Nortel Networks Corporation. Several of the companies that offer hybrid systems are beginning to also offer IP telecommunications systems. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have greater financial, technical, research and development, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution and other resources. We could also face competition from new market entrants, whether from new ventures or from established companies moving in to the market. These competitors have various other advantages over us, including: • greater market presence, name recognition and brand reputation; • a larger installed base of telecommunications and networking systems with enterprise customers; • larger and more geographically distributed services and support organizations and capabilities; • a broader offering of telecommunications and networking products, applications and services; • a more established international presence to address the needs of global enterprises; • substantially larger patent and intellectual property portfolios; • longer operating histories; • a longer history of implementing large-scale telecommunications or networking systems; • more established relationships with industry participants, customers, suppliers, distributors and other technology companies; and • the ability to acquire technologies or consolidate with other companies in the industry to compete more effectively. Given their capital resources, many of these competitors are in a better position to withstand any significant reduction in capital spending by enterprise customers on telecommunications equipment and are not as susceptible to downturns in a particular market. This risk is enhanced because we focus our business solely on the enterprise IP telecommunications market and do not have a diversified portfolio of products that are applicable to other market segments. We compete primarily on the basis of price, feature set, reliability, scalability, usability, total cost of ownership and service. Because our competitors have greater financial strength than we do and are able to offer a more diversified bundle of products and services, they have offered and in the future may offer telecommunications products at lower prices than we do. These larger competitors can also bundle products with other services, such as hosted or managed services, effectively reducing the price of their products. In order to remain competitive from a cost perspective, we have in the past reduced the prices of our products, and we may be required to do so in the future, in order to gain enterprise customers. Price reductions could have a negative effect on our gross margins. Our competitors may also be able to devote more resources to developing new or enhanced products, including products that may be based on new technologies or standards. If our competitors’ products become more accepted than our products, our competitive position will be impaired and we may not be able to increase our revenue or may experience decreased gross margins. If any of our competitors’ products or technologies become the industry standard, if they are successful in bringing their products to market earlier, or if their products are more technologically capable than ours, then our sales could be materially adversely affected. We may not be able 11 Table of Contents to maintain or improve our competitive position against our current or future competitors, and our failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our business. As voice and data networks converge, we are likely to face increased competition from companies in the information technology, personal and business applications and software industries. The convergence of voice and data networks and their wider deployment by enterprises has led information technology and communication applications deployed on converged networks to become more integrated. This integration has created an opportunity for the leaders in information technology, personal and business applications and the software that connects the network infrastructure to those applications, to enter the telecommunications market and offer products that compete with our systems. Competition from these potential market entrants may take many forms, and they may offer products and applications similar to those we offer. For example, Microsoft Corporation has recently announced its unified communications product roadmap. This includes its recently introduced “Office Communicator 2007,” which Microsoft stated will allow end users to control communications, including voice over IP, through the Office Communicator application on their PC, which we expect will provide functionality similar to that offered by our Personal Call Manager application. Microsoft has also announced plans to introduce Exchange Server 2007, a product that will offer competing unified messaging capabilities. Microsoft has also developed an IP phone and has licensed the rights to produce such phones to third parties. In addition, Microsoft has also entered into alliances with several of our competitors, and in July 2006 announced an extensive relationship with Nortel for the production of IP-based communications equipment that will be integrated with the Microsoft systems and Office Communicator. Microsoft and other leaders in the information technology, personal and business applications and software industries, have substantial financial and other resources that they could devote to this market. If Microsoft continues to move into the telecommunications market or if other new competitors from the information technology, personal and business applications or software industries enter the telecommunications market, the market for IP telecommunications systems will become increasingly competitive. If the solutions offered by Microsoft or other new competitors achieve substantial market penetration, we may not be able to maintain or improve our market position, and our failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. If the emerging market for enterprise IP telecommunications systems does not fully develop, our future business would be harmed. The market for enterprise IP telecommunications systems has begun to develop only recently, is evolving rapidly and is characterized by an increasing number of market entrants. As is typical of a new and rapidly evolving industry, the demand for and market acceptance of, enterprise IP telecommunications systems products and services are uncertain. We cannot assure you that enterprise telecommunications systems that operate on IP networks will become widespread. In particular, enterprises that have already invested substantial resources in other means of communicating information may be reluctant or slow to implement an IP telecommunications system that can require significant initial capital expenditures as compared to a hybrid system that might require a lower initial capital expenditure despite higher potential total expenditures over the long term. If the market for enterprise IP telecommunications systems fails to develop or develops more slowly than we anticipate, our products could fail to achieve market acceptance, which in turn could significantly harm our business. This growth may be inhibited by a number of factors, such as: • initial costs of implementation for a new system; • quality of infrastructure; • security concerns; • equipment, software or other technology failures; • regulatory encroachments; • inconsistent quality of service; 12 Table of Contents • perceived unreliability or poor voice quality over IP networks as compared to circuit-switched networks; and • lack of availability of cost-effective, high-speed network capacity. Moreover, as IP-based data communications and telecommunications usage grow, the infrastructure used to support these services, whether public or private, may not be able to support the demands placed on them and their performance or reliability may decline. Even if enterprise IP telecommunications systems become more widespread in the future, we cannot assure you that our products will attain broad market acceptance. Our operating results may fluctuate in the future, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly and annual results of operations may fluctuate in the future as a result of a variety of factors, some of which may be outside of our control. If our results of operations fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Fluctuations in our quarterly or annual results of operations may be due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to: • the timing and volume of shipments of our products during a particular period; • the timing and success of new product introductions by us or our competitors; • the timing of recognition of revenue from sales to our customers; • changes in our or our competitors’ pricing policies or sales terms; • changes in the mix of our products and services sold during a particular period; • the amount and timing of operating costs related to the maintenance and expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; • our ability to control costs, including third-party manufacturing costs and costs of components; • our ability to obtain sufficient supplies of components; • our ability to maintain sufficient production volumes for our products; • volatility in our stock price, which may lead to higher stock compensation expenses pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), Share-Based Payment, or SFAS 123(R); • publicly-announced litigation, such as the lawsuit by Mitel; • the timing of costs related to the development or acquisition of technologies or businesses; • conditions specific to the IP telecommunications market, such as rates of adoption of IP telecommunications systems and introduction of new standards; • changes in domestic and international regulatory environments affecting the Internet and telecommunications industries; • seasonality in our target markets; and • the purchasing and budgeting cycles of enterprise customers. Because our operating expenses are largely fixed in the short-term, any shortfalls in revenue in a given period would have a direct and adverse effect on our operating results in that period. We believe that our quarterly and annual revenue and results of operations may vary significantly in the future and that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. You should not rely on the results of one period as an indication of future performance. We rely on third-party resellers to sell our products, and disruptions to, or our failure to develop and manage, our distribution channels and the processes and procedures that support them could adversely affect our business. Approximately 89% of our total revenue in fiscal 2007 was generated through indirect channel sales. These indirect sales channels consist of third-party resellers that market and sell telecommunications systems and other products and 13 Table of Contents services to customers. We expect indirect channel sales will continue to generate a substantial majority of our total revenue in the future. Our future success is highly dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a variety of third-party resellers of telecommunications products and services. In addition, we rely on these entities to provide many of the installation, implementation and support services for our products. Accordingly, our success depends in large part on the effective performance of these channel partners. By relying on channel partners, we may in some cases have little or no contact with the ultimate users of our products, thereby making it more difficult for us to establish brand awareness, ensure proper delivery and installation of our products, service ongoing enterprise customer requirements and respond to evolving enterprise customer needs. This difficulty could be more pronounced in international markets, where we expect that enterprise customers will purchase our systems from a channel partner that purchased through a distributor. Additionally, some of our channel partners are smaller companies that may not have the same financial resources as other of our larger channel partners, which could in some cases expose us to additional collections risk. As of June 30, 2007 and 2006, we had approximately 470 and 340 third-party resellers, respectively, in our channel partner program. Historically, we have experienced relatively low turnover of the resellers in our program, with 46 and 19 partners leaving the program in fiscal 2007, and fiscal 2006, respectively. Recruiting and retaining qualified channel partners and training them in our technology and products requires significant time and resources. In order to develop and expand our distribution channel, we must continue to scale and improve our processes and procedures that support our channel, including investment in systems and training, and those processes and procedures may become increasingly complex and difficult to manage. We have no long-term contracts or minimum purchase commitments with any of our channel partners, and our contracts with these channel partners do not prohibit them from offering products or services that compete with ours. Our competitors may be effective in providing incentives to existing and potential channel partners to favor their products or to prevent or reduce sales of our products. Our channel partners may choose not to offer our products exclusively or at all. Our failure to establish and maintain successful relationships with channel partners would likely materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our sales cycle can be lengthy and unpredictable, which makes it difficult to forecast the amount of our sales and operating expenses in any particular period. The sales cycle for our products typically ranges from six to nine months, and in some cases can be over 12 months. Part of our strategy is to increasingly target our sales efforts on larger enterprises. Because the sales cycle for large enterprises is generally longer than for smaller enterprises, our sales cycle in the future may be even longer than it has been historically. As a result, we may have limited ability to forecast whether or in which period a sale will occur. The success of our product sales process is subject to many factors, some of which we have little or no control over, including: • the timing of enterprise customers’ budget cycles and approval processes; • a technical evaluation or trial by potential enterprise customers; • our ability to introduce new products, features or functionality in a manner that suits the needs of a particular enterprise customer; • the announcement or introduction of competing products; and • the strength of existing relationships between our competitors and potential enterprise customers. We may expend substantial time, effort and money educating our current and prospective enterprise customers as to the value of, and benefits delivered by, our products, and ultimately fail to produce a sale. If we are unsuccessful in closing sales after expending significant resources, our operating results will be adversely affected. Furthermore, if sales forecasted for a particular period do not occur in such period, our operating results for that period could be substantially lower than anticipated and the market price of our common stock could decline. 14 Table of Contents Our products incorporate some sole sourced components and the inability of these sole source suppliers to provide adequate supplies of these components may prevent us from selling our products for a significant period of time or limit our ability to deliver sufficient amounts of our products. We rely on sole or limited numbers of suppliers for several key components utilized in the assembly of our products. For example, we source semiconductors that are essential to the operation of our phones from separate single suppliers, and we have not identified or qualified any alternative suppliers for these components. We do not have supply agreements with our sole source suppliers, and the components for our products are typically procured by our contract manufacturers. If we lose access to these components we may not be able to sell our products for a significant period of time, and we could incur significant costs to redesign our products or to qualify alternative suppliers. This reliance on a sole source or limited number of suppliers involves several additional risks, including: • supplier capacity constraints; • price increases; • timely delivery; and • component quality. This reliance is exacerbated by the fact that we maintain a relatively small amount of inventory and our contract manufacturers typically acquire components only as needed. As a result, our ability to respond to enterprise customer orders efficiently may be constrained by the then-current availability or the terms and pricing of these components. Disruption or termination of the supply of these components could delay shipments of our products and could materially and adversely affect our relationships with current and prospective enterprise customers. For example, in December 2004, our power supply component vendor was unable to provide sufficient components, and we had to obtain this component from another source. Also, from time to time we have experienced component quality issues with products obtained from our contract manufacturers. For example, in the first quarter of our 2005 fiscal year, we had to expend resources to fix keys that were not working properly on some of our phones. In addition, any increase in the price of these components could reduce our gross margin and adversely impact our profitability. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain a sufficient quantity of these components to meet the demands of enterprise customers in a timely manner or that prices of these components will not increase. In addition, problems with respect to yield and quality of these components and timeliness of deliveries could occur. These delays could also materially and adversely affect our operating results. Our business may be harmed if our contract manufacturers are not able to provide us with adequate supplies. We outsource the manufacturing of our products. Currently, we have arrangements for the production of our switches with a contract manufacturer in California and for the production of our phones with a contract manufacturer located in China. Our reliance on contract manufacturers involves a number of potential risks, including the absence of adequate capacity, ownership of certain elements of electronic designs, and reduced control over delivery schedules. We depend on our contract manufacturers to finance the production of goods ordered and to maintain adequate manufacturing capacity. We do not exert direct control over our contract manufacturers, so we may be unable to procure timely delivery of acceptable products to our enterprise customers. If sales of our products continue to grow, one or both of our contract manufacturers may not have sufficient capacity to enable it to increase production to meet the demand for our products. Moreover, both of our contract manufacturers could have manufacturing engagements with companies that are much larger than we are and whose production needs are much greater than ours. As a result, one or both of our contract manufacturers may choose to devote additional resources to the production of products other than ours if capacity is limited. In addition, our contract manufacturers do not have any written contractual obligation to accept any purchase order that we submit for the manufacture of any of our products nor do we have any assurance that our contract manufacturers will agree to manufacture and supply any or all of our requirements for our products. Furthermore, either of our contract manufacturers may unilaterally terminate their relationship with us at any time upon 180 days notice with respect to the contract manufacturer of our switches and 120 days notice with respect to the contract manufacturer of our phones or seek to increase the prices they charge us. For example, in January 2005, one of our 15 Table of Contents former contract manufacturers, which at the time was the sole manufacturer of our switches, notified us that it was terminating its relationship with us upon six months of advance notice, which required us to qualify and obtain a new contract manufacturer. As a result, we are not assured that our current manufacturers will continue to provide us with an uninterrupted supply of products of at an acceptable price in the future. Even if our contract manufacturers accept and fulfill our orders, it is possible that the products may not meet our specifications. Because we do not control the final assembly and quality assurance of our products, there is a possibility that these products may contain defects or otherwise not meet our quality standards, which could result in warranty claims against us that could adversely affect our operating results and future sales. If our contract manufacturers are unable or unwilling to continue manufacturing our products in required volumes and to meet our quality specifications, or if they significantly increase their prices, we will have to identify one or more acceptable alternative contract manufacturers. The process of identifying and qualifying a new contract manufacturer can be time consuming, and we may not be able to substitute suitable alternative contract manufacturers in a timely manner or at acceptable prices. Additionally, transitioning to new contract manufacturers may cause delays in supply if the new contract manufacturers have difficulty manufacturing products to our specifications or quality standards. Furthermore, we do not own the electronic design for our phones, hence it may be more difficult or costly for us to change the contract manufacturer of our phones or to arrange for an alternate of or a replacement for these products in a timely manner should a transition be required. This could also subject us to the risk that our competitors could obtain phones containing technology that is the same as or similar to the technology in our phones. Any disruption in the supply of products from our contract manufacturers may harm our business and could result in a loss of sales and an increase in production costs, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The gross margins on our products may decrease due to competitive pressures or otherwise, which could negatively impact our profitability. It is possible that the gross margins on our products will decrease in the future in response to competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us or our competitors, changes in the costs of components or other factors. If we experience decreased gross margins and we are unable to respond in a timely manner by introducing and selling new, higher-margin products successfully and continually reducing our product costs, our gross margins may decline, which will harm our business and results of operations. If we fail to make necessary improvements to address a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately and timely, any of which could harm our business, reputation and cause the price of our common stock to decline. We had a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2007 in that we did not have sufficient internal controls related to the deferral of revenue for the entire arrangement fees associated with transactions in which vendor specific evidence of fair value, or VSOE, does not exist for undelivered product elements. If VSOE of fair value does not exist for commitments to provide specified upgrades, services or additional products to customers in the future, as has been the case from time to time in the past, we defer all revenue from the arrangement until the earlier of the point at which VSOE of fair value does exist or all such elements from the arrangement have been delivered. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the Company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. We are in the process of taking steps intended to remedy this material weakness, and we will not be able to fully address this material weakness until these steps have been completed. If we fail to maintain the number and expertise of our staff for our accounting and finance functions and to improve and maintain internal control over financial reporting adequate to meet the demands of a public company, including the requirements of the Sarbanes- 16 Table of Contents Oxley Act, we may be unable to report our financial results accurately. If we cannot do so, our business, reputation and stock price may decline. Even if we are able to report our financial statements accurately and timely, if we do not make all the necessary improvements to address the material weakness, continued disclosure of our material weakness will be required in future filings with the SEC, which could cause our reputation to be harmed and our stock price to decline. We are incurring significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will is required to devote substantial time to public company compliance initiatives. These added costs and required management focus could adversely affect our operating results. As a public company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the NASDAQ Stock Market, have imposed a variety of new requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these new compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, we expect these new rules and regulations will make it more difficult and expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we will be required to incur substantial costs to maintain the same or similar coverage. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, commencing in fiscal 2008, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. We currently do not have an internal audit group, and we have recently hired additional accounting and financial staff with public company experience and technical accounting knowledge. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm continues to note or identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the NASDAQ Stock Market, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. The increased costs associated with operating as a public company may decrease our net income or increase our net loss, and may cause us to reduce costs in other areas of our business or increase the prices of our products or services to offset the effect of such increased costs. Additionally, if these requirements divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to develop and introduce new products and features in a timely manner, or if we fail to manage product transitions, we could experience decreased revenue or decreased selling prices in the future. Our future growth depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products successfully. Due to the complexity of the type of products we produce, there are significant technical risks that may affect our ability to introduce new products and features successfully. In addition, we must commit significant resources to developing new products and features before knowing whether our investments will result in products that are accepted by the market. The success of new products depends on many factors, including: • the ability of our products to compete with the products and solutions offered by our competitors; • the cost of our products; • the reliability of our products; • the timeliness of the introduction and delivery of our products; and • the market acceptance of our products. 17 Table of Contents If we are unable to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner or in response to changing market conditions or enterprise customer requirements, or if these products do not achieve market acceptance, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Product introductions by us in future periods may also reduce demand for, or cause price declines with respect to, our existing products. As new or enhanced products are introduced, we must successfully manage the transition from older products, avoid excessive levels of older product inventories and ensure that sufficient supplies of new products can be delivered to meet enterprise customer demand. Our failure to do so could adversely affect our revenue, gross margins and other operating results. If we fail to respond to technological changes and evolving industry standards, our products could become obsolete or less competitive in the future. The telecommunications industry is highly competitive and characterized by rapidly changing technologies and standards, frequent product introductions and short product life cycles. Accordingly, our operating results depend upon, among other things, our ability to develop and introduce new products and our ability to reduce production costs of existing products. The process of developing new technologies and products is complex, and if we are unable to develop enhancements to, and new features for, our existing products or acceptable new products that keep pace with technological developments or industry standards, our products may become obsolete, less marketable and less competitive and our business will be harmed. In addition, as industry standards evolve, it is possible that one standard becomes predominant in the market. This could facilitate the entry into the market of competing products, which could result in significant pricing pressure. Additionally, if one standard becomes predominant and we adopt that standard, enterprises may be able to create a unified, integrated system by using phones, switches, servers, applications, or other telecommunications products produced by different companies. Therefore, we may be unable to sell complete systems to enterprise customers because the enterprise customers elect to purchase portions of their telecommunications systems from our competitors. For example, if a single industry standard is adopted, customers may elect to purchase our switches, but could purchase software applications and phones from other vendors. This could reduce our revenue and gross margins if enterprise customers instead purchase primarily lower-margin products from us. Conversely, if one standard becomes predominant, and we do not adopt it, potential enterprise customers may choose to buy a competing system that is based on that standard. Our products are highly complex and may contain undetected software or hardware errors, which could harm our reputation and future product sales. Because our enterprise customers rely on our products for telecommunications, an application that is critical to their business, any failure to provide high quality and reliable products, whether caused by our own failure or failures by our contract manufacturer or suppliers, could damage our reputation and reduce demand for our products. Our products have in the past contained, and may in the future contain, undetected errors or defects. Some errors in our products may only be discovered after a product has been installed and used by enterprise customers. Any errors or defects discovered in our products after commercial release could result in loss of revenue, loss of enterprise customers and increased service and warranty costs, any of which could adversely affect our business. In addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort or breach of warranty. Our purchase orders contain provisions relating to warranty disclaimers and liability limitations, which may not be upheld. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management’s attention and adversely affect the market’s perception of us and our products. In addition, if our business liability insurance coverage proves inadequate or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our business could be harmed by adverse economic conditions in our target markets or reduced spending on information technology and telecommunication products. Our business depends on the overall demand for information technology, and in particular for telecommunications systems. The market we serve is emerging and the purchase of our products involves significant upfront expenditures. In addition, the purchase of our products can be discretionary and may involve a significant commitment of capital and other resources. Weak economic conditions in our target markets, or a reduction in 18 Table of Contents information technology or telecommunications spending even if economic conditions improve, would likely adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition in a number of ways, including longer sales cycles, lower prices for our products and reduced unit sales. For example, some of our sales are derived from the financial services market, which is experiencing a downturn related to the sub-prime mortgage market defaults. Our future success depends on our ability to attract, integrate and retain key personnel, and our failure to do so could harm our ability to grow our business. Our future success will depend, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, integrate and retain our key personnel, namely our management team and experienced sales and engineering personnel. We may experience difficulty assimilating our newly hired personnel, which may adversely affect our business. In addition, we must retain and motivate high quality personnel, and we must also attract and assimilate other highly qualified employees. Competition for qualified management, technical and other personnel can be intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. Competitors have in the past and may in the future attempt to recruit our employees, and our management and key employees are not bound by agreements that could prevent them from terminating their employment at any time. If we fail to attract, integrate and retain key employees, our ability to manage and grow our business could be harmed. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our business could be harmed. We have recently experienced a period of rapid growth in our headcount and operations. In the last year and a half, we have more than doubled our workforce and significantly expanded our channel partner network and the number and size of enterprise customers implementing our systems. We anticipate that we will further expand our operations. This growth has placed, and future growth will place, a significant strain on our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. Our success will depend in part upon our ability to manage this growth effectively. To manage the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. Failure to effectively manage growth could result in difficulty in filling enterprise customer orders, declines in product quality or customer satisfaction, increases in costs or other production and distribution difficulties, and any of these difficulties could adversely impact our business performance and results of operations. We intend to expand our international operations, which could expose us to significant risks. To date we have limited international operations and have not had material revenue from international enterprise customers. The future success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to expand our operations and enterprise customer base successfully worldwide. Operating in international markets requires significant resources and management attention and will subject us to regulatory, economic and political risks that are different from those in the United States. Because of our limited experience with international operations, we cannot assure you that our international expansion efforts will be successful. In addition, we will face risks in doing business internationally that could adversely affect our business, including: • our ability to comply with differing technical and environmental standards and certification requirements outside the United States; • difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations; • greater difficulty collecting accounts receivable and longer payment cycles; • the need to adapt our products for specific countries; • availability of reliable broadband connectivity and wide area networks in targeted areas for expansion; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • difficulties in understanding and complying with local laws, regulations and customs in foreign jurisdictions; • tariffs, export controls and other non-tariff barriers such as quotas and local content rules; • more limited protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; 19 Table of Contents • adverse tax consequences; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could increase the price of our products outside of the United States, increase the expenses of our international operations and expose us to foreign currency exchange rate risk; • restrictions on the transfer of funds; and • new and different sources of competition. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our future international operations and our overall business. Failure to protect our intellectual property could substantially harm our business. Our success and ability to compete are substantially dependent upon our intellectual property. We rely on patent, trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, enterprise customers, strategic partners and others to protect our intellectual proprietary rights. However, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property rights may be inadequate. We currently have three issued patents and 12 patent applications in the United States. We also have one foreign patent application relating to one of our U.S. patents. We cannot assure you that any additional patents will be issued. Even if patents are issued, they may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights or our products against competitors, and third-parties may challenge the scope, validity and/or enforceability of our issued patents. In addition, other parties may independently develop similar or competing technologies designed around any patents that may be issued to us. In order to protect our intellectual property rights, we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect such rights. We may not be able to detect infringement, and may lose our competitive position in the market before we are able to do so. In the event that we detect any infringement of our intellectual property rights, we intend to enforce such rights vigorously, and from time to time we may initiate claims against third parties that we believe are infringing on our intellectual property rights if we are unable to resolve matters satisfactorily through negotiation. Litigation brought to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly, time-consuming and distracting to management and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights. Our failure to secure, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could harm our brand and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. If a third party asserts that we are infringing on its intellectual property, whether successful or not, it could subject us to costly and time-consuming litigation or expensive licenses, which could harm our business. There is considerable patent and other intellectual property development activity in our industry. Our success depends, in part, upon our not infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others. Our competitors, as well have a number of other entities and individuals, own or claim to own intellectual property relating to our industry. From time to time, third parties may claim that we are infringing upon their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing upon such rights. Third-parties have in the past sent us correspondence regarding their intellectual property and have filed litigation against us, and in the future we may receive claims that our products infringe or violate their intellectual property rights. In this regard, on June 27, 2007, Mitel Networks Corporation, one of our competitors, filed a lawsuit alleging that we infringed six of its patents. See “Business — Legal Proceedings” for a further discussion of this lawsuit. Furthermore, we may be unaware of the intellectual property rights of others that may cover some or all of our technology or products. Any claims or litigation could cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, could require that we pay substantial damages or ongoing royalty payments, prevent us from selling our products, damage our reputation, or require that we comply with other unfavorable terms, any of which could materially harm our business. In addition, we may decide to pay substantial settlement costs in connection with any claim or litigation, whether or not successfully asserted against us. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation regarding our intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. 20 Table of Contents Litigation with respect to intellectual property rights in the telecommunications industries is not uncommon and can often involve patent holding companies who have little or no product revenue and against whom our own patents may provide little or no deterrence. We may also be obligated to indemnify our enterprise customers or business partners in connection with any such litigation, which could further exhaust our resources. Furthermore, as a result of an intellectual property challenge, we may be required to enter into royalty, license or other agreements. We may not be able to obtain these agreements on terms acceptable to us or at all. In addition, disputes regarding our intellectual property rights may deter distributors selling our products and dissuade potential enterprise customers from purchasing such products. As such, third-party claims with respect to intellectual property may increase our cost of goods sold or reduce the sales of our products, and may have a material and adverse effect on our business. Our products include third-party technology and intellectual property, which could present additional risks. We incorporate certain third-party technologies, such as our contact center, collaboration bridge and network monitoring software, into our products, and intend to utilize additional third-party technologies in the future. However, licenses to relevant third-party technology or updates to those technologies may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Furthermore, we do not own the electronic design for our phones, hence it may be difficult for us to arrange for an alternate of or a replacement for these products in a timely manner. Therefore, we could face delays in product releases until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed or developed, and integrated into our current products. These delays, if they occur, could materially adversely affect our business. We are subject to environmental and other health and safety regulations that may increase our costs of operations or limit our activities. We are subject to environmental and other health and safety regulations relating to matters such as reductions in the use of harmful substances, the use of lead-free soldering and the recycling of products and packaging materials. For example, the European Parliament and the Counsel of the European Union have published directives on waste electrical and electronic equipment and on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. These directives generally require electronics producers to bear the cost of collection, treatment, recovery and safe disposal of past and future products from end users and to ensure that new electrical and electronic equipment does not contain specified hazardous substances. While the cost of these directives to us cannot be determined before regulations are adopted in individual member states of the European Union, it may be substantial and may divert resources, which could detract from our ability to develop new products or operate our business, particularly if we increase international operations. We may not be able to comply in all cases with applicable environmental and other regulations, and if we do not, we may incur remediation costs or we may not be able to offer our products for sale in certain countries, which could adversely affect our results. Some of our competitors could design their products to prevent or impair the interoperability of our products with enterprise customers’ networks, which could cause installations to be delayed or cancelled. Our products must interface with enterprise customer software, equipment and systems in their networks, each of which may have different specifications. To the extent our competitors supply network software, equipment or systems to our enterprise customers, it is possible these competitors could design their technologies to be closed or proprietary systems that are incompatible with our products or to work less effectively with our products than their own. As a result, enterprise customers would be incentivized to purchase products that are compatible with the products and technologies of our competitors over our products. A lack of interoperability may result in significant redesign costs and harm relations with our enterprise customers. If our products do not interoperate with our enterprise customers’ networks, installations could be delayed or orders for our products could be cancelled, which would result in losses of revenue and enterprise customers that could significantly harm our business. Our principal offices and the facilities of our contract manufacturers are located near known earthquake fault zones, and the occurrence of an earthquake or other catastrophic disaster could damage our facilities or the facilities of our contract manufacturers, which could cause us to curtail our operations. Our principal offices and the facilities of one of our contract manufacturers are located in California near known earthquake fault zones and, therefore, are vulnerable to damage from earthquakes. We and our contract 21 Table of Contents manufacturers are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, such as power loss, fire, floods and similar events. If any disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business could be seriously impaired. In addition, we may not have adequate insurance to cover our losses resulting from disasters or other similar significant business interruptions. Any significant losses that are not recoverable under our insurance policies could seriously impair our business and financial condition. Our products require reliable broadband connections, and we may be unable to sell our products in markets where broadband connections are not yet widely available. End users of our products must have reliable access to an enterprise customer’s wide area network in order for our products to perform properly. Accordingly, it is not likely that there will be demand for our products in geographic areas that do not have a sufficiently reliable infrastructure of broadband connections. Many geographic locations do not have reliable infrastructure for broadband connections, particularly in some international markets. Our future growth could be limited if broadband connections are not or do not become widely available in markets that we target. If our enterprise customers experience inadequate performance with their wide area networks, even if unrelated to our systems, our product performance could be adversely affected, which could harm our relationships with current enterprise customers and make it more difficult to attract new enterprise customers. Our products depend on the reliable performance of the wide area networks of enterprise customers. If enterprise customers experience inadequate performance with their wide area networks, whether due to outages, component failures, or otherwise, our product performance would be adversely affected. As a result, when these types of problems occur with these networks, our enterprise customers may not be able to immediately identify the source of the problem, and may conclude that the problem is related to our products. This could harm our relationships with our current enterprise customers and make it more difficult to attract new enterprise customers, which could harm our business. We might require additional capital to support our business in the future, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Although we anticipate that our current cash on hand and the proceeds from our initial public offering, which was completed in July 2007, will be sufficient to meet our currently anticipated cash needs through fiscal 2008, if our cash and cash equivalents balances and any cash generated from operations and from our initial public offering are not sufficient to meet our future cash requirements, we will need to seek additional capital, potentially through debt or equity financings, to fund our operations. We may also need to raise additional capital to take advantage of new business or acquisition opportunities. We may seek to raise capital by, among other things: • issuing additional common stock or other equity securities; • issuing debt securities; or • borrowing funds under a credit facility. We cannot assure you that we will be able to raise needed cash on terms acceptable to us or at all. Financings, if available, may be on terms that are dilutive or potentially dilutive to our stockholders, and the prices at which new investors would be willing to purchase our securities may be lower than the initial public offering price. The holders of new securities may also receive rights, preferences or privileges that are senior to those of existing holders of common stock. In addition, if we were to raise cash through a debt financing, such debt may impose conditions or restrictions on our operations, which could adversely affect our business. If new sources of financing are required but are insufficient or unavailable, we would be required to modify our operating plans to the extent of available funding, which would harm our ability to maintain or grow our business. Future sales of outstanding shares of our common stock into the market in the future could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. If our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock or the public market perceives that these sales may occur, the market price of our common stock could decline. Commencing 181 days from July 2, 2007, the lock-up and market stand off arrangements relating to our initial public offering will expire. At that time, 22 Table of Contents an additional approximately 34.5 million shares will become freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the federal securities laws, subject in some cases to the volume, manner of sale and other limitations under Rule 144 and 701. Our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover that stockholders consider favorable and could also limit the market price of our stock. Our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and applicable provisions of Delaware law may make it more difficult for or prevent a third party from acquiring control of us without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions: • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; • limit who may call a special meeting of stockholders; • establish a classified board of directors, so that not all members of our board of directors may be elected at one time; • provide our board of directors with the ability to designate the terms of and issue a new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval; • require the approval of two-thirds of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws or repeal certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation; • allow a majority of the authorized number of directors to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws without stockholder approval; • do not permit cumulative voting in the election of our directors, which would otherwise permit less than a majority of stockholders to elect directors; and • set limitations on the removal of directors. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law generally limits our ability to engage in any business combination with certain persons who own 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or any of our associates or affiliates who at any time in the past three years have owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These provisions may have the effect of entrenching our management team and may deprive you of the opportunity to sell your shares to potential acquirers at a premium over prevailing prices. This potential inability to obtain a control premium could reduce the price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 23 Table of Contents 