Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the risks described below, together with all of the other information, in evaluating our company and our common stock. If any of the risks described below actually occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and stock price. Risk Factors Relating to Unsolicited Tender Offer The unsolicited takeover attempt by Omnicare will likely require us to incur significant additional costs. On August 23, 2011, Omnicare made public an unsolicited proposal to acquire all of the outstanding shares of the Corporation’s common stock for $15.00 per share in cash. After careful consideration and consultation with our financial and legal advisors, our Board of Directors determined unanimously that Omnicare’s proposal undervalues the Corporation and was not in the best interests of our stockholders. On September 7, 2011, Omnicare, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Philadelphia Acquisition Sub, Inc., commenced an unsolicited tender offer to purchase all of the outstanding shares of our common stock at $15.00 per share, net to seller in cash without interest thereon and less any required withholding tax. On September 18, 2011, the Board again met with its financial and legal advisors, and after careful consideration, our Board of Directors again unanimously recommended that our stockholders reject the offer and not tender their shares of our common stock because it believes that Omnicare’s tender offer (i) undervalues the Corporation and its prospects, (ii) is illusory because it is subject to significant regulatory and other uncertainty, and (iii) is opportunistic based on the Corporation’s then traded market value. On October 26, 2011, the Corporation and Omnicare and their respective outside legal advisors entered into a Confidentiality and Joint Defense Agreement (the “Confidentiality and Joint Defense Agreement”) which provides, among other things, for the parties to exchange on a confidential and privileged basis information in order to facilitate their respective assessment of the antitrust risk associated with a potential combination of the two companies. Although the Corporation’s Board of Directors continues to believe that Omnicare’s $15.00 per share offer undervalues the Corporation, the Corporation is engaging in this analytical process in order to further its understanding of Omnicare’s assessment of the antitrust risk related to a combination. The Confidentiality and Joint Defense Agreement does not obligate the Corporation to enter a transaction with Omnicare and there can be no assurance that this review will lead to a definitive merger agreement or any transaction between the two companies. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Corporation incurred $2.8 million in legal and advisory fees related to the evaluation of Omnicare’s unsolicited tender offer and related actions. Responding to Omnicare’s unsolicited tender offer and related actions is expected to result in the incurrence of significant additional expenses in the future, which may be material to the Corporation’s financial position and results of operations. Litigation relating to Omnicare’s unsolicited tender offer may adversely impact our business. On September 7, 2011, Omnicare filed a lawsuit in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware against the Corporation and the members of the Board of Directors, alleging that the members of the Board of Directors breached their fiduciary duties by refusing to negotiate with Omnicare, failing to inform themselves of the merits of the tender offer, and failing to consider and negotiate the tender offer. On September 9, 2011, the Louisiana Municipal Police Employee’s Retirement System (“LMPERS”) filed a lawsuit in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware, purportedly on behalf of a class of the Corporation stockholders against the Corporation and the members of the Board of Directors, alleging the members of the Board of Directors breached their fiduciary duties to the Corporation and its stockholders by adopting the Rights Agreement and failing to respond appropriately to the tender offer. LMPERS is seeking declaratory and injunctive relief, including an order certifying the case as a class action and an order enjoining application of the Rights Agreement. 20 Table of Contents On September 22, 2011, Hugh F. Drummond as Trustee of the FBO Hugh F. Drummond Trust (“Drummond”) filed a lawsuit in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware, purportedly on behalf of a class of the Corporation’s stockholders, against the Corporation and the members of the Board of Directors, alleging that the members of the Board of Directors breached their fiduciary duties to the Corporation and its stockholders by adopting the Rights Agreement and failing to respond appropriately to the tender offer. Drummond seeks declaratory and injunctive relief, including an order certifying the case as a class action and an order enjoining the directors and the Corporation from excluding strategic bidders, including Omnicare, imposing unreasonable preconditions on such strategic bidders, refusing to provide due diligence to strategic bidders, and conducting a limited sale process not designed to produce the best transaction for PharMerica’s stockholders. On October 3, 2011, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware entered an order consolidating the LMPERS and Drummond actions under the caption In re PharMerica Corporation Shareholders Litigation, Consolidated Civil Action No. 6851-CS. Plaintiffs in the consolidated action designated the complaint filed in the Drummond action as operative. Other lawsuits may continue to be filed against us and our directors with similar or additional allegations. Such claims and any resultant litigation could subject us and our directors to liability, could be time consuming and expensive to defend, and could result in the diversion of the time and attention of our management and employees, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business. See “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3 of Part I of this Annual Report for additional information regarding certain litigation relating to Omnicare’s tender offer. Omnicare’s unsolicited tender offer is disruptive to our business. The review and consideration of Omnicare’s unsolicited tender offer and related actions by Omnicare and other stockholders, have been, and may continue to be, a significant distraction for our management and employees and have required, and may continue to require, the expenditure of significant time and resources by the Corporation. Omnicare’s tender offer and related actions have also created uncertainty for the Corporation’s employees, and this uncertainty may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees and hire new talent. Further, Omnicare’s tender offer and related actions may create uncertainty for the Corporation’s current and potential business partners. This uncertainty may cause our current and potential business partners to change or terminate their business relationship with us. Uncertainty and speculation regarding Omnicare’s tender offer and related actions may cause increased volatility in our stock price. In addition, if a transaction does not occur, or the market perceives that a transaction is unlikely to occur, our stock price may decline. Omnicare’s tender offer and related actions have created and may continue to create uncertainty for the Corporation’s current and potential customers. This uncertainty may cause our current customers to change or terminate their business relationship with us and our potential customers not to commence a business relationship with us. 21 Table of Contents Pursuant to the requirements of the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, and the regulations thereunder (the “HSR Act”), Omnicare filed a Notification and Report Form with the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice (the “Antitrust Division”) and the Federal Trade Commission (the “FTC”) relating to its proposed acquisition of the Corporation on September 7, 2011. On or about September 19, 2011, the Corporation submitted a responsive Notification and Report Form with the Antitrust Division and the FTC. On September 22, 2011, the Corporation received a request for additional information from the FTC relating to the tender offer. On September 22, 2011, Omnicare also received a request for additional information from the FTC relating to the tender offer (the “Second Request”). The Second Request extended the waiting period under the HSR Act for 10 calendar days after the date Omnicare certified substantial compliance with the Second Request issued to Omnicare. On September 30, 2011 the FTC also issued a subpoena and civil investigative demand to the Corporation covering the same subject matter as the Second Request. The Corporation has produced a considerable amount of material in response to the FTC requests. Responding to the FTC’s requests has required the expenditure of significant time and resources by the Corporation. On November 18, 2011 Omnicare certified to the FTC that it had substantially complied with the Second Request. On November 18, 2011, Omnicare also executed a timing agreement with the FTC pursuant to which Omnicare agreed (i) to provide 14 days notice to the FTC prior to consummating its proposed acquisition and (ii) not to consummate its proposed acquisition prior to December 19, 2011 without the consent of the FTC. On December 2, 2011, Omnicare agreed with the FTC to extend the date prior to which Omnicare will not consummate its proposed acquisition to January 19, 2012, unless the FTC notifies Omnicare that it has closed its investigation relating to its proposed acquisition. On January 10, 2012, Omnicare agreed with the FTC that it will not consummate its proposed acquisition prior to January 26, 2012, unless the FTC notifies Omnicare that it has closed its investigation relating to its proposed acquisition. On January 27, 2012, the FTC issued an administrative complaint to block Omnicare’s proposed acquisition of the Corporation. The complaint alleges that the proposed acquisition would be illegal and in violation of Section 15 of the FTC Act and Section 7 of the Clayton Act because it would harm competition and enable Omnicare to raise the price of drugs for Medicare Part D consumers and others. The case is scheduled to be heard before an administrative law judge at the FTC in June 2012. The impact of Omnicare’s tender offer due to these and other factors may undermine our business and have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. Omnicare may undertake a proxy solicitation to elect its own slate of nominees for the Board of Directors at the Corporation’s 2012 annual meeting of stockholders. Omnicare has publicly stated that it may nominate and solicit proxies for the election of a slate of director nominees at the 2012 annual meeting of the Corporation’s stockholders. If the Omnicare nominees are elected to our Board of Directors, the ability of management to work effectively and efficiently with our Board of Directors with respect to the day to day operations and development of the Corporation may be restricted, and as a result, the Corporation’s business may be adversely impacted. Risk Factors Relating to the Pharmacy Transaction We may be charged for services and products from one of our former parents at amounts greater than those charged prior to the Pharmacy Transaction and those charged by third-parties. Before the Pharmacy Transaction, our business was part of two separate public companies. Our former parent companies performed many corporate functions at costs that are less than those that are presently being charged. Kindred provides information technology services under the Information Technology Services Agreement. During the term of the Information Technology Services Agreement, we are not able to negotiate potentially better terms and thus this existing agreement could negatively impact our results of operations, financial position and competitive position. 22 Table of Contents Risk Factors Relating to Our Business Financial soundness of our customers and suppliers may adversely affect our results of operations. If our customers’ operating and financial performance deteriorates, or if they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain credit, our customers may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable owed to us. Any inability of customers to pay us for our products and services may adversely affect our earnings and cash flow. Additionally, both state and federal government sponsored payers, as a result of budget deficits or reductions, may seek to reduce their health care expenditures resulting in the long-term care customers renegotiating their contracts with us. Any reduction in payments by such government sponsored payers may adversely affect our earnings and cash flow. Also some of customers’ real estate is owned by Real Estate Investment Trusts limiting their ability to renegotiate rental costs furthering their desire to reduce other controllable costs, such as pharmacy costs. Intense competition may erode our profit margins. The distribution of pharmaceuticals to healthcare facilities is highly competitive. In each geographic market, there are national, regional and local institutional pharmacies and numerous local retail pharmacies, which provide services comparable to those offered by our pharmacies and which may have greater financial and other resources than we do and may be more established in the markets they serve than we are. We also compete against regional and local pharmacies that specialize in long-term care. Many of our competitors have equal or greater resources and access to capital than the Corporation. In addition, local pharmacies have strong personal relationships with their customers. Because relatively few barriers to entry exist in the local markets we serve, we may encounter substantial competition from local market entrants. In addition, owners of skilled nursing facilities are also entering the institutional pharmacy market, particularly in areas of their geographic concentration. Consolidation within the institutional pharmacy industry may also lead to increased competition. Competitive pricing pressures may adversely affect our earnings and cash flow. We compete based on innovation and service as well as price. To attract new clients and retain existing clients, we must continually meet service expectations of our clients and customers. We cannot be sure that we will continue to remain competitive with the service to our clients at our current levels of profitability. If we lose relationships with one or more key pharmaceutical manufacturers or if the payments made or discounts provided by pharmaceutical manufacturers decline, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. We maintain contractual relationships with numerous pharmaceutical manufacturers that may provide us with, among other things: • discounts for drugs we purchase to be dispensed from our institutional pharmacies; • rebates based upon distributions of drugs from our institutional pharmacies; and • administrative fees for managing rebate programs. If several of these contractual relationships are terminated or materially altered by the pharmaceutical manufacturers, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. In addition, formulary fee programs have been the subject of debate in federal and state legislatures and various other public and 23 Table of Contents governmental forums. Changes in existing laws or regulations or in interpretations of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations relating to any of these programs may materially adversely affect our business. Our operating revenue and profitability may suffer upon the occurrence of the loss of certain customers. We have a number of customers that own or operate numerous facilities in our institutional pharmacy segment. In addition, our hospital segment revenues are primarily derived from one large multi-facility customer. If we are not able to continue these relationships or are only able to continue these relationships on less favorable terms than the ones currently in place, our operating revenues and results of operations would be materially impacted. There can be no assurance that these customers will not terminate all or a portion of their contracts with the Corporation. Our operating revenue and profitability may suffer because of an increase in our generic dispensing rate. A shift in prescriptions dispensed from brand-to-generic and a decline in generic reimbursement rates from the PDP/PBMs may affect our operating revenue. When a branded drug shifts to a generic, initial pricing of the generic drug in the market will vary depending on the number of manufacturers launching their generic version of the drug. Historically a shift from brand-to-generic decreased our revenue and improved our gross margin from sales of these classes of drugs during the initial time period a brand drug has a generic alternative. However, recent experience has indicated that the third-party payers may reduce their reimbursements to the Corporation faster than previously experienced. This acceleration in the reimbursement reduction has resulted in margin compression as multi-source alternatives have become available much earlier than we have historically experienced. Due to the unique nature of the brand-to-generic conversion, management cannot estimate the future financial impact of the brand-to-generic conversions on its results of operations. If we fail to comply with complex and rapidly evolving laws and regulations, we could suffer penalties, be required to pay substantial damages or make significant changes to our operations. We are subject to numerous federal and state regulations. If we fail to comply with existing or future applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties, including the loss of our licenses to operate our institutional pharmacies and our ability to participate in federal and state healthcare programs. As a consequence of the severe penalties we could face, we must devote significant operational and managerial resources to complying with these laws and regulations. Although we believe that we are substantially compliant with all existing statutes and regulations applicable to our business, different interpretations and enforcement policies of these laws and regulations could subject our current practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality, or could require us to make significant changes to our operations. In addition, we cannot predict the impact of future legislation and regulatory changes on our business or assure that we will be able to obtain or maintain the regulatory approvals required to operate our business. As a result of political, economic, and regulatory influences, the healthcare delivery industry in the United States is under intense scrutiny and subject to fundamental changes. We cannot predict which reform proposals will be adopted, when they may be adopted, or what impact they may have on us. The costs associated with complying with federal and state regulations could be significant and the failure to comply with any such legal requirements could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. Pharmaceutical products can develop unexpected safety or efficacy concerns. Unexpected safety or efficacy concerns can arise with respect to marketed products, whether or not scientifically justified, leading to product recalls, withdrawals or declining sales. If we fail to or do not promptly withdraw pharmaceutical products upon a recall by a drug manufacturer, our business and results of operations could be negatively impacted. 24 Table of Contents Legal and regulatory changes reducing reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals and/or medical treatments or services may reduce our profitability. Both our own profit margins and the profit margins of our customers may be adversely affected by laws and regulations reducing reimbursement rates and charges. The sources and amounts of our revenues are determined by a number of factors, including licensed bed capacity and occupancy rates of our customers, the number of drugs administered to patients, the mix of pharmaceuticals dispensed, whether the drugs are brand or generic, and the rates of reimbursement among payers. Changes in the number of drugs administered to patients, as well as payer mix among private pay, Medicare and Medicaid, in our customers’ facilities will significantly affect our earnings and cash flow. Further Modifications to the Medicare Part D Program May Reduce Revenue and Impose Additional Costs to the Industry. The Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 or MMA included a major expansion of the Medicare program with the addition of a prescription drug benefit under the new Medicare Part D program. The continued impact of these regulations depends upon a variety of factors, including our ongoing relationships with the Part D Plans and the patient mix of our customers. Future modifications to the Medicare Part D program may reduce revenue and impose additional costs to the industry. In addition, we cannot assure you that Medicare Part D and the regulations promulgated under Medicare Part D will not have a material adverse effect on our institutional pharmacy business. Reductions in manufacturer rebates may reduce our profitability. Our pharmacies receive rebates from pharmaceutical manufacturers for undertaking certain activities that the manufacturers believe may increase the likelihood that their respective products will be dispensed. CMS has questioned whether long-term care pharmacies should be permitted to receive discounts, rebates and other price concessions from pharmaceutical manufacturers with respect to prescriptions covered under the Medicare Part D benefit. Our business would be adversely affected if CMS should take any action that has the effect of eliminating or significantly reducing the rebates that we receive from pharmaceutical manufacturers. Changes in Medicaid Reimbursement may reduce our revenue. The 2010 Health Care Legislation amended the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (the “DRA”) to change the definition of the FUL by requiring the calculation of the FUL as no less than 175% of the weighted average, based on utilization, of the most recently reported monthly AMP for pharmaceutically and therapeutically equivalent multi-source drugs available through retail community pharmacies nationally. In addition, the definition of AMP changed to reflect net sales only to drug wholesalers that distribute to retail community pharmacies and to retail community pharmacies that directly purchase from drug manufacturers. Further, the 2010 Health Care Legislation continues the current statutory exclusion of prompt pay discounts offered to wholesalers and adds three other exclusions to the AMP definition; i) bona fide services fees; ii) reimbursement for unsalable returned goods (recalled, expired, damaged, etc.); and iii) payments from and rebates/discounts to certain entities not conducting business as a wholesaler or retail community pharmacy. In addition to reporting monthly, the manufacturers are required to report the total number of units used to calculate each monthly AMP. CMS will use this information when it establishes the FUL as a result of the new volume-weighted requirements pursuant to the 2010 Health Care Legislation. In September 2011, CMS issued the first draft FUL reimbursement files for multiple source drugs, including the draft methodology used to calculate the FULs in accordance with the Health Care Legislation. These draft FUL prices are based on the manufacturer reported and certified July 2011 monthly AMP and AMP unit data. CMS continues to release this data monthly and is expected to do so going forward. CMS has not posted monthly AMPs for individual drugs, but only posted the weighted average of monthly AMPs in a FUL group and the calculation methodology. 25 Table of Contents On February 2, 2012, CMS issued a proposed regulation further clarifying the AMP and FUL changes described above and indicated that the final rule will be issued sometime in 2013. Until CMS provides final guidance and the industry adapts to this now public available pricing information, the Corporation is unable to fully evaluate the impact of the changes in FUL and AMP to its business. Adverse results in material litigation matters or governmental inquiries could have a material adverse effect upon the Corporation’s business. The Corporation may from time to time become subject in the ordinary course of business to material legal action related to, among other things, intellectual property disputes, professional liability and employee-related matters, as well as inquiries from governmental agencies and Medicare or Medicaid carriers requesting comment and information on allegations of billing irregularities and other matters that are brought to their attention through billing audits, third parties or other sources. The health care industry is subject to substantial federal and state government regulation and audit. Legal actions could result in substantial monetary damages as well as damage to the Corporation’s reputation with customers, which could have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. If we or our customers fail to comply with Medicare and Medicaid regulations, we may be subjected to penalties or loss of eligibility to participate in these programs. The Medicare and Medicaid programs are highly regulated. These programs are also subject to frequent and substantial changes. If we or our customers’ facilities fail to comply with applicable reimbursement laws and regulations, whether purposely or inadvertently, our reimbursement under these programs could be curtailed or reduced and our eligibility to continue to participate in these programs could be adversely affected. Federal or state governments may also impose other penalties on us for failure to comply with the applicable reimbursement regulations. Failure by our customers to comply with these or future laws and regulations could result in our inability to provide pharmacy services to these customers and their residents. We do not believe that we have taken any actions that could subject us to material penalties under these rules and regulations. Among these laws is the federal anti-kickback statute. This statute prohibits anyone from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying any remuneration with the intent to refer, or to arrange for the referral or order of, services or items payable under a federal healthcare program. Courts have interpreted this statute broadly. Violations of the anti-kickback statute may be punished by a criminal fine of up to $25,000 for each violation or imprisonment, civil money penalties of up to $50,000 per violation and damages of up to three times the total amount of the remuneration and/or exclusion from participation in federal health care programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. This law impacts the relationships that we may have with potential referral sources. We have a variety of relationships with potential referral sources, including hospitals and skilled nursing facilities with which we have contracted to provide pharmacy services. The Office of Inspector General at HHS, or OIG, among other regulatory agencies, is responsible for identifying and eliminating fraud, abuse or waste. The OIG carries out this responsibility through a nationwide program of audits, investigations and inspections. The OIG has promulgated safe harbor regulations that outline practices that are deemed protected from prosecution under the anti-kickback statute. While we endeavor to comply with the applicable safe harbors, certain of our current arrangements may not qualify for safe harbor protection. Failure to meet a safe harbor does not mean that the arrangement necessarily violates the anti-kickback statute, but may subject the arrangement to greater scrutiny. It cannot be assured that practices outside of a safe harbor will not be found to violate the anti- kickback statute. The anti-kickback statute and similar state laws and regulations are expansive. We do not always have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws and regulations. In the future, different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality, or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, 26 Table of Contents personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. A determination that we have violated these laws, or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of these laws, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or prospects and our business reputation could suffer significantly. If we fail to comply with the anti-kickback statute or other applicable laws and regulations, we could be subjected to liabilities, including criminal penalties, civil penalties (including the loss of our licenses to operate one or more facilities), and exclusion of one or more facilities from participation in the Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state health care programs. In addition, we are unable to predict whether other legislation or regulations at the federal or state level will be adopted, what form such legislation or regulations may take or their impact. Continuing government and private efforts to contain healthcare costs may reduce our future revenue. We could be adversely affected by the continuing efforts of government and private payers to contain healthcare costs. To reduce healthcare costs, payers seek to lower reimbursement rates, limit the scope of covered services and negotiate reduced or capped pricing arrangements. While many of the proposed policy changes would require congressional approval to implement, we cannot assure you that reimbursement payments under governmental and private third party payer programs will remain at levels comparable to present levels or will be sufficient to cover the costs allocable to patients eligible for reimbursement under these programs. Any changes that lower reimbursement rates under Medicare, Medicaid or private pay programs could result in a substantial reduction in our net operating revenues. Our operating margins may continue to be under pressure because of deterioration in reimbursement, changes in payer mix and growth in operating expenses in excess of increases, if any, in payments by third party payers. For instance, the short cycle dispensing requirements set forth in the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, which would become effective January 2013, could impact our revenues and our profitability if the costs associated therewith are not fully reimbursed by the appropriate payers. Healthcare reform could adversely affect the liquidity of our customers which would have an adverse effect on their ability to make timely payments to us for our products and services. Healthcare reform and legislation may have an adverse effect on our business through decreasing funds available to our customers. Limitations or restrictions on Medicare and Medicaid payments to our customers could adversely impact the liquidity of our customers, resulting in their inability to pay us, or to timely pay us, for our products and services. This inability could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and liquidity. The changing U.S. healthcare industry and increasing enforcement environment may negatively impact our business. Our products and services are part of the structure of the healthcare financing and reimbursement system currently existing in the United States. In recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant changes in an effort to reduce costs and government spending. These changes include an increased reliance on managed care, cuts in Medicare funding affecting our healthcare provider customer base and consolidation of competitors, suppliers and customers. We expect the healthcare industry to continue to change significantly in the future. Some of these potential changes, such as a reduction in governmental support of healthcare services or adverse changes in legislation or regulations governing prescription drug pricing, healthcare services or mandated benefits, may cause healthcare providers to reduce the amount of our products and services they purchase or the price they are willing to pay for our products and services. If we are unable to adjust to changes in the healthcare environment, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Further, both federal and state government agencies have increased their focus on and coordination of civil and criminal enforcement efforts in the healthcare area. The OIG and the U.S. Department of Justice have, from 27 Table of Contents time to time, established national enforcement initiatives, targeting all providers of a particular type, that focus on specific billing practices or other suspected areas of abuse. In addition, under the federal False Claims Act, private parties have the right to bring “qui tam” whistleblower lawsuits against companies that submit false claims for payments to the government. A number of states have adopted similar state whistleblower and false claims provisions. We do not believe that we have taken any actions that could subject us to material penalties under these provisions. Further consolidation of managed care organizations and other third-party payers may adversely affect our profits. Managed care organizations and other third-party payers have continued to consolidate in order to enhance their ability to influence the delivery of healthcare services. Consequently, the healthcare needs of a large percentage of the U.S. population are increasingly served by a small number of managed care organizations. These organizations generally enter into service agreements with a limited number of providers for needed services. In addition, private payers, including managed care payers, increasingly are demanding discounted fee structures. To the extent that these organizations terminate us as a preferred provider, engage our competitors as a preferred or exclusive provider or demand discounted fee structures, our liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Possible changes in, or our failure to satisfy our manufacturers’ rebate programs could adversely affect our results of operations. We currently earn rebates from certain manufacturers of pharmaceutical products for meeting tiered market share and purchase volumes. There can be no assurance that pharmaceutical manufacturers will continue to offer these rebates or that they will not change the terms upon which rebates are offered. A decrease in prescription volumes dispensed or a decrease in the number of brand or generic drugs which participate in rebate programs and are used by the geriatric population could affect our ability to satisfy our manufacturers’ rebate programs. The termination of such programs or our failure to satisfy the criterion for earning rebates may have an adverse affect on our cost of goods sold, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. If we or our customers fail to comply with licensure requirements, laws and regulations in respect of healthcare fraud or other applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. Our pharmacies must be licensed by the state board of pharmacy in the state in which they operate. Many states also regulate out-of-state pharmacies that are delivering prescription products to patients or residents in their states. The failure to obtain or renew any required regulatory approvals or licenses could adversely impact the operation of our business. In addition, the healthcare facilities we service are also subject to extensive federal, state and local regulations and are required to be licensed in the states in which they are located. The failure by these healthcare facilities to comply with these or future regulations or to obtain or renew any required licenses could result in our inability to provide pharmacy services to these facilities and their residents and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. While we believe that we are in substantial compliance with all applicable laws, many of the regulations applicable to us, including those relating to marketing incentives offered by pharmaceutical suppliers, and rebates paid by pharmaceutical manufacturers are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts. They may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations. These changes may be material and may require the expenditure of material funds to implement. We believe that the regulatory environment surrounding most segments of the healthcare industry remains intense. Federal and state governments continue to impose intensive enforcement policies resulting in a significant number of inspections, citations of regulatory deficiencies and other regulatory sanctions including demands for refund of overpayments, terminations from the Medicare and Medicaid 28 Table of Contents programs, bans on Medicare and Medicaid payments and fines. If we or our customers fail to comply with the extensive applicable laws and regulations, we could become ineligible to receive government program reimbursement, suffer civil or criminal penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. In addition, we could be forced to expend considerable resources responding to an investigation or other enforcement action under these laws or regulations regardless of whether we have actually been involved in any violations or wrong-doing. Federal and state medical privacy regulations may increase the costs of operations and expose us to civil and criminal sanctions. We must comply with extensive federal and state requirements regarding the transmission and retention of health information. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and its implementing regulations, referred to as HIPAA, was enacted to ensure that employees can retain and at times transfer their health insurance when they change jobs, to enhance the privacy and security of personal health information and to simplify healthcare administrative processes. HIPAA requires the adoption of standards for the exchange of electronic health information. Failure to comply with HIPAA could result in fines and penalties that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Acquisitions, investments and strategic alliances that we have made or may make in the future may use significant resources, may be unsuccessful and could expose us to unforeseen liabilities. We have made and anticipate that we may continue to make acquisitions of, investments in and strategic alliances with complementary businesses to enable us to capitalize on our position in the geographic markets in which we operate and to expand our businesses in new geographic markets. At any particular time, we may be in various stages of assessment, discussion and negotiation with regard to one or more potential acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances, not all of which, if any, will be consummated. Our acquisition program and strategy has and may lead us to contemplate acquisitions of companies in bankruptcy or financial distress, all of which entail additional risks and uncertainties. Such risks and uncertainties include, without limitation, that, before assets may be acquired, customers may leave in search of more stable providers and vendors may terminate key relationships. Also, assets are generally acquired on an “as is” basis, with no recourse to the seller if the assets are not as valuable as may be represented. Finally, while bankrupt companies may be acquired for comparatively little money, the cost of continuing the operations may significantly exceed expectations. Our growth plans rely, in part, on the successful completion of future acquisitions. If we are unsuccessful, our business would suffer. We intend to make public disclosure of pending and completed acquisitions when appropriate or required by applicable securities laws and regulations. Acquisitions may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, additional operating losses, amortization of certain intangible assets of acquired companies, and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Acquisitions involve numerous risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation: • difficulties integrating acquired operations, personnel and information systems, or in realizing projected efficiencies and cost savings; • diversion of management’s time from existing operations; • potential loss of key employees or customers of acquired companies; • inaccurate assessment of assets and liabilities and exposure to undisclosed or unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, including liabilities for failure to comply with healthcare laws; • increases in our indebtedness and a limitation on our ability to access additional capital when needed; and • failure to operate acquired facilities profitably or to achieve improvements in their financial performance. 29 Table of Contents Risks generally associated with our sophisticated information systems may adversely affect our results of operations. We rely on sophisticated information systems in our business to obtain, rapidly process, analyze, and manage data to facilitate the dispensing of prescription and non-prescription pharmaceuticals in accordance with physician orders and deliver those medications to patients and long-term care residents on a timely basis; to manage the accurate billing and collections for thousands of customers; and to process payments to suppliers. Our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected if these systems are interrupted or damaged or if they fail for an extended period of time. We purchase a significant portion of our pharmaceutical products from one supplier—AmerisourceBergen. We are required to purchase a substantial amount of our pharmaceutical products from AmerisourceBergen, pursuant to the Amended Prime Vendor Agreement. If AmerisourceBergen fails to deliver products in accordance with the Amended Prime Vendor Agreement, there can be no assurance that our operations would not be disrupted or that we could obtain the products at similar cost or at all. In this event, failure to satisfy our customers’ requirements would result in defaults under these customer contracts subjecting us to damages and the potential termination of those contracts. Such events could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. In addition, under the terms of the Amended Prime Vendor Agreement, we are unable to negotiate potentially better pricing and other terms with other drug distributors which could negatively impact our competitive position. Prescription volumes may decline, and our net revenues and profitability may be negatively impacted, if products are withdrawn from the market or if increased safety risk profiles of specific drugs result in utilization decreases. We dispense significant volumes of drugs from our pharmacies. These volumes are the basis for our net revenues and profitability. When increased safety risk profiles of specific drugs or classes of drugs result in utilization decreases, physicians may cease writing or reduce the numbers of prescriptions written for these drugs. Additionally, negative press regarding drugs with higher safety risk profiles may result in reduced consumer demand for such drugs. On occasion, products are withdrawn by their manufacturers. In cases where there are no acceptable prescription drug equivalents or alternatives for these prescription drugs, our volumes, net revenues, profitability and cash flows may decline. We could be required to record a material non-cash charge to income if our recorded goodwill or intangible assets are impaired, or if we shorten intangible asset useful lives. We have $214.2 million of goodwill and $100.2 million of recorded intangible assets, net, on our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2011. Our intangible assets primarily represent the value of client relationships that were recorded from past acquisitions. Under current accounting rules, intangible assets are amortized over their useful lives. These assets may become impaired with the loss of significant clients. If the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the undiscounted pre-tax expected future cash flows from the lowest appropriate asset grouping, we would be required to record a non-cash impairment charge to our consolidated income statements in the amount the carrying value of these assets exceeds its fair value. In addition, while the intangible assets may not be impaired, the useful lives are subject to continual assessment, taking into account historical and expected losses of relationships that were in the base at time of acquisition. This assessment may result in a reduction of the remaining weighted average useful life of these assets, resulting in potentially significant increases to non-cash amortization expense that is charged to our consolidated income statements. A goodwill or intangible asset impairment charge, or a reduction of useful lives, could have a material effect on our results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we incurred a pre-tax impairment charge of $5.1 million or $0.11 per diluted common share as a result of non-renewal of certain customer contracts related to a pre-Pharmacy Transaction acquisition. 30 Table of Contents We primarily obtain our information services from one provider. Failure to provide information services in a timely manner could cause delays in the delivery of our services, which could damage our reputation, cause us to lose customers and negatively impact our growth. We obtain substantially all of our information services from Kindred, one of our former parent companies, pursuant to the IT Services Agreement. Kindred is not in the business of providing comprehensive information technology outsourcing services to third parties and does not have any significant prior experience providing comprehensive outsourcing information technology services for any third party. If Kindred or other third parties upon whom we are dependent fail to devote sufficient time and resources to us or if their performance is substandard, our business may be harmed. Any delays, malfunctions, inefficiencies or interruptions in these products or services could adversely affect the reliability or operation of our business, which could cause us to experience difficulty retaining current customers and attracting new customers. This could result in our failure to satisfy our customers’ requirements or comply with certain of our financial or regulatory reporting requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. We are highly dependent on our senior management team and our pharmacy professionals. We are highly dependent upon the members of our senior management and our pharmacists and other pharmacy professionals. Our business is managed by a small number of senior management personnel. If we were unable to retain these persons, we might be materially adversely affected due to the limited pool of senior management personnel with significant experience in our industry. Accordingly, we believe we could experience significant difficulty in replacing key management personnel. We expect that any employment contracts we enter into with our key management personnel will be subject to termination without cause by either party. Moreover, although the majority of the members of our senior management team have significant experience in the industry, they will need time to fully assess and understand our business and operations. We can offer no assurance how long these members of senior management will choose to remain with us. In addition, our continued success depends on our ability to attract and retain pharmacists and other pharmacy professionals. Competition for qualified pharmacists and other pharmacy professionals is intense. The loss of pharmacy personnel or the inability to attract or retain sufficient numbers of qualified pharmacy professionals could adversely affect our business. Although we generally have been able to meet our staffing requirements for pharmacists and other pharmacy professionals, our inability to do so in the future could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Risk Factors Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock and Our Senior Secured Credit Facility Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and provisions of Delaware law could delay or prevent a change of control that stockholders favor. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or other change of control that stockholders may consider favorable or may impede the ability of the holders of our common stock to change our management and Board of Directors. The provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, among other things: • prohibit stockholder action except at an annual or special meeting. Specifically, this means our stockholders are unable to act by written consent; • regulate how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at annual meetings of stockholders. Advance notice of such proposals or nominations is required; • regulate how special meetings of stockholders may be called. Our stockholders do not have the right to call special meetings; • authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock in one or more series, without stockholder approval. Under this authority, our Board of Directors adopted the Rights Agreement which could 31 Table of Contents ensure continuity of management by rendering it more difficult for a potential acquirer to obtain control of us; and • require an affirmative vote of the holders of three-quarters or more of the combined voting power of our common stock entitled to vote in the election of our directors in order for the stockholders to amend our bylaws. In addition, because we have not chosen to be exempt from Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (“DGCL”), this provision could also delay or prevent a change of control that some stockholders may view as favorable. Section 203 provides that unless board and/or stockholder approval is obtained pursuant to the requirements of the statute, persons that acquire, or are affiliated with a person that acquires, more than 15% of the outstanding voting stock of a Delaware corporation shall not engage in any business combination with that corporation, including by merger, consolidation or acquisitions of additional shares, for a three-year period following the date on which that person or its affiliate becomes the holder of more than 15% of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock. On August 25, 2011, the Board of Directors adopted the Rights Agreement, providing for the distribution of one right for each share of common stock outstanding. Each right entitles the holder to purchase one one-thousandth (1/1000th) of a share of Series A Junior Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation at a price of $45.00 per one one-thousandth (1/1000th) of a share, subject to adjustment. The Rights generally become exercisable at the discretion of the Board of Directors following a public announcement that 15% or more of the Corporation’s common stock has been acquired or an intent to acquire has become apparent. The Rights will expire on the earlier of August 25, 2021 or redemption or exchange by the Corporation. However, the Rights will expire immediately at the final adjournment of the Corporation’s 2012 annual meeting of stockholders if stockholder approval of the Rights Agreement has not been received prior to that time. Certain terms of the rights are subject to adjustment to prevent dilution. Further description and terms of the rights are set forth in the Rights Agreement dated August 25, 2011 between the Corporation and Mellon Investors Services LLC, as Rights Agent. On August 25, 2011, the Board of Directors declared a dividend of one preferred share purchase right for each outstanding share of common stock. The dividend was paid on September 6, 2011 to the stockholders of record on September 6, 2011. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including, without limitation the following: • as a result of the risk factors listed in this document; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations; • for reasons unrelated to our specific performance, such as reports by industry analysts, investor perceptions, or negative announcements by our customers or competitors regarding their own performance; • changes in the outlook for a potential business combination transaction with Omnicare; • regulatory changes that could impact our business or that of our customers; and • general economic and industry conditions. In addition, when the market price of a company’s common stock drops significantly, stockholders often institute securities class action lawsuits against the company. A lawsuit against us could cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of our management and other resources. 32 Table of Contents Acquisitions, investments and strategic alliances we may make in the future may need to be financed by borrowings from the senior secured credit facility for which funds may not be made available by certain participants. We have made and anticipate that we may continue to make acquisitions of, investments in and strategic alliances with complementary businesses to enable us to capitalize on our position in the geographic markets in which we operate and to expand our business in new geographic markets. Our growth plans rely, in part, on the successful completion of future acquisitions. At any particular time, we may need to finance such acquisitions and strategic alliances with borrowings from our senior secured credit facility. The financial markets are very volatile and certain participants in our senior secured credit facility may not be able to participate in funding their commitments under the revolving line of credit. If we are unsuccessful in obtaining the financing, our business would be impacted. We are exposed to interest rate changes. We are exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates. As of December 31, 2011, we had outstanding debt of $300.0 million, all of which was subject to variable rates of interest. See Item 7A., “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” We have indebtedness, which restricts our ability to pay cash dividends and has a negative impact on our financing options and liquidity. We have $300.0 million in indebtednesses outstanding as of December 31, 2011 under our senior secured credit facility and revolver. The credit agreement contains customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness. The senior secured credit facility also contains financial covenants that require us to satisfy certain financial tests and maintain certain financial ratios, including a maximum of debt to EBITDA ratio. The senior secured credit facility limits our ability to declare and pay dividends or other distributions on our shares of common stock. If our lenders permit us to declare dividends, the dividend amounts, if any, will be determined by our Board of Directors, which will consider a number of factors, including our financial condition, capital requirements, funds generated from operations, future business prospects, applicable contractual restrictions and any other factors our Board of Directors may deem relevant. The amount of this outstanding indebtedness could limit our ability to pay cash dividends and to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditure and acquisition purposes. A significant portion of our cash flows will be dedicated to debt service and will be unavailable for investment, capital expenditures or other operating expenses. As a result of these and other factors, we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we do not generate or are unable to borrow sufficient amounts of cash on satisfactory terms to meet these needs, we may need to seek to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, sell assets, curtail discretionary capital expenditures or seek additional capital. There can be no assurance that additional capital will be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, liquidity, capital resources, and financial position. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by our financial results and we do not anticipate paying any distributions in the foreseeable future. We anticipate that future earnings will be used principally to support operations and finance the growth of our business. Thus, we do not intend to pay dividends or other cash distributions on our common stock in the foreseeable future. See Part II, Item 5 “Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.” 33 Table of Contents We entered into a senior secured credit facility providing for both term and revolving credit borrowings. Our ability to make payments on our existing and future debt and to fund working capital needs and planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future, which is largely subject to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory, legislative and other factors that are beyond our control. Cost containment and lower reimbursement levels relative to increases in cost by third party payers, including federal and state governments, could have a significant negative impact on our business and on our cash flows. Our operating margins continue to be under pressure because of continuing reimbursement and regulatory changes and growth in our operating expenses, such as product and labor costs. See Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 34 Table of Contents 