Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the risks described below, together with all of the other information, in evaluating our company and our common stock. If any of the risks described below actually occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial results, financial condition and stock price. Risk Factors Relating to the Pharmacy Transaction We have a limited history operating as a stand-alone, publicly traded company on which you can evaluate our performance. Before the Pharmacy Transaction, we operated as separate businesses of two different companies. We have a limited operating history as a combined business or as a stand-alone, publicly traded company. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our business strategy and operations will be successful on a combined stand-alone basis. We may not be able to grow or integrate our business as planned and may not be profitable. 16 Table of Contents Limited historical financial statements showing our operation of the businesses of PharMerica LTC and KPS as a combined, stand-alone company exist upon which you can evaluate our prospects. We have operated the businesses of PharMerica LTC and KPS on a combined, stand-alone basis only since July 31, 2007. Therefore, we have limited historical financial statements as an independent, stand-alone company upon which you can evaluate us. The historical results reflected in this Form 10-K are those of KPS only prior to July 31, 2007. The historical financial information may not be indicative of our future results as a stand-alone, publicly traded company. The historical financial statements of KPS do not reflect what our financial position, results of operations and cash flows would have been had we been operated as a combined business and a stand-alone, publicly traded company during the periods prior to the Pharmacy Transaction or be indicative of what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows may be in the future. This is primarily a result of the following factors: • the historical financial statements do not reflect certain changes that occurred in our funding and operations as a result of the Pharmacy Transaction; • our historical financial information reflects estimated allocations for services historically provided by Kindred, and we expect these allocations to be different from the costs we will incur for these services in the future; • our historical financial information does not reflect the debt or debt servicing cost we incurred in connection with the Pharmacy Transaction and our obligations to obtain certain goods and services after the transaction; and • the historical financial information of KPS does not reflect any increased costs associated with the Pharmacy Transition to, and status as, a stand-alone, publicly traded company, including changes that will occur in our cost structure, personnel needs, financing and operations of the combined business as a result of the Pharmacy Transaction. For these and other reasons, our future financial performance may not be reflective of the performance implied by the historical information we have presented for periods prior to July 31, 2007. The integration of our pharmacy businesses will be time consuming, may distract our management from our operations, and will be expensive, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. If we are unsuccessful in integrating the institutional pharmacy operations of KPS and PharMerica LTC, or if the integration is more difficult than anticipated, we may experience disruptions to our operations. A difficult or unsuccessful integration of these businesses would likely have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Some of the risks that may affect our ability to integrate or realize any anticipated benefits include those associated with: • conforming standards, processes, procedures and controls of the businesses; • difficulties in transferring processes and know-how, including integrating to one information technology platform; • difficulties in the assimilation of acquired operations, technologies or products; • diversion of management’s attention from business concerns; and • adverse effects on employees and business relationships with customers and suppliers. 17 Table of Contents We will need to either contract for or internally develop a number of key services and functions that our parent companies have historically provided to us. We have not previously performed the various corporate functions required of a publicly traded company. Our former parent companies performed many important corporate functions for each of the businesses before the Pharmacy Transaction, including finance, treasury, tax administration, risk management, accounting, internal audit, financial reporting, legal, regulatory, human resources, employee benefit administration, communications, information technology and business development services. After the Pharmacy Transaction, Kindred and AmerisourceBergen are providing a number of services to us under various agreements, such as accounting, treasury, human resources, risk management, tax, employee benefit administration and financial reporting services. In addition, Kindred will provide us with information services and support for approximately five years following the closing of the Pharmacy Transaction, and AmerisourceBergen will sell to us our pharmaceutical requirements and support the distribution of our direct purchases from manufacturers as well as provide other inventory and packaging services. When the agreements covering these services terminate, we will need to replace these services internally or through third parties. We believe the supplies and services obtained from Kindred and AmerisourceBergen are being provided at fair market value, which nonetheless may be higher than the costs borne by PharMerica LTC and KPS in the past and may not be the lowest price the Corporation could otherwise obtain for comparable supplies and services. Also, replacement services may be available only on terms that are less favorable to us or may not be available to us at all. We will also need to replicate certain facilities, systems and infrastructure to which we will no longer have access as well as hire new employees to provide these services. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain these services or hire the necessary employees at similar cost-levels or at all. In addition, our management will have to spend considerable time in building an independent infrastructure for corporate, administrative and information technology functions. These initiatives will be costly to implement and the scope and complexity of these projects may be materially higher than we expect. If we do not have adequate systems and business functions of our own or cannot obtain them from third party providers at an acceptable cost, we may not be able to operate our business effectively, or our internal controls could be impaired, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. We may not realize the benefits we expect by combining the institutional pharmacy businesses of PharMerica LTC and Kindred Pharmacy Services and may experience increased costs after the Pharmacy Transaction which could decrease our overall profitability. Before the Pharmacy Transaction, our business was part of two separate public companies. We may experience difficulties in integrating the two businesses into one company, and the Pharmacy Transaction may result in increased costs and inefficiencies in our business operations and management. Integration of our businesses may cost significantly more or take longer than we anticipate, which could decrease our profitability or otherwise impact our expected cost-savings. In addition, prior to the Pharmacy Transaction our businesses took advantage of the economies of scale of our former parent companies. As a separate, stand-alone, publicly traded company, we may be unable to obtain goods, services and technology at prices or on terms as favorable as those obtained prior to the Pharmacy Transaction, which could decrease our overall profitability. Furthermore, we may not be successful in transitioning from the services and systems provided by our former parent companies and we may incur substantially higher costs for implementation than currently anticipated. At such point in time as we begin to operate these functions independently, if we do not have in place our own adequate systems and business functions, or outsource them to other providers, we may not be able to operate our business effectively or at comparable costs and it may have a material adverse effect on our profitability. If we fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the Pharmacy Transaction, including, without limitation, the anticipated cost-savings resulting from operating synergies and growth opportunities from combining the businesses, it could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. 18 Table of Contents Restrictions on our operations and our obligations to indemnify in connection with the tax-free treatment of the Pharmacy Transaction could materially and adversely affect us. Certain tax-related restrictions and indemnities set forth in the Tax Matters Agreement agreed to by AmerisourceBergen, Kindred and us in order to maintain the tax-free treatment of the Pharmacy Transaction limit our discretion in the operation of our business and could adversely affect us. Under these provisions, we: • have generally undertaken to maintain our current business as an active business for a period of two years following the completion of the mergers; • are generally restricted, for a period of two years following the mergers, from (i) reacquiring our stock, (ii) issuing stock to any person other than as compensation for services, (iii) making changes in our equity structure, (iv) liquidating, merging or consolidating certain of our subsidiaries, (v) transferring certain material assets except in the ordinary course of business, and (vi) entering into negotiations with respect to, or consenting to, certain acquisitions of our stock; • are generally restricted from taking any other action (including an action that would be inconsistent with the representations relied upon by Kindred and AmerisourceBergen described above) that could jeopardize the tax-free status of the spin-offs; and • have generally agreed to indemnify Kindred and AmerisourceBergen for taxes and related losses incurred as a result of the spin-offs failing to qualify as tax-free transactions provided such taxes and related losses are attributable to any act, failure to act or omission by us or our subsidiaries, including our failure to comply with applicable representations, undertakings and restrictions placed on our actions under the tax matters agreement. These prohibitions could discourage, delay or prevent equity financings, acquisitions, investments, strategic alliances, mergers and other transactions possibly resulting in a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, any indemnity obligations to Kindred and AmerisourceBergen could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and liquidity. We have indebtedness, which restricts our ability to pay dividends and has a negative impact on our financing options and liquidity. We have $250 million in indebtednesses outstanding under our senior secured credit facility. We entered into a new senior secured credit facility with certain financial institutions and borrowed $295 million under that facility to, among other things, refinance the outstanding indebtedness that PharMerica LTC and KPS had previously incurred. The credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facility will permit us, subject to specified conditions, to incur a significant amount of additional indebtedness. If we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our leverage, including our ability to service our debt, would increase. Our credit agreement contains customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness, including a debt to EBITDA ratio. The amount of this outstanding indebtedness could limit our ability to pay dividends and to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditure and acquisition purposes. In addition, our financing costs will be higher than they were as part of our former parent companies. A significant portion of our cash flows will be dedicated to debt service and will be unavailable for investment, capital expenditures or other operating expenses. Our ability to make payments on our existing and future debt and to fund working capital needs and planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future, which is largely subject to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory, legislative and other factors that are beyond our control. Cost containment and lower reimbursement levels relative to increases in cost by third party payors, including federal and state governments, could have a significant negative impact on our business and on our cash flows. Our operating margins continue to be under pressure because of continuing regulatory scrutiny and growth in our operating expenses, such as product and labor costs. 19 Table of Contents As a result of these and other factors, we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we do not generate or are unable to borrow sufficient amounts of cash on satisfactory terms to meet these needs, we may need to seek to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, sell assets, curtail discretionary capital expenditures or file for bankruptcy protection. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” We will no longer be able to rely on our former parent companies for diversification of business risk or to provide capital resources. Before the Pharmacy Transaction, we were operated as separate businesses of two different companies. Following the Pharmacy Transaction, we have less financial and other resources than our former parent companies. Our ability to satisfy our obligations and maintain profitability will be solely dependent upon our performance and we will not be able to rely upon the financial and other resources of our former parent companies. We may be required to satisfy certain indemnification obligations to our former parent companies or may not be able to collect on indemnification rights from our former parent companies. Under the terms of the Master Agreement, Kindred and AmerisourceBergen will severally and not jointly indemnify us, and we will indemnify each of Kindred and AmerisourceBergen, for all damages, liabilities and expenses resulting from a breach by the applicable party of the covenants contained in the Master Agreement. Kindred and AmerisourceBergen will severally and not jointly indemnify us for all damages, liabilities and expenses incurred by us relating to the entities, assets and liabilities retained by the applicable parent company, and we will indemnify Kindred and AmerisourceBergen for all damages, liabilities and expenses incurred by each of them relating to our entities, assets and liabilities. Kindred and AmerisourceBergen will severally and not jointly indemnify us against all damages, liabilities and expenses resulting from a breach of their respective representations and warranties in the Master Agreement, provided that each parent company will only be liable to us for breaches of its representations and warranties to the extent our damages from such breaches exceed $30.0 million in the aggregate (and only to the extent that our damages exceed $30.0 million) and each parent company will generally not be liable for damages in excess of $155.0 million. The representations and warranties in the Master Agreement will survive the consummation of the Pharmacy Transaction for a period of 15 months. In addition, Kindred and AmerisourceBergen will severally and not jointly indemnify us, and we will indemnify each of Kindred and AmerisourceBergen, for all damages, liabilities and expenses resulting from a breach by the applicable party of any of the representations, warranties or covenants contained in the tax matters agreement. We will also indemnify each of Kindred and AmerisourceBergen for all damages, liabilities and expenses arising out of any tax imposed with respect to the applicable spin-off if such tax is attributable to any act, any failure to act or any omission by us or any of our subsidiaries. Kindred and AmerisourceBergen will severally and not jointly indemnify us for all damages, liabilities and expenses relating to pre-closing taxes or taxes imposed on us or our subsidiaries because PharMerica LTC or KPS was part of the consolidated return of the applicable parent company, and we will indemnify each of Kindred and AmerisourceBergen for all damages, liabilities and expenses relating to post-closing taxes of us or our subsidiaries. The indemnification obligations described above could be significant and we cannot presently determine the amount, if any, of indemnification obligations for which we will be liable or for which we will seek payment from our former parent companies. Our ability to satisfy these indemnities will depend upon our future financial performance. Similarly, the ability of our former parent companies to satisfy any such obligations to us will 20 Table of Contents depend on their respective future financial performance. We cannot assure you that we will have the ability to satisfy any substantial obligations to our former parent companies or that our former parent companies will have the ability to satisfy any substantial indemnity obligations to us. Certain members of our board of directors are officers and/or directors of our former parent companies. Three of our directors continue to serve in their capacities as officers and directors of our former parent companies. Paul J. Diaz continues to serve as President, Chief Executive Officer and a member of the board of directors of Kindred. Edward L. Kuntz continues to serve as Executive Chairman of the board of directors of Kindred. David Yost continues to serve as Chief Executive Officer and a member of the board of directors of AmerisourceBergen. The service of Mr. Diaz, Mr. Kuntz and Mr. Yost on our board of directors and their continued service as officers and directors of our respective former parent companies, could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest for these officers and directors when faced with decisions that could have implications for either of our former parent companies and us. On the Closing Date, Paul Diaz, David Yost and Edward Kuntz delivered to the Corporation letters announcing their resignation from the Corporation’s Board of Directors effective as of the date of the Corporation’s 2008 annual meeting of stockholders. Messrs. Diaz, Yost and Kuntz submitted their resignations in accordance with the Master Agreement and not because of any disagreement with the Corporation. Risk Factors Relating to Our Business Intense competition may erode our profit margins. The distribution of pharmaceuticals to healthcare facilities is highly competitive. In each geographic market, there are national, regional and local institutional pharmacies and numerous local retail pharmacies, which provide services comparable to those offered by our pharmacies and which may have greater financial and other resources than we do and may be more established in the markets they serve than we are. We also compete against regional and local pharmacies that specialize in long-term care. Many of our competitors have equal or greater resources and access to capital than the Corporation. Because relatively few barriers to entry exist in the local markets we serve, we may encounter substantial competition from local market entrants. Consolidation within the institutional pharmacy industry may also lead to increased competition. Competitive pricing pressures may adversely affect our future operating revenue and profitability. We compete based on innovation and service as well as price. To attract new clients and retain existing clients, we must continually meet service expectations of our clients and customers. We cannot be sure that we will continue to remain competitive with the service to our clients at our current levels of profitability. Our operating revenue and profitability may suffer upon the loss of a significant customer. If we were to lose all or a substantial portion of our customer relationship with either Ceres or Kindred or if we were only able to continue these relationships on less favorable terms this would have a material adverse affect on our operating revenue and results of operations. There can be no assurance that either Ceres or Kindred will not terminate all or a portion of their relationship with the Corporation. If we fail to comply with complex and rapidly evolving laws and regulations, we could suffer penalties, or be required to pay substantial damages or make significant changes to our operations. We are subject to numerous federal and state regulations. If we fail to comply with existing or future applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties, including the loss of our licenses to operate our institutional pharmacies and our ability to participate in federal and state healthcare programs. As a consequence of the severe penalties we could face, we must devote significant operational and managerial resources to complying with these laws and regulations. Although we believe that we are substantially compliant 21 Table of Contents with all existing statutes and regulations applicable to our business, different interpretations and enforcement policies of these laws and regulations could subject our current practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality, or could require us to make significant changes to our operations. In addition, we cannot predict the impact of future legislation and regulatory changes on our business or assure that we will be able to obtain or maintain the regulatory approvals required to operate our business. Legal and regulatory changes reducing reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals and/or medical treatments or services may reduce our profitability. Both our own profit margins and the profit margins of our customers may be adversely affected by laws and regulations reducing reimbursement rates. The sources and amounts of our revenues are determined by a number of factors, including licensed bed capacity and occupancy rates of our customers, the number of drugs administered to patients and the rates of reimbursement among payors. Changes in the number of drugs administered to patients, as well as payor mix among private pay, Medicare and Medicaid, in our customers’ facilities will significantly affect our profitability. Medicare Part D The Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 or MMA included a major expansion of the Medicare program with the addition of a prescription drug benefit under the new Medicare Part D program. Effective January 1, 2006, Medicare beneficiaries became eligible to enroll in prescription drug plans, or PDPs, offered and administered by private entities and became eligible for coverage of outpatient prescription drugs. The continued impact of these regulations depends upon a variety of factors, including our ongoing relationships with the Part D Plans and the patient mix of our customers. Future modifications to the Medicare Part D program may reduce revenue and impose additional costs to the industry. In addition, we cannot assure you that Medicare Part D and the regulations promulgated under Medicare Part D will not have a material adverse effect on our institutional pharmacy business. Risks related to manufacturer rebates Our pharmacies receive rebates from pharmaceutical manufacturers for undertaking certain activities that the manufacturers believe may increase the likelihood that their respective products will be dispensed. The CMS, of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, has questioned whether long-term care pharmacies should be permitted to receive discounts, rebates and other price concessions from pharmaceutical manufacturers with respect to prescriptions covered under the Medicare Part D benefit. In guidance issued to Plan Sponsors, CMS instructed Plan Sponsors to obtain full disclosure from long-term care pharmacies of all discounts, rebates or other remuneration that such pharmacies receive from drug manufacturers and has issued guidelines regarding the information required. CMS has also issued draft reporting requirements for 2008 which would, among other things, require disclosure of non-rebate discounts and price concessions provided to long-term care pharmacies. It is possible that these disclosure requirements and others imposed by CMS could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected if CMS should take any action that has the effect of eliminating or significantly reducing the rebates that we receive from pharmaceutical manufacturers. Changes in Medicaid Reimbursement In addition, effective October 1, 2007, CMS promulgated new rules under the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 or DRA changing the federal upper payment limit for Medicaid reimbursement from 150% of the lowest published price for a drug (which is usually the average wholesale price) to 250% of the lowest average manufacturer price AMP. Although the use of an AMP benchmark would have reduced Medicaid reimbursement rates for certain generic pharmaceuticals, it did not take effect due to a December 19, 2007, federal district court injunction against CMS prohibiting the agency from implementing the rule. The outcome of the AMP litigation 22 Table of Contents is uncertain. We are unable to fully evaluate the potential impact until a final action is ultimately determined. There can be no assurance that changes in reimbursement formula under the DRA or future legislation or regulation will not have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. The settlement by First DataBank, Inc. on pricing benchmark may reduce reimbursement to us. AWP, is a pricing benchmark published by First DataBank, Inc., which provides drug databases, content integration software and drug reference products. AWP is widely used to calculate a portion of the Medicaid and Medicare Part D drug reimbursements payable to pharmacy providers. In 2005, several pension funds brought an action against First DataBank and another healthcare provider alleging collusion to set AWPs for branded drugs. In October 2006, First DataBank agreed to a proposed settlement that would require it to stop publishing AWP two years after the settlement becomes effective unless a competitor is publishing AWP at that time. First DataBank would also be required to change the way it calculates AWP during the two-year interim period. On January 22, 2008, the court refused to approve the proposed settlement. We are unable to fully evaluate the potential impact until a final action is ultimately determined. There can be no assurance that changes in the calculation of AWP will not have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. If we or our customers fail to comply with Medicare and Medicaid regulations, we may be subjected to penalties or loss of eligibility to participate in these programs. The Medicare and Medicaid programs are highly regulated. These programs are also subject to frequent and substantial changes. If we or our customers’ facilities fail to comply with applicable reimbursement laws and regulations, whether purposely or inadvertently, our reimbursement under these programs could be curtailed or reduced and our eligibility to continue to participate in these programs could be adversely affected. Federal or state governments may also impose other penalties on us for failure to comply with the applicable reimbursement regulations. Failure by our customers to comply with these or future laws and regulations could result in our inability to provide pharmacy services to these customers and their residents. We do not believe that we have taken any actions that could subject us to material penalties under these rules and regulations. Among these laws is the federal anti-kickback statute. This statute prohibits anyone from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying any remuneration with the intent to refer, or to arrange for the referral or order of, services or items payable under a federal healthcare program. Courts have interpreted this statute broadly. Violations of the anti-kickback statute may be punished by a criminal fine of up to $25,000 for each violation or imprisonment, civil money penalties of up to $50,000 per violation and damages of up to three times the total amount of the remuneration and/or exclusion from participation in federal health care programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. This law impacts the relationships that we may have with potential referral sources. We have a variety of relationships with potential referral sources, including hospitals and skilled nursing facilities with which we have contracted to provide pharmacy services. Those referral sources would include hospitals and other facilities owned by Kindred. The Office of Inspector General at HHS, or OIG, among other regulatory agencies, is responsible for identifying and eliminating fraud, abuse or waste. The OIG carries out this responsibility through a nationwide program of audits, investigations and inspections. The OIG has promulgated safe harbor regulations that outline practices that are deemed protected from prosecution under the anti-kickback statute. While we endeavor to comply with the applicable safe harbors, certain of our current arrangements may not qualify for safe harbor protection. Failure to meet a safe harbor does not mean that the arrangement necessarily violates the anti-kickback statute, but may subject the arrangement to greater scrutiny. We cannot assure you that practices that are outside of a safe harbor will not be found to violate the anti-kickback statute. The anti-kickback statute and similar state laws and regulations are expansive. We do not always have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws and regulations. In the future, different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality, or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. A determination that we have violated these laws, or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of these laws, could 23 Table of Contents have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects and our business reputation could suffer significantly. If we fail to comply with the anti-kickback statute or other applicable laws and regulations, we could be subjected to liabilities, including criminal penalties, civil penalties (including the loss of our licenses to operate one or more facilities), and exclusion of one or more facilities from participation in the Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state health care programs. In addition, we are unable to predict whether other legislation or regulations at the federal or state level will be adopted, what form such legislation or regulations may take or their impact. Continuing government and private efforts to contain healthcare costs may reduce our future revenue. We could be adversely affected by the continuing efforts of government and private payors to contain healthcare costs. To reduce healthcare costs, payors seek to lower reimbursement rates, limit the scope of covered services and negotiate reduced or capped pricing arrangements. For example, President Bush’s proposed federal fiscal year 2009 budget includes legislative and administrative proposals that proposes savings of approximately $178 billion over five years. In addition, the budget proposal includes a series of proposals impacting Medicaid that would introduce savings for the Medicaid program of approximately $17 billion over five years. While many of the proposed policy changes would require congressional approval to implement, we cannot assure you that reimbursement payments under governmental and private third party payor programs will remain at levels comparable to present levels or will be sufficient to cover the costs allocable to patients eligible for reimbursement under these programs. Any changes that lower reimbursement rates under Medicare, Medicaid or private pay programs could result in a substantial reduction in our net operating revenues. Our operating margins may continue to be under pressure because of deterioration in reimbursement, changes in payor mix and growth in operating expenses in excess of increases, if any, in payments by third party payors. Healthcare reform could adversely affect the liquidity of our customers which would have an adverse effect on their ability to make timely payments to us for our products and services. Healthcare reform and legislation may have an adverse effect on our business through decreasing funds available to our customers. Limitations or restrictions on Medicare and Medicaid payments to our customers could adversely impact the liquidity of our customers, resulting in their inability to pay us, or to timely pay us, for our products and services. This inability could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. The changing U.S. healthcare industry and increasing enforcement environment may negatively impact our business. Our products and services are part of the structure of the healthcare financing and reimbursement system currently existing in the United States. In recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant changes in an effort to reduce costs and government spending. These changes include an increased reliance on managed care, cuts in Medicare funding affecting our healthcare provider customer base and consolidation of competitors, suppliers and customers. In January 2005, CMS issued final regulations on Medicare Part D which became effective on January 1, 2006. Most of the nursing center residents that we serve whose drug costs were previously covered by state Medicaid programs are dual eligible who qualify for the new Medicare drug benefit. Accordingly, since January 1, 2006, Medicaid is no longer a primary payor for the pharmacy services provided to these residents. We expect the healthcare industry to continue to change significantly in the future. Some of these potential changes, such as a reduction in governmental support of healthcare services or adverse changes in legislation or regulations governing prescription drug pricing, healthcare services or mandated benefits, may cause healthcare providers to reduce the amount of our products and services they purchase or the price they are willing to pay for our products and services. If we are unable to adjust to changes in the healthcare environment, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. 24 Table of Contents Further, both federal and state government agencies have increased their focus on and coordination of civil and criminal enforcement efforts in the healthcare area. The OIG and the U.S. Department of Justice have, from time to time, established national enforcement initiatives, targeting all providers of a particular type, that focus on specific billing practices or other suspected areas of abuse. In addition, under the federal False Claims Act, private parties have the right to bring “qui tam” whistleblower lawsuits against companies that submit false claims for payments to the government. A number of states have adopted similar state whistleblower and false claims provisions. We do not believe that we have taken any actions that could subject us to material penalties under these provisions. Further consolidation of managed care organizations and other third-party payors may adversely affect our profits. Managed care organizations and other third-party payors have continued to consolidate in order to enhance their ability to influence the delivery of healthcare services. Consequently, the healthcare needs of a large percentage of the U.S. population are increasingly served by a small number of managed care organizations. These organizations generally enter into service agreements with a limited number of providers for needed services. In addition, private payors, including managed care payors, increasingly are demanding discounted fee structures. To the extent that these organizations terminate us as a preferred provider, engage our competitors as a preferred or exclusive provider or demand discounted fee structures, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Possible changes in or our failure to satisfy our manufacturers’ rebate programs could adversely affect our results of operations. We currently earn rebates from certain manufacturers of pharmaceutical products for meeting tiered market share and purchase volumes. There can be no assurance that pharmaceutical manufacturers will continue to offer these rebates or that we will continue to satisfy the tiered market share and purchase volumes. The termination of such programs or our failure to satisfy the tiered market share and volumes may have an adverse affect on our cost of goods sold and our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. If we or our customers fail to comply with licensure requirements, laws and regulations in respect of healthcare fraud or other applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. Our pharmacies must be licensed by the state board of pharmacy in the state in which they operate. Many states also regulate out-of-state pharmacies that are delivering prescription products to patients or residents in their states. The failure to obtain or renew any required regulatory approvals or licenses could adversely impact the operation of our business. In addition, the healthcare facilities we service are also subject to extensive federal, state and local regulations and are required to be licensed in the states in which they are located. The failure by these healthcare facilities to comply with these or future regulations or to obtain or renew any required licenses could result in our inability to provide pharmacy services to these facilities and their residents and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. While we believe that we are in substantial compliance with all applicable laws, many of the regulations applicable to us, including those relating to marketing incentives offered by pharmaceutical suppliers, and rebates paid by pharmaceutical manufacturers are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts. They may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations. These changes may be material and may require the expenditure of material funds to implement. We believe that the regulatory environment surrounding most segments of the healthcare industry remains intense. Federal and state governments continue to impose intensive enforcement policies resulting in a significant number of inspections, citations of regulatory deficiencies and other regulatory sanctions including demands for refund of overpayments, terminations from the Medicare and Medicaid 25 Table of Contents programs, bans on Medicare and Medicaid payments and fines. If we or our customers fail to comply with the extensive applicable laws and regulations, we could become ineligible to receive government program reimbursement, suffer civil or criminal penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. In addition, we could be forced to expend considerable resources responding to an investigation or other enforcement action under these laws or regulations regardless of whether we have actually been involved in any violations or wrong-doing. Federal and state medical privacy regulations may increase the costs of operations and expose us to civil and criminal sanctions. We must comply with extensive federal and state requirements regarding the transmission and retention of health information. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, referred to as HIPAA, was enacted to ensure that employees can retain and at times transfer their health insurance when they change jobs, to enhance the privacy and security of personal health information and to simplify healthcare administrative processes. The law requires the adoption of standards for the exchange of electronic health information. Based upon current information, we believe we will be able to fully comply with HIPAA requirements, but at this time, we cannot estimate the cost of compliance or if implementation of the HIPAA standards will result in an adverse effect on our operations or profitability or that of our customers. Failure to comply with HIPAA could result in fines and penalties that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Acquisitions, investments and strategic alliances that we have made or may make in the future may use significant resources, may be unsuccessful and could expose us to unforeseen liabilities. We have made, as part of our parent companies, and anticipate that we may continue to make acquisitions of, investments in and strategic alliances with complementary businesses to enable us to capitalize on our position in the geographic markets in which we operate and to expand our businesses in new geographic markets. At any particular time, we may be in various stages of assessment, discussion and negotiation with regard to one or more potential acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances, not all of which, if any, will be consummated. Our growth plans rely, in part, on the successful completion of future acquisitions. If we are unsuccessful, our business would suffer. We intend to make public disclosure of pending and completed acquisitions when appropriate or required by applicable securities laws and regulations. Acquisitions may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, additional operating losses, amortization of certain intangible assets of acquired companies, and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Acquisitions involve numerous risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation: • difficulties integrating acquired operations, personnel and information systems, or in realizing projected efficiencies and cost savings; • diversion of management’s time from existing operations; • potential loss of key employees or customers of acquired companies; • inaccurate assessment of assets and liabilities and exposure to undisclosed or unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, including liabilities for failure to comply with healthcare laws; • increases in our indebtedness and a limitation on our ability to access additional capital when needed; and • failure to operate acquired facilities profitably or to achieve improvements in their financial performance. If we fail to comply with our Corporate Integrity Agreement, we could be subject to severe sanctions, including stipulated monetary penalties and exclusion from federal healthcare programs. We are subject to the terms of a CIA, entered into between the OIG and PharMerica LTC on March 29, 2005. In June 2004, the OIG commenced an administrative action against PharMerica LTC, including its 26 Table of Contents subsidiary PharMerica Drug Systems, Inc., or PDSI. The OIG alleged that PDSI’s December 1997 acquisition of Hollins Manor I, LLC, or Hollins, from HCMF Corporation, or HCMF, violated the anti-kickback provisions of the Social Security Act. The Hollins’ acquisition predated the acquisition of PharMerica LTC in 1999 by AmerisourceBergen’s predecessor. Hollins was an institutional pharmacy that had been established to serve the nursing homes then operated by HCMF. As part of the settlement, in which PharMerica LTC and PDSI expressly denied wrongdoing, PharMerica LTC paid $5.8 million to the HHS and entered into a five-year CIA. In turn, the OIG provided PharMerica LTC and its subsidiaries with a full release for the conduct covered by the administrative action, including an agreement not to pursue their exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid or other federal healthcare programs. Under the CIA, PharMerica LTC agreed to continue its, and the Corporation as of the closing of the Pharmacy Transaction has agreed to maintain a comprehensive compliance program, which includes a corporate compliance officer, a corporate compliance committee, a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, written policies and procedures, educational and training initiatives, review and disciplinary procedures, a confidential disclosure program, an ineligible persons screening program and internal audit and review procedures, all designed to promote compliance with applicable laws, including federal healthcare program requirements, and the promotion of ethical business practices. PharMerica LTC is also subject to extensive reporting requirements under the CIA, including annual reports describing PharMerica LTC’s compliance activities, notices of any government investigations or legal proceedings, overpayments received from federal healthcare programs and changes in pharmacy locations and new business units. The term of the CIA is five years and it ends on March 29, 2010. PharMerica LTC is required to comply fully and timely with all of the CIA requirements. Failure to do so may lead to the imposition of stipulated penalties, including substantial monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. Any such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. If we fail to establish and maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our management will be required to deliver a report in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2008 that assesses the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We also will be required to obtain an attestation report of our independent registered public accounting firm on the operating effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Significant use of resources, both internal and external, will be required to make the requisite evaluation of the annual effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. While we believe we will have adequate internal controls over financial reporting and will meet our obligations, there can be no assurance that we will be able to complete the work necessary for our management to issue our report in a timely manner or that management or our independent registered public accounting firm will conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective. If we fail to have, or management or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to conclude that we maintain, effective internal controls and procedures for financial reporting, we could be unable to provide timely and reliable financial information which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. In addition, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected if we or our independent registered public accounting firm were not able to conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective. Risks generally associated with our sophisticated information systems may adversely affect our operating results. We rely on sophisticated information systems in our business to obtain, rapidly process, analyze, and manage data to facilitate the dispensing of prescription and non-prescription pharmaceuticals in accordance with physician orders and deliver those medications to patients and long-term care residents on a timely basis; to manage the accurate billing and collections for thousands of customers; and to process payments to suppliers. Our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected if these systems are interrupted or damaged or if they fail for an extended period of time. 27 Table of Contents We purchase a significant portion of our pharmaceutical products from one supplier. We are required to purchase 95% of our pharmaceutical products from AmerisourceBergen, one of our former parent companies, pursuant to the Prime Vendor Agreement. If the Prime Vendor Agreement is terminated or AmerisourceBergen fails to deliver products in accordance with the Prime Vendor Agreement, there can be no assurance that our operations would not be disrupted or that we could obtain the products at similar cost or at all. In this event, failure to satisfy our customers’ requirements would result in defaults under these customer contracts subjecting us to damages and the potential termination of those contracts. Such events could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. We primarily obtain our information services from one provider. We obtain substantially all of our information services from Kindred, one of our former parent companies, pursuant to the Information Services Agreement. If the Information Services Agreement is terminated or Kindred fails to deliver services in accordance with the Information Services Agreement, there can be no assurance that our operations would not be disrupted or that we could obtain the necessary information services and support at similar cost or at all. This could result in our failure to satisfy our customers’ requirements or comply with certain of our financial or regulatory reporting requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Prescription volumes may decline, and our net revenues and profitability may be negatively impacted, if products are withdrawn from the market or if increased safety risk profiles of specific drugs result in utilization decreases. We dispense significant volumes of brand-name and generic drugs from our institutional pharmacies. These volumes are the basis for our net revenues and profitability. When increased safety risk profiles of specific drugs or classes of drugs result in utilization decreases, physicians may cease writing or reduce the numbers of prescriptions written for these drugs. Additionally, negative press regarding drugs with higher safety risk profiles may result in reduced consumer demand for such drugs. On occasion, products are withdrawn by their manufacturers. In cases where there are no acceptable prescription drug equivalents or alternatives for these prescription drugs, our volumes, net revenues, profitability and cash flows may decline. We could be required to record a material non-cash charge to income if our recorded intangible assets are impaired, or if we shorten intangible asset useful lives. We have $77.5 million of recorded intangible assets, net, on our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2007. Our intangible assets primarily represent the value of client relationships that was recorded upon our acquisition of PharMerica LTC. Under current accounting rules, intangible assets are amortized over their useful lives. These assets may become impaired with the loss of significant clients or biopharmaceutical manufacturer contracts. If the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the undiscounted pre-tax expected future cash flows from the lowest appropriate asset grouping, we would be required to record a non-cash impairment charge to our statement of income in the amount the carrying value of these assets exceeds the undiscounted expected future cash flows. In addition, while the intangible assets may not be impaired, the useful lives are subject to continual assessment, taking into account historical and expected losses of relationships that were in the base at time of acquisition. This assessment may result in a reduction of the remaining weighted average useful life of these assets, resulting in potentially significant increases to non-cash amortization expense that is charged to our consolidated statement of income. An intangible asset impairment charge, or a reduction of amortization lives, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Failure of key third parties to provide reliable products or services, such as our information services, in a timely manner could cause delays in the delivery of our services, which could damage our reputation, cause us to lose customers and negatively impact our growth. We are dependent on third parties, such as Kindred, which will provide substantially all of our information system services. Kindred is not in the business of providing comprehensive information technology outsourcing 28 Table of Contents services to third parties and does not have any significant prior experience providing comprehensive outsourcing information technology services for any third party. If Kindred or other third parties upon whom we are dependent fail to devote sufficient time and resources to us or if their performance is substandard, our business may be harmed. Any delays, malfunctions, inefficiencies or interruptions in these products or services could adversely affect the reliability or operation of our business, which could cause us to experience difficulty retaining current customers and attracting new customers. In addition, our brand, reputation and growth could be negatively impacted. We are highly dependent on our senior management team and our pharmacy professionals. We are highly dependent upon the members of our senior management and our pharmacists and other pharmacy professionals. Our business is managed by a small number of senior management personnel. If we were unable to retain these persons, we might be materially adversely affected due to the limited pool of senior management personnel with significant experience in our industry. Accordingly, we believe we could experience significant difficulty in replacing key management personnel. We expect that any employment contracts we enter into with our key management personnel will be subject to termination without cause by either party. Moreover, although the majority of the members of our senior management team have significant experience in the pharmaceutical industry, they are all new employees and will need time to fully assess and understand our business and operations. We can offer no assurance how long these members of senior management will choose to remain with us. In addition, our continued success depends on our ability to attract and retain pharmacists and other pharmacy professionals. Competition for qualified pharmacists and other pharmacy professionals is intense. The loss of pharmacy personnel or the inability to attract or retain sufficient numbers of qualified pharmacy professionals could adversely affect our business. Although we generally have been able to meet our staffing requirements for pharmacists and other pharmacy professionals, our inability to do so in the future could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. We are exposed to interest rate changes. We are exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates. As of December 31, 2007, we had outstanding debt of $250 million, all of which was subject to variable rates of interest. We entered into an interest rate swap agreement effective July 31, 2007 with a maturity date of July 31, 2009, to manage our exposure to these fluctuations. Our interest rate swap decreases our variable rate debt as a percentage of our outstanding debt from 100% to 20% as of December 31, 2007. The interest rate swap converts a portion of our indebtedness to a fixed rate with a decreasing notional amount starting at $200.0 million at an annual fixed rate of 5.123%, plus current applicable margin of 1.25%. The notional amount of the swap agreement represents a balance used to calculate the exchange of cash flows and is not an asset or liability. Our credit risk related to this agreement is considered low because the swap agreement is managed by a creditworthy financial institution. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Market Risk.” Different interpretations of accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Generally accepted accounting principles and the requirements of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”) are complex, continually evolving and may be subject to varied interpretation by us, our independent registered public accounting firm and the regulators. Such varied interpretations could result from differing views related to specific facts and circumstances. Differences in interpretation of generally accepted accounting principles and rules of the PCAOB could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 29 Table of Contents Risk Factors Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including, without limitation the following: • as a result of the risk factors listed in this document; • if our business does not fit the investment objectives of the stockholders of our former parent companies, causing them to sell our shares; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • for reasons unrelated to our specific performance, such as reports by industry analysts, investor perceptions, or negative announcements by our customers or competitors regarding their own performance; • regulatory changes that could impact our business; and • general economic and industry conditions. In addition, when the market price of a company’s common stock drops significantly, stockholders often institute securities class action lawsuits against the company. A lawsuit against us could cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of our management and other resources. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and provisions of Delaware law as well as certain provisions of agreements entered into in connection with the Pharmacy Transaction could delay or prevent a change of control that you may favor. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and provisions of Delaware law Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or other change of control that stockholders may consider favorable or may impede the ability of the holders of our common stock to change our management. The provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, among other things: • prohibit stockholder action except at an annual or special meeting. Specifically, this means our stockholders will be unable to act by written consent; • regulate how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at annual meetings of stockholders. Advance notice of such proposals or nominations will be required; • regulate how special meetings of stockholders may be called. Our stockholders will not have the right to call special meetings; • authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock in one or more series, without stockholder approval. Under this authority, our board of directors could adopt a rights plan which could ensure continuity of management by rendering it more difficult for a potential acquiror or to obtain control of us; and • require an affirmative vote of the holders of three-quarters or more of the combined voting power of our common stock entitled to vote in the election of our directors in order for the stockholders to amend our bylaws. In addition, because we have not chosen to be exempt from Section 203 of the DGCL, this provision could also delay or prevent a change of control that may be favorable. Section 203 provides that, subject to limited exceptions, persons that acquire, or are affiliated with a person that acquires, more than 15% of the outstanding voting stock of a Delaware corporation shall not engage in any business combination with that corporation, including by merger, consolidation or acquisitions of additional shares, for a three-year period following the date on which that person or its affiliate becomes the holder of more than 15% of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock. 30 Table of Contents Agreements entered into in connection with the Pharmacy Transaction An acquisition of our stock or further issuance of our stock could cause Kindred and AmerisourceBergen to recognize a taxable gain on the spin-off of PharMerica LTC or KPS, respectively. Under the Tax Matters Agreement we would be required to indemnify our former parent companies for the resulting tax, and this indemnity obligation might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that you may consider favorable. Several of the agreements that we will enter into with our former parent companies at closing will require us to obtain the consent of one or both of our former parent companies prior to assigning our rights and obligations under such agreements. In addition some of the agreements that we will enter at closing, including certain transition services agreements, may be modified upon a change of control of our company. The consent and termination rights set forth in these agreements might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that you may consider favorable. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by our financial results and our debt instruments and we do not anticipate paying any distributions in the foreseeable future. We anticipate that future earnings will be used principally to support operations and finance the growth of our business. Thus, we do not intend to pay dividends or other cash distributions on our common stock in the foreseeable future. See “Dividend Policy”. We entered into a senior secured credit facility providing for both term and revolving credit borrowings. The new senior secured credit facility contains financial covenants that require us to satisfy certain financial tests and maintain certain financial ratios. The new senior secured credit facility limits our ability to declare and pay dividends or other distributions on our shares of common stock. If our lenders permit us to declare dividends, the dividend amounts, if any, will be determined by our board of directors, which will consider a number of factors, including our financial condition, capital requirements, funds generated from operations, future business prospects, applicable contractual restrictions and any other factors our board of directors may deem relevant. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 31 Table of Contents 