Item 1A. Risk Factors As described in Part I (“Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements”), this report contains forward-looking statements regarding us, our business and our industry. The risk factors described below, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be negatively impacted. The global financial crisis may have an impact on our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. The continuing credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system may have an impact on our business and our financial condition. For example, in September 2008, Lehman Brothers, one of the lenders under our $1.65 billion senior secured credit facility, filed for bankruptcy protection. As of December 31, 2008, Lehman Brothers was not able to fund its portion of the unfunded commitments under our revolving credit facility. Therefore, our ability to borrow under this facility has been reduced by $3.2 million as of December 31, 2008 and could be further reduced by up to $8.4 million as of December 31, 2008, which represents Lehman Brothers’ pro rata portion of outstanding borrowings and letters of credit under our revolving credit facility at December 31, 2008. If other lenders become unable to perform their obligations under those facilities, our borrowing capacity could be further reduced. Inability to borrow additional amounts under those facilities could limit our ability to fund our future growth and operations. The credit crisis could also have an impact on our derivative agreements if any of our counterparties are unable to perform their obligations under those agreements. A reduction in demand for oil or natural gas or prices for those commodities, or instability in North American or global energy and credit markets, could adversely affect our business. Our results of operations depend upon the level of activity in the global energy market, including natural gas development, production, processing and transportation. Oil and natural gas prices and the level of drilling and exploration activity can be volatile. For example, oil and natural gas exploration and development activity and the number of well completions typically decline when there is a significant reduction in oil and natural gas prices or significant instability in energy markets. As a result, the demand for our natural gas compression services and oil and natural gas production and processing equipment could be adversely affected. A reduction in demand could also force us to reduce our pricing substantially. Additionally, in North America compression services for our customers’ production from unconventional natural gas sources such as tight sands, shales and coalbeds constitute an increasing percentage of our business. Such unconventional sources are generally less economically feasible to produce in lower natural gas price environments. These factors could in turn negatively impact the demand for our products and services. A decline in demand for oil and natural gas or prices for those commodities, or instability in the global energy and credit markets, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The erosion of the financial condition of our customers could adversely affect our business. Many of our customers finance their exploration and development activities through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. During times when the oil or natural gas markets weaken, our customers are more likely to experience a downturn in their financial condition. Many of our customers’ equity values have substantially declined in recent months, and the capital markets have been unavailable as a source of financing to these customers. The combination of a reduction in cash flow resulting from declines in commodity prices, a reduction in borrowing bases under reserve-based credit facilities and the lack of availability of debt or equity financing will result in a reduction in our customers’ spending for our products and services in 2009. For example, our customers could seek to preserve capital by canceling month-to-month contracts, canceling or delaying scheduled maintenance of their existing natural gas compression and oil and natural gas production and processing equipment or determining not to enter into any new natural gas compression service contracts or purchase new compression and oil and natural gas production and processing 17 Table of Contents equipment, thereby reducing demand for our products and services. Reduced demand for our products and services could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, in the event of the financial failure of a customer, we could experience a loss associated with all or a portion of our outstanding accounts receivable associated with that customer. There are many risks associated with conducting operations in international markets. We operate in many geographic markets outside the U.S., which entails difficulties associated with staffing and managing our international operations and complying with legal and regulatory requirements. Changes in local economic or political conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The risks inherent in our international business activities include the following: • difficulties in managing international operations, including our ability to timely and cost effectively execute projects; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • training and retaining qualified personnel in international markets; • inconsistent product regulation or sudden policy changes by foreign agencies or governments; • the burden of complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • governmental actions that result in the deprivation of contract rights, including possible law changes, and other difficulties in enforcing contractual obligations; • governmental actions that result in restricting the movement of property; • foreign currency exchange rate risks; • difficulty in collecting international accounts receivable; • potentially longer receipt of payment cycles; • changes in political and economic conditions in the countries in which we operate, including general political unrest, the nationalization of energy related assets, civil uprisings, riots, kidnappings and terrorist acts; • the potential risks relating to the retention of sales representatives, consultants and other agents in certain high-risk countries; • potentially adverse tax consequences or tax law changes; • currency controls or restrictions on repatriation of earnings or expropriation of property without fair compensation; • the risk that our international customers may have reduced access to credit because of higher interest rates, reduced bank lending or a deterioration in our customers’ or their lenders’ financial condition; • the geographic, time zone, language and cultural differences among personnel in different areas of the world; and • difficulties in establishing new international offices and risks inherent in establishing new relationships in foreign countries. In addition, we plan to expand our business into international markets where we have not previously conducted business. The risks inherent in establishing new business ventures, especially in international markets where local customs, laws and business procedures present special challenges, may affect our ability to be successful in these ventures or avoid losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 18 Table of Contents There are risks associated with our operations in Nigeria. Local unrest and violence in Nigeria have adversely affected our historical financial results and could result in additional impairments and write-downs of our assets in Nigeria if the political situation in Nigeria does not improve. Our operations in Nigeria are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties associated with operating in Nigeria. These risks include, among other things, political, social and economic instability, civil uprisings, riots, terrorism, kidnapping, the taking of property without fair compensation and governmental actions that may restrict payments or the movement of funds or property or result in the deprivation of contract rights. Any of these risks, including risks arising from the increase in violence and local unrest in Nigeria over the past several years, could adversely impact our operations in Nigeria and could affect the timing and decrease the amount of revenue we may realize from our assets in Nigeria. As a result of ongoing operational difficulties at the Cawthorne Channel Project in Nigeria, and taking into consideration the project’s historical performance and recent declines in commodity prices, we undertook an assessment of our estimated future cash flows from the project. Based on the analysis we completed, we believe that we will not recover all of our remaining investment in the Cawthorne Channel Project. Accordingly, we recorded an impairment charge of $21.6 million in our fourth quarter 2008 results to reduce the carrying amount of our assets associated with the Cawthorne Channel Project to their estimated fair value which is reflected in fleet impairment expense in our consolidated statements of operations. See Note 20 to the Financial Statements for further discussion of this impairment charge. If future events or circumstances further reduce our expectations of future cash flows from these assets, we may have to record additional impairments on our remaining net assets associated with the Cawthorne Channel Project. At December 31, 2008 our net investment in assets in Nigeria was $61.1 million, $15.0 million of which was associated with the Cawthorne Channel Project. There are risks associated with our operations in Venezuela. Further changes to the laws and regulations of Venezuela could adversely impact our results of operations and require us to write-down certain of our assets in Venezuela. We conduct a substantial amount of our business in Venezuela. As of December 31, 2008, we had tangible net assets in Venezuela, including investments in non-consolidated affiliates, of approximately $500.2 million, including receivables of $75.1 million, primarily related to projects for the Venezuelan state-owned oil company. In addition, at December 31, 2008, we also had guaranteed approximately $21.1 million of the debt of a joint venture in Venezuela. The collection of receivables from our Venezuelan customer has historically been slower and more time consuming than our other customers due to their policies and the political unrest in Venezuela. In addition, the economic situation resulting from lower commodity prices may further exacerbate political tension in Venezuela and may lead to the state-owned oil company failing to make payments to service providers. If the Venezuelan state-owned oil company were to fail to make payments to service providers, or attempt to assume control over privately operated businesses in the energy industry, that failure or action could jeopardize the Venezuelan oil industry and thereby unfavorably impact all service providers, including us. In the fourth quarter of 2008, the joint venture in Venezuela in which we have a 35.5% interest sent a notice to its customer, the Venezuelan national oil company, stating that the joint venture may not be able to continue to fund its operations unless the customer were to begin payments of certain disputed amounts in the near future. On February 25, 2009, we received notice that the Venezuelan National Guard has occupied the joint venture’s facilities and has begun a transition of the management of the joint venture’s operations to the Venezuelan national oil company. The ultimate outcome of these actions is unknown at this time, but a nationalization of the joint venture could have an adverse impact on our investment in the joint venture. Recently, laws and regulations in Venezuela have been subject to frequent and significant changes. These changes have included currency controls, restrictions on repatriation of capital, import prohibition of certain consumable commodities required for ongoing operations, expropriation and nationalization of certain firms and industries and changes to the tax laws. While these changes have not had a material impact on us to date, future changes could have a material adverse impact on us. 19 Table of Contents If the government of Venezuela were to institute further changes to the laws and regulations of Venezuela, such as requiring payment on our contracts to be made entirely in Bolivars rather than partly in US dollars, or further restricting currency movements outside of the country or expropriating our assets, those changes could: • increase the expenses incurred by our Venezuelan operations; • result in a reduction in our net income or a write-down of our investments in Venezuela; • cause us to incur a loss on trading securities associated with our operations in Venezuela that we enter into from time to time; and • cause us to experience longer payment cycles in collecting accounts receivable or fail to collect those receivables. We are exposed to exchange rate fluctuations in the international markets in which we operate. A decrease in the value of any of these currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could reduce profits from international operations and the value of our international net assets. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar. Gains and losses from the remeasurement of assets and liabilities that are receivable or payable in currency other than functional currency are included in the consolidated statements of operations. The remeasurement has caused the U.S. dollar value of our international results of operations to vary with exchange rate fluctuations, and the U.S. dollar value of our international results of operations will continue to vary with exchange rate fluctuations. We generally do not hedge exchange rate exposures, which exposes us to the risk of exchange rate losses. A fluctuation in the value of any of these currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could reduce our profits from international operations and the value of the net assets of our international operations when reported in U.S. dollars in our financial statements. This could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations as reported in U.S. dollars. In addition, fluctuations in currencies relative to currencies in which the earnings are generated may make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of our reported results of operations. We anticipate that there will be instances in which costs and revenues will not be exactly matched with respect to currency denomination. As a result, to the extent we expand geographically, we expect that increasing portions of our revenues, costs, assets and liabilities will be subject to fluctuations in foreign currency valuations. We may experience economic loss and a negative impact on earnings or net assets solely as a result of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Further, the markets in which we operate could restrict the removal or conversion of the local or foreign currency, resulting in our inability to hedge against these risks. The currently available supply of compression equipment owned by our customers and competitors could cause a reduction in demand for our products and services and a reduction in our pricing. We believe there currently exists a greater supply of idle and underutilized compression equipment owned by our customers and competitors in North America than in recent years, which will limit our ability to improve our horsepower utilization and increase revenues in the near term. Any sustained reduction in demand for our products and services, or sustained or significant reduction in our pricing for our products or services, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Failure to timely and cost-effectively execute on larger projects could adversely affect our business. As our business has grown, the size and scope of some of our contracts with our customers has increased. This increase in size and scope can translate into more technically challenging conditions or performance specifications for our products and services. Contracts with our customers generally specify delivery dates, performance criteria and penalties for our failure to perform. Any failure to execute such larger projects in a timely and cost effective manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 20 Table of Contents We may incur losses on fixed-price contracts, which constitute a significant portion of our fabrication business. In connection with projects covered by fixed-price contracts, we generally bear the risk of cost over-runs, operating cost inflation, labor availability and productivity, and supplier and subcontractor pricing and performance unless they result from customer-requested change orders. Under both our fixed-price contracts and our cost-reimbursable contracts, we may rely on third parties for many support services, and we could be subject to liability for their failures. Our failure to accurately estimate our costs and the time required for a fixed-price fabrication project could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We have a substantial amount of debt that could limit our ability to fund future growth and operations and increase our exposure to risk during adverse economic conditions. At December 31, 2008, we had approximately $2.5 billion in outstanding debt obligations. Many factors, including factors beyond our control may affect our ability to make payments on our outstanding indebtedness. These factors include those discussed elsewhere in these Risk Factors and those listed in the Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements section of this report. Our substantial debt and associated commitments could have important adverse consequences. For example, these commitments could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our contractual obligations; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our ability to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other corporate requirements; • increase our vulnerability to interest rate fluctuations because the interest payments on a portion of our debt are based upon variable interest rates and a portion can adjust based upon our credit statistics; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; • place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • limit our ability to refinance our debt in the future or borrow additional funds. We may be vulnerable to interest rate increases due to our floating rate debt obligations. As of December 31, 2008, after taking into consideration interest rate swaps, we had approximately $873.3 million of outstanding indebtedness subject to interest at floating rates. Changes in economic conditions outside of our control could result in higher interest rates, thereby increasing our interest expense and reducing the funds available for capital investment, operations or other purposes. Our indebtedness imposes restrictions on us that may affect our ability to successfully operate our business. Our bank credit facilities, asset-backed securitization facility and the agreements governing certain of our indebtedness include covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: • borrow money; • create liens; • make investments; • declare dividends or make certain distributions; • sell or dispose of property; or • merge into or consolidate with any third party or sell or transfer all or substantially all of our property. 21 Table of Contents These facilities and other agreements also require us to maintain various financial ratios. Such covenants may restrict our ability to expand or to pursue our business strategies. Our ability to comply with these and any other provisions of such agreements may be affected by changes in our operating and financial performance, changes in business conditions or results of operations, adverse regulatory developments or other events beyond our control. The breach of any of these covenants could result in a default, which could cause our indebtedness to become due and payable. If any of our indebtedness were to be accelerated, we may not be able to repay or refinance it. A default under one or more of our debt agreements would in some situations trigger cross-default provisions under certain agreements relating to our debt obligations. Many of our compression services contracts with customers have short initial terms, and we cannot be sure that such contracts will be renewed after the end of the initial contractual term. The length of our compression services contracts with customers varies based on operating conditions and customer needs. In most cases, based on currently prevailing compression services rates, our initial contract terms are not long enough to enable us to fully recoup the cost of acquiring or fabricating the equipment we utilize to provide compression services. We cannot be sure that a substantial number of these customers will continue to renew their contracts, that we will be able to enter into new compression services contracts with customers or that any renewals will be at comparable rates. The inability to renew a substantial portion of our compression services contracts would have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are dependent on particular suppliers and are vulnerable to product shortages and price increases. Some of the components used in our products are obtained from a single source or a limited group of suppliers. Our reliance on these suppliers involves several risks, including price increases, inferior component quality and a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components in a timely manner. The partial or complete loss of certain of these sources could have a negative impact on our results of operations and could damage our customer relationships. Further, a significant increase in the price of one or more of these components could have a negative impact on our results of operations. The tax treatment of the Partnership depends on its status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, as well as it not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service treats the Partnership as a corporation or if the Partnership becomes subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, it would substantially reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to the Partnership’s unitholders and undermine the cost of capital advantage we believe the Partnership has. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in the Partnership’s common units depends largely on it being treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The Partnership has not received a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, on this or any other tax matter affecting it. If the Partnership were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, it would pay U.S. federal income tax at the corporate tax rate and would also likely pay state income tax. Treatment of the Partnership as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to its unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of its common units. Current law may change so as to cause the Partnership to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject it to entity-level taxation. In addition, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. The Partnership’s partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects it to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects it to entity-level taxation for U.S. federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution levels of the Partnership may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on it at the option of its general partner without 22 Table of Contents the consent of its unitholders. If the Partnership were to be taxed at the entity level, it would lose the comparative cost of capital advantage we believe it has over time as compared to a corporation. We face significant competition that may cause us to lose market share and harm our financial performance. Our industry is highly competitive and there are low barriers to entry, especially in North America. We expect to experience competition from companies that may be able to adapt more quickly to technological changes within our industry and throughout the economy as a whole, more readily take advantage of acquisitions and other opportunities and adopt more aggressive pricing policies. Our ability to renew or replace existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenue and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of our competitors and customers. If our competitors substantially increase the resources they devote to the development and marketing of competitive services or substantially decrease the price at which they offer their services, we may not be able to compete effectively. Some of these competitors may expand or fabricate new compression units that would create additional competition for the services we currently provide to our customers. In addition, customers that are significant producers or gatherers of natural gas may purchase their own assets in lieu of using our contract operations services. In addition, our other lines of business will face significant competition. We also may not be able to take advantage of certain opportunities or make certain investments because of our significant leverage and our other obligations. All of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Natural gas operations entail inherent risks that may result in substantial liability. We do not insure against all potential losses and could be seriously harmed by unexpected liabilities. Natural gas operations entail inherent risks, including equipment defects, malfunctions and failures and natural disasters, which could result in uncontrollable flows of natural gas or well fluids, fires and explosions. These risks may expose us, as an equipment operator and fabricator, to liability for personal injury, wrongful death, property damage, pollution and other environmental damage. The insurance we carry against many of these risks may not be adequate to cover our claims or losses. We currently have a minimal amount of insurance on our offshore assets. In addition, we are substantially self-insured for worker’s compensation, employer’s liability, property, auto liability, general liability and employee group health claims in view of the relatively high per-incident deductibles we absorb under our insurance arrangements for these risks. Further, insurance covering the risks we expect to face or in the amounts we desire may not be available in the future or, if available, the premiums may not be commercially justifiable. If we were to incur substantial liability and such damages were not covered by insurance or were in excess of policy limits, or if we were to incur liability at a time when we were not able to obtain liability insurance, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted. We are subject to a variety of governmental regulations; failure to comply with these regulations may result in administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures. We are subject to a variety of U.S. federal, state, local and international laws and regulations relating to the environment, health and safety, export controls, currency exchange, labor and employment and taxation. These laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including assessment of monetary penalties, imposition of remedial requirements and issuance of injunctions as to future compliance. From time to time, as part of our operations, including newly acquired operations, we may be subject to compliance audits by regulatory authorities in the various countries in which we operate. Environmental laws and regulations may, in certain circumstances, impose strict liability for environmental contamination, which may render us liable for remediation costs, natural resource damages and other damages as a result of conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred or the conduct of, or conditions caused by, prior 23 Table of Contents owners, operators or other third parties. In addition, where contamination may be present, it is not uncommon for neighboring land owners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury, property damage and recovery of response costs. Remediation costs and other damages arising as a result of environmental laws and regulations, and costs associated with new information, changes in existing environmental laws and regulations or the adoption of new environmental laws and regulations could be substantial and could negatively impact our financial condition or results of operations. We may need to apply for or amend facility permits or licenses from time to time with respect to storm water or wastewater discharges, waste handling, or air emissions relating to manufacturing activities or equipment operations, which subjects us to new or revised permitting conditions that may be onerous or costly to comply with. In addition, certain of our customer service arrangements may require us to operate, on behalf of a specific customer, petroleum storage units such as underground tanks or pipelines and other regulated units, all of which may impose additional compliance and permitting obligations. We conduct operations at numerous facilities in a wide variety of locations across the continental U.S. The operations at many of these facilities require U.S. federal, state or local environmental permits or other authorizations. Additionally, natural gas compressors at many of our customers’ facilities require individual air permits or general authorizations to operate under various air regulatory programs established by rule or regulation. These permits and authorizations frequently contain numerous compliance requirements, including monitoring and reporting obligations and operational restrictions, such as emission limits. Given the large number of facilities in which we operate, and the numerous environmental permits and other authorizations that are applicable to our operations, we may occasionally identify or be notified of technical violations of certain requirements existing in various permits or other authorizations. Occasionally, we have been assessed penalties for our non-compliance, and we could be subject to such penalties in the future. The Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) adopted new rules effective March 18, 2008 that establish more stringent emission standards for new spark ignition natural gas compressor engines. The new rules require increased emission controls on certain new and reconstructed stationary reciprocating engines that were excluded from previous regulation. Those rules or any other new regulations requiring the installation of more sophisticated emission control equipment could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, future events, such as compliance with equivalent or more stringent laws, regulations or permit conditions, a major expansion of our operations into more heavily regulated activities, more vigorous enforcement policies by regulatory agencies, or stricter or different interpretations of existing laws and regulations could require us to make material expenditures. Climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives could result in increased compliance costs. Recent scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as “greenhouse gases” and including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere. In response to such studies, President Obama has expressed support for, and it is anticipated that the U.S. Congress will continue actively to consider, legislation to restrict or further regulate emissions of greenhouse gases. In addition, more than one-third of the states, either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, have begun implementing measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, primarily through the planned development of emission inventories or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. Depending on the particular program, we could be required to purchase and surrender allowances for greenhouse gas emissions resulting from our operations. Also, as a result of the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision on April 2, 2007 in Massachusetts, et al. v. EPA, the EPA may regulate greenhouse gas emissions from mobile sources such as cars and trucks even if Congress does not adopt new legislation specifically addressing emissions of greenhouse gases. The Court’s holding in Massachusetts that greenhouse gases including carbon dioxide fall under the federal CAA’s definition of “air pollutant” may also result in future regulation of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions from stationary sources. In July 2008, the EPA released an “Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking” regarding possible future regulation of greenhouse gas emissions under the CAA, in response to the Supreme Court’s 24 Table of Contents decision in Massachusetts. In the notice, the EPA evaluated the potential regulation of greenhouse gases under the CAA and other potential methods of regulating greenhouse gases. Although the notice did not propose any specific, new regulatory requirements for greenhouse gases, it indicates that federal regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could occur in the near future even if Congress does not adopt new legislation specifically addressing emissions of greenhouse gases. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation that may be enacted or new regulations that may be adopted to address greenhouse gas emissions would impact our business, any such new federal, state or local restrictions on emissions of carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gases that may be imposed in areas in which we conduct business could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, and could have a material adverse effect on our business financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The price of our common stock may experience volatility. The price of our common stock may be volatile. Some of the factors that could affect the price of our common stock are quarterly increases or decreases in revenue or earnings, changes in revenue or earnings estimates by the investment community, and speculation in the press or investment community about our financial condition or results of operations. General market conditions and North America or international economic factors and political events unrelated to our performance may also affect our stock price. For these reasons, investors should not rely on recent trends in the price of our common stock to predict the future price of our common stock or our financial results. We may not be able to consummate additional contributions or sales of portions of our U.S. contract operations business to the Partnership. As part of our business strategy, we intend to contribute or sell the remainder of our U.S. contract operations business to the Partnership, over time, but we are under no obligation to do so. Likewise, the Partnership is under no obligation to purchase any additional portions of that business. The consummation of any future sales of additional portions of that business and the timing of such sales will depend upon, among other things: • our reaching agreement with the Partnership regarding the terms of such sales, which will require the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of the Partnership, which is comprised exclusively of directors who are deemed independent from us; • the Partnership’s ability to finance such purchases on acceptable terms, which could be impacted by general equity and debt market conditions as well as conditions in the markets specific to master limited partnerships; and • the Partnership’s and our compliance with our respective debt agreements. The Partnership intends to fund its future acquisitions from us with external sources of capital, including additional borrowings under its senior secured credit agreement and/or public or private offerings of equity or debt. As a result of the economic slowdown and the declines in both the Partnership’s unit price and the availability of equity and debt capital, the Partnership’s ability to fund future acquisitions of our U.S. contract operations business may be limited. If we are unable to consummate additional contributions or sales of our U.S. contract operations business to the Partnership, we may not be able to capitalize on what we believe is the Partnership’s lower cost of capital over time, which could impact our competitive position in the U.S. Additionally, without the proceeds from future contributions or sales of our U.S. contract operations business to the Partnership, we will have less capital to invest to grow our business. While the timing of additional transfers of our contract operations business to the Partnership will depend on the economic environment, including the availability to the Partnership of debt and equity capital, we believe it is less likely currently than it was a year ago that we will offer portions of the business to the Partnership unless there is an improvement in economic conditions and overall costs of and access to the capital markets. 25 Table of Contents Our charter and bylaws contain provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would result in the purchase of our stockholders’ shares of common stock at a premium to the market price or would otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. There are provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would result in the purchase of our stockholders’ shares of common stock at a premium to the market price or would otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. For example, our restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. If our board of directors elects to issue preferred stock, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In addition, provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, such as limitations on stockholder actions by written consent and on stockholder proposals at meetings of stockholders, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. Delaware corporation law may also discourage takeover attempts that have not been approved by the board of directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 26 Table of Contents 