Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business faces many risks. We believe the risks described below are material risks facing the Company. However, the risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional unknown risks or risks that we currently consider immaterial, may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our shares could decline significantly. Investors should consider the specific risk factors discussed below, together with the cautionary statements under the caption “Forward-Looking Statements” and the other information and documents that we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Risks Relating to Our Proposed Acquisition by Thoratec We and Thoratec may not meet the closing conditions which could result in failure of the acquisition of us by Thoratec. Thoratec’s acquisition of us is conditioned upon various closing conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, which include, among other things, adoption of the Merger Agreement by HeartWare’s stockholders, the absence of legal impediments to consummation of the Merger and the expiration or termination of the required waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976. We and Thoratec cannot predict whether and when these conditions will be satisfied. If for any reason the conditions are not satisfied, Thoratec will not be obligated to complete its acquisition of us. 17 Table of Contents If the proposed acquisition by Thoratec is delayed or is not completed, we may not have sufficient liquidity to continue to operate. At December 31, 2008, we had approximately $20.8 million in cash and cash equivalents. In connection with the Merger Agreement, Thoratec also provided us with a convertible loan facility of up to $28 million to help fund our operations until the anticipated closing of the acquisition, however in certain circumstances, advances outstanding under this loan facility could accelerate and become due and payable in full in accordance with the Loan Agreement. We estimate these funds are sufficient to support our operations for at least the next twelve months. While we operate under the Merger Agreement with Thoratec, we are not permitted to seek additional financing through the sale of equity or debt securities without Thoratec’s consent. If the proposed acquisition by Thoratec is delayed, we may not have sufficient funds to complete the transaction without drawing down the loan facility. If the Merger is ultimately not completed, we will require additional financing to continue to operate. There can be no assurance that such additional financing will be available at that time on commercially acceptable terms if at all. If the proposed acquisition by Thoratec is not completed, we will have incurred substantial costs that may adversely affect our financial results and operations and the market price of our common stock, whether traded in the form of common stock or CDIs. If the proposed acquisition by Thoratec is not completed, the price of our common stock, whether traded in the form of common stock or CDIs, may decline to the extent that the current market price of our common stock reflects a market assumption that the proposed acquisition by Thoratec will be completed. In addition, we have incurred and will incur substantial transaction costs and expenses in connection with the proposed acquisition by Thoratec. These costs are primarily associated with the fees of attorneys, accountants and our financial advisors. In addition, we have diverted significant management resources in an effort to complete the proposed acquisition by Thoratec and are subject to certain restrictions contained in the Merger Agreement on the conduct of our business. If the proposed acquisition by Thoratec is not completed, we will have incurred significant costs, including the diversion of management resources, for which we will have received little or no benefit. Also, if the proposed acquisition by Thoratec is not completed under certain circumstances specified in the Merger Agreement, we may be required to pay to Thoratec termination fees of either $5 million or $11.3 million. In addition, if the proposed acquisition by Thoratec is not completed, we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets and our customers, stockholders, surgeons, suppliers and employees. Each of these factors may also adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and our financial results and operations. The proposed acquisition by Thoratec is subject to the receipt of consents and approvals from government entities that may impose conditions that could have an adverse effect on us and could cause abandonment of the acquisition. Completion of the Merger is conditioned upon, among other things, the expiration or termination of the required waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976. The reviewing authorities may not permit the Merger at all or may impose restrictions or conditions on the Merger that may seriously harm the surviving company if the Merger is completed. Any delay in the completion of the Merger could diminish the anticipated benefits of the Merger or result in additional transaction costs, loss of revenue or other effects associated with uncertainty about the transaction. Provisions of the Merger Agreement may deter alternative business combinations and could negatively impact the stock price of HeartWare if the Merger Agreement is terminated in certain circumstances. The Merger Agreement prohibits us from soliciting, initiating, facilitating or encouraging certain alternative acquisition of us by any third party, subject to exceptions set forth in the Merger Agreement. The Merger Agreement also provides for the payment by us of a termination fee of $11.3 million if the Merger Agreement is terminated in certain circumstances in connection with a competing third-party acquisition proposal. These provisions limit our ability to pursue offers from third parties that could result in greater value to our stockholders. The obligation to pay the termination fee may also discourage a third party from pursuing an alternative acquisition proposal. If the proposed acquisition by Thoratec is terminated and we determine to seek another business combination, we cannot assure you that we will be able to negotiate a transaction with another company on terms comparable to the terms of the Merger, or that we will avoid incurrence of any fees associated with the termination of the Merger Agreement. In the event the Merger Agreement is terminated, our stock price may decline. 18 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Business We have incurred operating losses since our inception and anticipate that we will continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future. We are a development stage company with a limited operating history. We have incurred net losses since our inception, including net losses of $23.8 million and $21.9 million for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. As of December 31, 2008, our deficit accumulated during the development stage was $77.0 million. Currently we only have one product approved for sale in Europe. None of our products are approved for commercial sale in the United States. We continue to incur significant research and development costs and costs related to our operations. We expect to continue to incur significant operating losses for the foreseeable future as we incur costs associated with: • manufacturing product, • continuing to conduct clinical trials, • continuing further product research and development, • seeking regulatory approvals, • expanding our sales and marketing capabilities, • increasing our manufacturing operations, and • complying with the requirements related to being a public company. To become and remain profitable, we must succeed in developing and commercializing products with significant market potential. This will require us to succeed in a range of challenging activities, including all of the activities listed above. We may never succeed in these activities, and we may never obtain regulatory approvals or otherwise generate revenues sufficient to achieve profitability. If we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain it. Our products may never achieve market acceptance. Even if we obtain the necessary regulatory approvals in all jurisdictions to commercialize the HeartWare System or any other product that we may develop, our products may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, health care payers or the medical community. The degree of market acceptance of any of the devices that we may develop will depend on a number of factors, including: • the perceived effectiveness of the product; • the prevalence and severity of any side effects; • potential advantages over alternative treatments or competitive products; • the strength of marketing and distribution support; and • sufficient third party coverage or reimbursement. If the HeartWare System, or any other product that we may develop, does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, patients, health care payers and the medical community, we may not generate product revenue and we may not become profitable or be able to sustain profitability. We have limited sales, marketing and distribution experience. To develop and increase sales, distribution and marketing capabilities, we would have to invest significant amounts of financial and management resources. In developing these sales, marketing and distribution functions ourselves, we could face a number of risks, including: • we may not be able to attract and build a significant, successful or qualified marketing or sales force; • the cost of establishing, training and providing regulatory oversight for a marketing or sales force may be substantial; and • there are significant legal and regulatory risks in medical device marketing and sales, and any failure to comply with all legal and regulatory requirements for sales, marketing and distribution could result in enforcement action by the FDA or other authorities that could jeopardize our ability to market the product or could subject us to substantial liability. 19 Table of Contents We have limited capabilities and manufacturing personnel, and if our manufacturing facilities are unable to provide an adequate supply of products, our growth could be limited and our business could be harmed. We currently manufacture our HeartWare System at our facilities in Miami Lakes, Florida. If there were a disruption to our existing manufacturing facility, for example, due to a hurricane, we would have no other means of manufacturing our HeartWare System until we were able to restore the manufacturing capability at our facility or develop alternative manufacturing facilities. If we were unable to produce sufficient quantities of our HeartWare System for sale outside the US or for use in our current and planned clinical trials, or if our manufacturing process yields substandard product, our development and commercialization efforts would be delayed. We currently have limited resources, facilities and experience to commercially manufacture our products. In order to produce our products in the quantities that we anticipate will be required to meet anticipated market demand, we will need to increase substantially the production process and efficiency over the current level of production. There are technical challenges to increasing manufacturing capacity and efficiency, and developing commercial-scale manufacturing facilities would require the investment of additional funds and hiring and retaining additional management and technical personnel who have the necessary manufacturing experience. We may not successfully complete any required increase in a timely or economically viable manner or at all. If we are unable to do so, we may not be able to produce the HeartWare System in sufficient quantities to meet the requirements for the launch of the product or to meet future demand, if at all. If we are unable to manufacture a sufficient or consistent supply of the HeartWare System, or if we cannot do so efficiently, our revenues, business and financial prospects would be adversely affected. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our financial results. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates can affect the value of our assets, liabilities, costs and revenues. To date, all of our capital raising activities has been undertaken in Australian dollars while most of our expenditures are incurred in US dollars. Our international sales will be denominated in local currencies, not US dollars and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could impact reported revenue and earnings. We try to mitigate our exposure to currency exchange risks by holding some funds in US dollars. We may need substantial additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts. Revenue generated from the HeartWare System will be limited to commercial sales outside of the US and from our clinical trial within the United States. Our cash and cash equivalents on hand and expected cash flows from operations, including expected sales, will not be sufficient to fund our operations for the next twelve months. In connection with its proposed acquisition of us, Thoratec has provided us with a convertible loan facility of up to $28 million to fund ongoing operations until the closing of the transaction, which is expected to occur in the second half of 2009. If the acquisition is not completed, we will need to seek additional funding. Additional funding may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If we raise additional funding through the issuance of equity securities, our shares may suffer dilution. If we are unable to secure additional funding, our product development programs and our commercialization efforts would be delayed or reduced or may cease entirely. In addition, our operating subsidiary, HeartWare, Inc., issued Series A-1 and Series A-2 Preferred Stock to certain creditors of Kriton Medical, Inc., or Kriton, when HeartWare, Inc. purchased substantially all of the assets of Kriton in July 2003. The Series A-1 and Series A-2 Preferred Stock do not have any voting rights or the right to receive dividends but entitle the holders thereof to receive upon certain liquidation events (including deemed liquidation events, which are defined as a merger or consolidation of HeartWare, Inc., the sale of all or substantially all of its assets or the sale of a majority of its voting power) of HeartWare, Inc. an amount equal to $10 per share of Series A-1 and an amount equal to $21 per share of Series A-2, which currently represent an aggregate liquidation preference of $15 million. Such rights to receive a payment if there is a deemed liquidation event of HeartWare, Inc. may restrict our ability to structure our Company and its operations and could inhibit our ability to obtain financings. 20 Table of Contents Our products have not yet been approved for commercial sale within the United States, and our success will depend heavily on the success of our clinical trial program for our lead device, the HeartWare System. If we are unable to complete, or experience significant delays of, our US trial, our ability to obtain regulatory approval to commercialize our products within the United States, the largest medical device market in the world, and our ability to generate revenues will be harmed. In 2008, we completed enrollment for our international clinical trial by implanting our 50th patient with our lead device, the HeartWare System. On January 30, 2009, we received approval for CE Marking and expect to sell the HeartWare System outside of the US in 2009. However, future revenue will be limited if we do not receive regulatory approval to commercially sell our products in the United States. In November 2007, we made a submission to the FDA for an IDE to commence a bridge-to-transplant clinical trial in the United States for our HeartWare System. In 2008, we received full IDE approval and commenced the trial in September 2008. The purpose of the proposed study is to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of the HeartWare System in patients eligible for cardiac transplantation with refractory, advanced heart failure. The proposed primary endpoint is survival for heart transplantation, survival to explant for myocardial recovery, or survival to 180 days on device support, whichever occurs first. As of January 31, 2009, we have completed implants in 7 patients with cumulative support duration of more than 300 days. Completion of our clinical trial program could be delayed or adverse events during the trial could cause us to repeat or terminate the trial. If this were to happen our costs associated with the trial will increase, and it will take us longer to obtain regulatory approvals and commercialize the product or we may never obtain such regulatory approvals. Our clinical trials may also be suspended or terminated at any time by regulatory authorities or by us. Any failure or significant delay in completing clinical trials for our product candidates will harm our financial results and the commercial prospects for our product candidates. The completion of our clinical trial program could be substantially delayed or prevented by several factors, including: • slower than expected rates of patient recruitment and enrollment, including as a result of our competitors undertaking similar clinical trials or having equivalent products that have received approval for sale; • failure of patients to complete the clinical trial; • patients preferring to use approved devices rather than experimental devices such as our HeartWare System; • unforeseen safety issues; • lack of efficacy during clinical trials; • inability or unwillingness of patients or medical investigators to follow our clinical trial protocols; • inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment; • risks associated with trial design, which may result in a failure of the trial to show statistically significant results even if the product is effective; • governmental and regulatory delays or changes in regulatory requirements, policies or guidelines; and • varying interpretation of data by regulatory agencies. 21 Table of Contents The process of obtaining marketing approval or clearance from the FDA for our HeartWare System, or any future products or enhancements or modifications to any products, could: • take a significant period of time; • require the expenditure of substantial resources; • involve rigorous pre-clinical and clinical testing; • require changes to our products; and • result in limitations on the indicated uses of the products. There can be no assurance that we will receive the required approvals from the FDA or, if we do receive the required approvals, that we will receive them on a timely basis or that we will otherwise be able to satisfy the conditions of such approval, if any. The failure to receive product approval clearance by the FDA will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may not meet regulatory quality standards applicable to our manufacturing and quality processes, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Even after products have received marketing approval or clearance, product approvals and clearances by the FDA can be withdrawn due to failure to comply with regulatory standards or the occurrence of problems following initial approval. As a device manufacturer, we are required to demonstrate and maintain compliance with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR. The QSR is a complex regulatory scheme that covers the methods and documentation of the design, testing, control, manufacturing, labeling, quality assurance, packaging, storage and shipping of our products. The FDA enforces the QSR through periodic unannounced site inspections. In addition, the US federal medical device reporting regulations require us to provide information to the FDA whenever there is evidence that reasonably suggests that a device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or, if a malfunction were to occur, could cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements is subject to continual review and is rigorously monitored through periodic inspections by the FDA. Our failure to comply with the QSR or to take satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse QSR inspection could result in enforcement actions, including a public warning letter, a shutdown of or restrictions on our manufacturing operations, delays in approving or clearing a product, refusal to permit the import or export of our products, a recall or seizure of our products, fines, injunctions, civil or criminal penalties, or other sanctions, any of which could cause our business and operating results to suffer. In the European Union, we are required to maintain certain ISO certifications in order to sell our products and must undergo periodic inspections by notified bodies to obtain and maintain these certifications. In October 2008, we received a Certificate of Registration certifying that the Company’s Quality Management System complies with the requirements of ISO 13485:2003. If we fail to continue to comply with ISO regulations the FDA or European Union organizations may withdraw clearance to market, require a product recall or take other enforcement action. Product issues could result in substantial costs and write-downs. Our products are subject to various regulatory guidelines and are perishable. Identified quality problems or failure to sell product before it expires could result in scrapping or expensive rework of product. Quality issues could result in the recall and replacement of entire lots of products, substantial costs and write-offs and harm to our business reputation and financial results. We plan to operate in multiple regulatory environments that require costly and time consuming approvals. Even if we obtain regulatory approvals to commercialize the HeartWare System or any other product that we may develop, sales of our products in other jurisdictions will be subject to regulatory requirements that vary from country to country. The time and cost required to obtain approvals from these countries may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval, and requirements for licensing may differ from those of the FDA. Laws and regulations regarding the manufacture and sale of our products are subject to future changes, as are administrative interpretations and policies of regulatory agencies. If we fail to comply with applicable foreign, federal, state or local market laws or regulations, we could be subject to enforcement actions. Enforcement actions could include product seizures, recalls, withdrawal of clearances or approvals, and civil and criminal penalties, which in each case would harm our business. 22 Table of Contents Our products may never achieve market acceptance even if we obtain regulatory approvals. Even after we obtain regulatory approvals to commercialize the HeartWare System or any other product that we may develop, our products may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, health care payers or the medical community. The degree of market acceptance of any of the devices that we may develop will depend on a number of factors, including: • the perceived effectiveness of the product; • the prevalence and severity of any side effects; • potential advantages over alternative treatments or competitive products; • the strength of marketing and distribution support; and • sufficient third party coverage or reimbursement. If our HeartWare System, or any other product that we may develop, is approved but does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, patients, health care payers and the medical community, we may not generate product revenue and we may not become profitable or be able to sustain profitability. If we fail to obtain an adequate level of reimbursement for our products by third party payers, there may be no commercially viable markets for our product candidates or the markets may be much smaller than expected. The availability and levels of reimbursement by governmental and other third party payers affect the market for our product candidates. The efficacy, safety, performance and cost-effectiveness of our product candidates and of any competing products will determine the availability and level of reimbursement. Reimbursement and health care payment systems vary significantly by country, and include both government sponsored health care and private insurance. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to produce clinical data, which may involve one or more clinical trials, that compares the cost-effectiveness of our products to other available therapies. We may not obtain reimbursement or pricing approvals in a timely manner or at all. Our failure to receive reimbursement or pricing approvals would negatively impact market acceptance of our products in the markets in which those approvals are sought. We believe that future reimbursement may be subject to increased restrictions both in the United States and in international markets. Future legislation, regulation or reimbursement policies of third party payers may adversely affect the demand for our products currently under development and limit our ability to sell our product candidates on a profitable basis. In addition, third party payers continually attempt to contain or reduce the costs of health care by challenging the prices charged for health care products and services. If reimbursement for our products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, market acceptance of our products would be impaired and our future revenues would be adversely affected. 23 Table of Contents If hospitals do not conduct destination therapy procedures using the HeartWare System, market opportunities for our product will be diminished. If hospitals do not conduct destination therapy procedures using our products, our market opportunities will be diminished. The number of destination therapy procedures actually performed depends on many factors, most of which are out of our direct control, including: • the number of sites approved for destination therapy by relevant regulatory agencies; • the clinical outcomes of destination therapy procedures; • cardiology and referring physician education, and their commitment to destination therapy; • the economics of the destination therapy procedure for individual hospitals, which includes the costs of the LVAD and related pre-and post-operative procedures and their reimbursement; and • the economics of hospital’s not conducting a destination therapy procedure, including the costs and related reimbursements of long-term hospitalization. The different outcomes of these and other factors, and their timing, may have a material and adverse effect on our future results. Our manufacturing facilities and the manufacturing facilities of our suppliers must comply with applicable regulatory requirements. If we fail to achieve regulatory approval for these manufacturing facilities, our business and our results of operations would be harmed. Completion of our clinical trials and commercialization of our products require access to, or the development of, manufacturing facilities that meet applicable regulatory standards to manufacture a sufficient supply of our products. In addition, the FDA must approve facilities that manufacture our products for US commercial purposes, as well as the manufacturing processes and specifications for the product with similar, additional, approvals required in order to achieve CE marking in Europe. Suppliers of components of, and products used to manufacture, our products must also comply with FDA and foreign regulatory requirements, which often require significant time, money, resources and record-keeping and quality assurance efforts and subject us and our suppliers to potential regulatory inspections and stoppages. If we or our suppliers fail to comply with the regulatory requirements for our manufacturing operations, our commercialization efforts could be delayed, which would harm our business and our results of operations. We rely on specialized suppliers for certain components and materials. We depend on a number of suppliers to successfully manufacture sufficient quantities of the components we use in our products. We rely on suppliers for critical components including the center post, housing and impeller that are assembled into our primary product, the HeartWare System, as well as finished products that comprise our peripheral and external equipment that is included in the HeartWare System. Lead times for our components are significant and can be up to as long as sixteen weeks and many of our components are manufactured to very tight tolerances. We are in the process of negotiating supply agreements with our key suppliers but have not formalized any supply arrangements, with the exception of the productions service agreement described below. We have second-source suppliers for many, but not all, of our components. If, however, any critical components are not delivered on time or at all or are delivered outside of specifications, for any reason, contractual or otherwise, our business may be seriously harmed financially. Additionally, significant changes to our components may require product redesign and new regulatory clearances, either of which could significantly delay or prevent production or involve substantial cost. We are in the process of negotiating a production services agreement with Minnetronix, Inc., located in Minnesota, as the supplier of the patient monitor and controllers. A prior agreement expired on August 17, 2008. Though we continue to receive production services from Minnetronix, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully negotiate a new agreement. Even if we do reach a new agreement, and although we submit 12-month forecasts to Minnetronix, we cannot assure you that they will be able to have the capacity to accommodate our demand in a timely manner. While we have identified second-source suppliers for other key components, we have not entered into written agreements with these suppliers and we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our manufacturing schedule without undue delay or substantial cost if any of these arrangements is terminated. 24 Table of Contents Additionally, we may experience problems or delays in our own manufacturing process, which may be harmful to our financial status or reputation and therefore make it more difficult or expensive for us to continue with or enter into relationships with specialized suppliers. Our business plan is predicated on entering into and renewing agreements with one or more external parties to manufacture components of our technology. If we are unable to secure or maintain agreements with these manufacturers on favorable terms or at all, then our ability to commercialize our technology and expand our operations will be impaired. We may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain protection in the United States and other countries of the intellectual property relating to or incorporated into our technology and products. As of December 31, 2008, we have 16 issued US patents and 11 issued Australian patents, 3 issued patents in each of Germany, the United Kingdom and France, as well as patents issued in the Netherlands, Japan, Spain, Italy, Korea, Canada, Italy, and Israel. We also have 37 pending US patent applications and a number of international patent applications filed under the Patent Cooperation Treaty, as well as in Japan, Europe, Australia, China, India, Korea and Israel. Our pending and future patent applications may not issue as patents or, if issued, may not issue in a form that will provide us any competitive advantage. Even if issued, existing or future patents may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing similar products or limit the length of terms of patent protection we may have for our products. Changes in patent laws or their interpretation in the United States and other countries could also diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. In addition, the legal systems of certain countries do not favor the aggressive enforcement of patents, and the laws of foreign countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. As a result, our patent portfolio may not provide us with sufficient rights to exclude others from commercializing products similar or identical to ours. In order to preserve and enforce our patent and other intellectual property rights, we may need to make claims or file lawsuits against third parties. This can entail significant costs to us and divert our management’s attention from developing and commercializing our products. Intellectual property litigation could be costly and disruptive to us. From time to time, third parties may assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies used in our business. Any claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel and require us to pay substantial damages. If we are unsuccessful in defending ourselves against these types of claims, we may be required to do one or more of the following: • stop our ongoing or planned clinical trials or delay or abandon commercialization of the product that is the subject of the suit; • attempt to obtain a license to sell or use the relevant technology or substitute technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; or • redesign those products that use the relevant technology. In the event a claim against us was successful and we could not obtain a license to the relevant technology on acceptable terms or license a substitute technology or redesign our products to avoid infringement, our business would be significantly harmed. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology and products could be adversely affected. In addition to patented technology, we rely on our unpatented proprietary technology, trade secrets, processes and know-how. We generally seek to protect this information by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, scientific advisors and third parties. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. To the extent that our employees, consultants or contractors use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. 25 Table of Contents If we are unable to manage our expected growth, we may not be able to commercialize our product candidates. We expect to continue to expand our operations and grow our research and development, product development, regulatory, manufacturing, sales, marketing and administrative operations. This expansion has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our management and operational and financial resources. To manage any further growth and to commercialize our products, we will be required to improve existing and implement new operational and financial systems, procedures and controls and expand, train and manage our growing employee base. In addition, we will need to manage relationships with various manufacturers, suppliers and other organizations, including various regulatory bodies in the United States and other jurisdictions. Our ability to manage our operations and growth will require us to improve our operational, financial and management controls, as well as our internal reporting systems and controls. We may not be able to implement such improvements to our management information and internal control systems in an efficient and timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. Our failure to accomplish any of these tasks could materially harm our business. We compete against companies that have longer operating histories, more established or approved products and greater resources than we do, which may prevent us from achieving further market penetration or improving operating results. Competition in the medical device industry is intense. Our products will compete against products offered by public companies, such as Thoratec and Ventracor Limited, as well as several private companies, such as Jarvik Heart, Inc and Terumo Heart, Inc. Some of these competitors have significantly greater financial and human resources than we do and have established reputations or products, as well as distribution channels and sales and marketing capabilities that are larger and more established than ours. Additional competitors may enter the market, and we are likely to compete with new companies in the future. We also face competition from other medical therapies which may focus on our target market as well as competition from manufacturers of pharmaceutical and other devices that have not yet been developed. Competition from these companies could adversely affect our business. Our ability to compete effectively depends upon our ability to distinguish our company and our products from our competitors and their products. Factors affecting our competitive position include: • product performance and design; • product safety; • sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; • comparable clinical outcomes; • success and timing of new product development and introductions; and • intellectual property protection. The competition for qualified personnel is particularly intense in our industry. If we are unable to retain or hire key personnel, we may not be able to sustain or grow our business. Our ability to operate successfully and manage our potential future growth depends significantly upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled and qualified research, technical, clinical, regulatory, sales, marketing, managerial and financial personnel. We face intense competition for such personnel, and we may not be able to attract, retain and motivate these individuals. We compete for talent with numerous companies, as well as universities and non-profit research organizations. Our future success also depends on the personal efforts and abilities of the principal members of our senior management and scientific staff to provide strategic direction, manage our operations and maintain a cohesive and stable environment. Although we have employment and incentive compensation agreements with all of our executive officers and incentive and compensation plans for our other personnel providing them with various economic incentives to remain employed with us, these incentives may not be sufficient to retain them. We do not maintain key man life insurance on the lives of any of the members of our senior management other than for Mr. LaRose, our Chief Scientific Officer. The loss of key personnel for any reason or our inability to hire, retain and motivate additional qualified personnel in the future could prevent us from sustaining or growing our business. 26 Table of Contents Product liability claims could damage our reputation or adversely affect our business. The design, manufacture and marketing of human medical devices carries an inherent risk of product liability claims. Such liability claims may be expensive to defend and may result in large judgments against us. We maintain clinical trial insurance and limited product liability insurance. We cannot be certain that such insurance will be sufficient to cover all claims that may be made against us. Our insurance policies generally must be renewed on an annual basis. We may not be able to maintain or increase such insurance on acceptable terms or at reasonable costs. A successful claim brought against us in excess, or outside, of our insurance coverage could seriously harm our financial condition and results of operations. Generally, our clinical trials will be conducted in patients with serious life-threatening diseases for whom conventional treatments have been unsuccessful or for whom no conventional treatment exists, and, during the course of treatment, these patients could suffer adverse medical effects or die for reasons that may or may not be related to our medical devices. Any of these events could result in a claim of liability. Such claims against us, regardless of their merit, could result in significant awards against us that could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Investors could lose confidence in our financial reports, and the value of our shares may be adversely affected, if our internal controls over financial reporting are found not to be effective by management or by an independent registered public accounting firm or if we make disclosure of existing or potential significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in those controls. Management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting is discussed in Item 9A in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company’s management, with the participation of the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures, and internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. Based on that evaluation, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures, and internal control over financial reporting are effective as of December 31, 2008. We continue to evaluate our existing internal controls over financial reporting against the standards adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB. During the course of our ongoing evaluation of the internal controls, we may identify areas requiring improvement and will design enhanced processes and controls to address any issues identified through this review. Remediating any deficiencies, significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that have been or could be identified by us or our independent registered public accounting firm may require us to incur significant costs and expend significant time and management resources. We cannot assure you that any of the measures we implement to remedy any such deficiencies will effectively mitigate or remedy such deficiencies. The existence of one or more such deficiencies or weaknesses could affect the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting. Investors could lose confidence in our financial reports, and the value of our shares may be adversely affected if our internal controls over financial reporting are found not to be effective by management or by our independent registered public accounting firm or if we make disclosure of existing or potential significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in those controls. 27 Table of Contents Risk Factors Related to Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The ordinary shares of HeartWare Limited had been traded on the ASX from January 31, 2005 until November 13, 2008 when the shares of common stock of HeartWare International, Inc. started trading on the ASX in the form of CDIs, each representing one thirty-fifth of a share of our common stock. The trading price of the common stock and the CDIs, as applicable, has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile, which means that it could decline substantially within a short period of time. For example, the closing price of our CDIs (and previously ordinary shares of HeartWare Limited) traded on the ASX has ranged from AU$0.35 to AU$0.65 in the 12 months ended December 31, 2008. In addition, our shares of common stock began trading on the NASDAQ on February 24, 2009. Prior to that time, there had been no public market for our common stock in the United States. If an active trading market for our common stock does not develop in the United States, the market price and liquidity of our common stock may be adversely affected. The price of our common shares, whether traded in the form of common stock or CDIs, could fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including the following: • future announcements concerning us or our competitors; • regulatory developments, enforcement actions bearing on advertising, marketing or sales, and disclosure regarding completed, ongoing or future clinical trials; • quarterly variations in operating results, which we have experienced in the past and expect to experience in the future; • introduction of new products or changes in product pricing policies by us or our competitors; • acquisition or loss of significant customers, distributors or suppliers; • business acquisitions or divestitures; • changes in third party reimbursement practices; • fluctuations of investor interest in the medical device sector; • fluctuations in the economy, world political events or general market conditions; and • failure to complete the acquisition of us by Thoratec. In addition, stock markets in general and the market for shares of health care stocks in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in recent years, fluctuations that frequently have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our shares. The market price of our shares could decline below its current price and the market price of our shares may fluctuate significantly in the future. These fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. Your interests may differ or conflict with those of the Company’s largest shareholder. As of December 31, 2008, Apple Tree Partners I, L.P., or Apple Tree, owned approximately 30% of our outstanding shares. As a result, Apple Tree has and will continue to have significant influence over the outcome of any matter, including a change of control, requiring approval of holders of shares. The interests of Apple Tree may differ from or conflict with the interests of other shareholders regarding a potential change of control of us or other matters requiring a vote of shareholders. Apple Tree’s significant influence over us and our subsidiaries may delay or prevent a change in control even if desired by the other holders of shares, which could adversely affect the trading price of the shares. If there are substantial sales of common stock, our share price could decline. If our existing shareholders sell a large number of shares or the public market, should one develop, perceives that existing shareholders might sell a large number of shares, the prices at which our shares may trade could decline significantly. Sales of substantial amounts of shares by shareholders in the public market, or even the potential for such sales, are likely to adversely affect the market price of the shares. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our shares, and we currently do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain any earnings to finance the development and expansion of our products and business. Accordingly, our shareholders will not realize a return on their investment unless the trading price of our shares appreciates. 28 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may discourage a third party from acquiring us, which could limit our stockholders’ opportunities to sell their shares at a premium. Certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws may be considered as having an anti-takeover effect, such as those provisions establishing a classified board of directors, consisting of three classes of directors, and requiring that directors be removed only for cause, authorizing the board of directors to issue from time to time any series of preferred stock and fix the designation, powers, preferences and rights of the shares of such series of preferred stock, prohibiting stockholders from acting by written consent in lieu of a meeting, requiring advance notice of stockholder intention to put forth director nominees or bring up other business at a stockholders’ meeting, and prohibiting stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders. We are also subject to Section 203 of the DGCL, which in general prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder, unless certain conditions specified therein are satisfied. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our stockholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of us in a tender offer or similar transaction. We may be subject to arbitrage risks. Investors may seek to profit by exploiting the difference, if any, in the price of our shares of common stock as reflected by the trading price of our CDIs, each representing one thirty-fifth of a share of our common stock, on the ASX and the trading price of our shares of common stock on Nasdaq. Such arbitrage activities could cause the price of our securities (as adjusted to reflect the fact that each CDI represents one thirty-fifth of a share of common stock) in the market with the higher value to decrease to the price set by the market with the lower value. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 