Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. We believe the risks described below are material risks facing the Company. However, these risks may not be the only risks we face. Additional unknown risks, or risks that we currently consider immaterial, may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our shares could decline significantly. Investors should consider the specific risk factors discussed below, together with the cautionary statements under the caption “Forward-Looking Statements” and the other information and documents that we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have incurred operating losses since our inception and anticipate that we will continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future. We have incurred net losses since our inception, including net losses of $59.3 million, $87.7 million and $55.1 million for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. As of December 31, 2013, our accumulated deficit was $329.4 million. Currently, we only have one product, the HVAD System, approved for sale. We continue to incur substantial clinical trial expenditures, significant research and development costs and costs related to our operations. We expect to continue to incur significant operating losses for the foreseeable future as we incur costs associated with: • conducting multiple clinical trials, including preapproval trials for new products or indications and post approval trials for existing products; • researching and developing next generation products and peripherals as well as incremental improvements to and sustaining engineering for existing products and peripherals; • integrating and developing acquired and licensed technology; • building our service capabilities to meet growing customer demand; • growing, maintaining and protecting our intellectual property; • seeking and maintaining regulatory approvals and operating our quality systems; • expanding our sales and marketing capabilities both globally and in the U.S.; • manufacturing product and increasing our manufacturing capabilities to meet rising demand; • broadening our infrastructure in order to meet the needs of our growing operations; and • complying with the requirements related to being a public company in the United States. To become and remain profitable, we must succeed in developing and commercializing products with significant market potential. This will require us to succeed in a range of challenging activities, including all of the activities listed above. We may never succeed in these activities, and we may never obtain all of the regulatory and reimbursement approvals necessary in the markets in which we expect to operate or otherwise generate revenue sufficient to achieve profitability. Further, the markets in which we operate may contract or we may not obtain significant market share so as to support our ongoing business operations. If we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain it. 20 Table of Contents We have a significant amount of indebtedness consisting primarily of our convertible senior notes. We may not be able to generate enough cash flow from our operations to service or pay principal and interest on our indebtedness, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, we may incur additional indebtedness or refinance our current indebtedness in the future, which could also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The conversion of our convertible senior notes at the election of the holders, to the extent we settle such conversion in cash, could impact our liquidity; to the extent we settle in stock, may dilute our existing stockholders. As of December 31, 2013, our indebtedness under our 3.5% Convertible Senior Notes due December 15, 2017 in the principal amount of $143.75 million totaled $107.1 million, net of discounts. Generally, holders may convert their Convertible Notes at their option only upon satisfaction of one or more of the conditions relating to the sale price of our common stock, the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of Convertible Notes or specified corporate events. Upon conversion, we will pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of our common stock or a combination thereof, at our election. Our ability to make payments on, or to refinance, our Convertible Notes, to incur future indebtedness, and to fund planned capital expenditures, research and development efforts, working capital, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes depends on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, clinical and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or if future borrowings are not available to us in an amount sufficient to pay our indebtedness, including payments of principal upon conversion of the Convertible Notes or on their maturity, or to fund our liquidity needs, we may be forced to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, including the Convertible Notes, on or before their maturity, sell assets, reduce or delay capital expenditures, seek to raise additional capital or take other similar actions. We may not be able to affect any of these actions on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our financial condition at the time, the restrictions in the instruments governing our indebtedness and other factors, including market conditions. In addition, in the event of a default with respect to the Convertible Notes, the holders of the Convertible Notes and/or the trustee under the indenture governing these notes may accelerate the payment of our obligations under these notes, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations, or to refinance or restructure our obligations on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would likely have an adverse effect, which could be material, on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our significant indebtedness combined with our other financial obligations and contractual commitments could have other important consequences. For example, it could: • make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general U.S. and worldwide economic, industry and competitive conditions; • make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in government regulation and reimbursement; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt; and • limit our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or other purposes. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, if we incur additional indebtedness, which we are not prohibited from doing under the terms of the indenture governing the convertible senior notes, the risks related to our business and our ability to service our indebtedness would increase. In the event the conditional conversion feature of the notes is triggered, holders of the Convertible Notes will be entitled to convert the Convertible Notes at any time during specified periods at their option. If one or more holders elect to convert their Convertible Notes, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by 21 Table of Contents delivering solely shares of our common stock (other than cash in lieu of any fractional share), we would be required to settle a portion or all of our conversion obligation through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital. The terms of our convertible senior notes permit us to settle them, upon conversion by the holders thereof, in cash, stock, or a combination thereof. To the extent we use stock for settlement, our existing stockholders may be diluted. We may need substantial additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts. We currently spend more cash than we generate from operating revenue. During 2013, HeartWare generated revenue from commercial sales of the HVAD System internationally and in the U.S. We also generated revenue from use of the HVAD System in clinical trials within the U.S. and through special access programs in other countries. Depending on a range of outcomes, especially our achievement and continuation of regulatory approval of our products and the growth of revenue, we may need to seek additional funding in the future. Additional funding may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If we raise additional funding through the issuance of equity securities, our shares may suffer dilution. If we are unable to secure additional funding, our product development programs and our commercialization efforts would be delayed or reduced or may cease entirely. In November 2012, we received approval to market the HVAD System in the U.S. as a bridge to heart transplantation. Our future success depends heavily on our ability to maintain FDA approval to market our existing product for our initial indication and our ability to obtain FDA approval for any additional indications, and to market our pipeline products in the U.S., the largest medical device market in the world. The process of obtaining and maintaining marketing approval or clearance from the FDA for our existing and future products, or enhancements or modifications to these products, could: • take a significant period of time; • require the expenditure of substantial resources; • involve rigorous pre-clinical and clinical testing; • require changes to our products; • require corrective action, including recalls, with respect to products already distributed; and • result in limitations on the indicated uses of the products. Assuming we are able to file the required FDA regulatory premarket approval applications for additional indications for our HVAD System as well as for the MVAD System and other pipeline products, there can be no assurance that we will receive the required approvals from the FDA or, if we do receive the required approvals, that we will receive them on a timely basis or that we will otherwise be able to satisfy the conditions of approval, if any. The failure to receive product approval by the FDA, or any significant delay in receipt, will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 22 Table of Contents If we are unable to commence or complete successfully our U.S. trials, or if we experience significant delays in the successful commencement or completion of our U.S. trials, our ability to obtain regulatory approval to commercialize our products within the U.S., and our ability to generate revenue, will be materially adversely affected. Delays or inability to successfully complete trials outside of the U.S. can also negatively impact our business in a material way. Regulatory approvals to sell our existing and future products both in and outside of the U.S. typically require clinical trials which can be time consuming and expensive. Significant technical, bench and preclinical testing may be required prior to submitting for regulatory authorization to commence a clinical trial. The cost, timing and outcome of any of these trials or testing may not be favorable or may be insufficient to obtain the required approvals. Completion of any of our clinical trials, including our ongoing destination therapy trials, and initiation of new clinical trials, including our conditionally approved thoracotomy trial, trials for our next generation MVAD System, and trials for the newly acquired SYNERGY System, could be delayed or adverse events during a trial could cause us to amend, repeat or terminate the trial. If this were to happen, our costs associated with the trial will increase, and it will take us longer to obtain regulatory approvals and to commercialize the product, or we may never obtain regulatory approvals. Our clinical trials may also be suspended or terminated at any time by regulatory authorities, the data safety and monitoring board, site investigational review boards, or by us including during the closing stages of enrollment of the trial and the subsequent patient data follow-up period in the event that, for example, there should be an unacceptable level of adverse clinical events such as stroke, bleeding or pump exchanges. Any failure or significant delay in completing clinical trials for our products will materially harm our financial results and the commercial prospects for our products. The completion of any of our clinical trials could be substantially delayed or prevented by several factors, including: • slower than expected rates of patient recruitment and enrollment, including as a result of study inclusion and exclusion criteria; • our competitors undertaking similar clinical trials at the same time as us, or having functionally comparable products that have received approval for sale; • failure of patients to complete the clinical trial; • physicians or patients preferring to use approved devices or other experimental treatments or devices rather than our devices; • prevalence and severity of adverse events and other unforeseen safety issues; • inability or unwillingness of patients or medical investigators to follow our clinical trial protocols; • inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment; • effectiveness of third-party registries for data collection; • risks associated with trial design, which may result in a failure of the trial to show statistically significant results even if the product is effective; • governmental and regulatory delays or changes in regulatory requirements, policies or guidelines; • the availability of governmental or third party reimbursement for investigational devices; • varying interpretation of data by regulatory agencies; and • perceived lack of product efficacy following clinical trials. While the U.S. is the largest medical device market in the world, the risks described above apply to both U.S. clinical trials and regulatory approvals as well as foreign clinical trials and regulatory approvals. If we 23 Table of Contents cannot timely conduct foreign trials in our major target markets (to the extent required in order to market our device in such locations), such as Japan, and receive timely approval in those jurisdictions to market our device for a variety of indications, our business will suffer. We currently rely entirely on sales of our sole product, the HVAD System, to generate revenue. Our existing and future products may not achieve or sustain market acceptance. In addition, any factors that negatively impact sales of this product will adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our sole product is the HVAD System, which we introduced to the European market in January 2009 and which received regulatory approval in the U.S. in late 2012. We expect to continue to derive substantially all of our revenue for several years from the sale of this product and its related devices. Accordingly, our ability to generate revenue is entirely reliant on our ability to market and sell this product. We expect to begin to derive limited revenue from the MVAD System once it enters clinical trials; however, clinical trials of the next generation MVAD System may adversely impact revenue from the current generation HVAD System. Even if we obtain the necessary regulatory approvals in all jurisdictions to commercialize the HVAD System or any other product that we may develop, our products may not gain or sustain market acceptance among physicians, patients, health care payers or the medical community. The degree of market acceptance of any of the devices that we may develop and commercialize will depend on a number of factors, including: • the perceived effectiveness of the product; • the prevalence and severity of any adverse events or side effects especially as it relates to survival, quality of life, stroke, thrombus and bleeding; • potential advantages over alternative treatments or competitive products; • the strength of our marketing and distribution support; • the strength and perceived advantages of our peripherals such as the monitor, controller and batteries; and • sufficient third party coverage or reimbursement. If the HVAD System, or any other product that we may develop, does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, patients, health care payers and the medical community, we may not generate or maintain positive gross margins and we may not become profitable or be able to sustain profitability. If we do achieve market acceptance of our products, we may not be able to sustain it or otherwise achieve it to a degree which would support the ongoing viability of our operations. If we are unable to manage our expected growth, we may not be able to meet market demand, generate expected benefits from the opportunities available to us, satisfy quality regulations or commercialize our products. We expect to continue to expand our operations and grow our research and development, product development, quality, regulatory, manufacturing, sales, marketing and administrative operations. This expansion has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our management, infrastructure, information technology, operational and financial resources. To manage continued growth and to commercialize our products, we will be required to improve existing operational, quality and financial systems, procedures and controls and expand, train and manage our growing employee base. In addition, we will need to manage relationships with various third parties and external entities participating in our research and development efforts, clinical trials, quality systems, manufacturers, suppliers and other organizations, including various regulatory 24 Table of Contents bodies in the U.S. and other jurisdictions. We may not be able to implement needed improvements in an efficient and timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. Our failure to accomplish any of these tasks could materially harm our business and prospects. Our ability to achieve profitability from a current net loss level will depend on our ability to increase gross revenue, manage our expenditures and reduce the per unit cost of producing the HVAD System by increasing our customer orders and manufacturing volume. Currently, gross sales and the gross profit from sales of the HVAD System are not sufficient to cover our operating expenses. To achieve profitability, we need to, among other things, substantially reduce the per unit cost of our products. We believe this can be achieved by decreasing our product assembly costs and increasing our manufacturing volume, which may allow for volume purchase discounts to reduce our raw material and component costs and improve absorption of manufacturing overhead costs. If we are unable to increase sales and simultaneously reduce assembly, raw material, component and manufacturing overhead costs, our ability to achieve profitability will continue to be severely constrained. Any increase in manufacturing volumes must be accompanied by a parallel increase in customer orders. As part of our efforts to prepare for possible increased sales (both globally and in the U.S.), we relocated to a new manufacturing facility in Miami Lakes, Florida in 2013. Additionally, on October 17, 2013, we entered into a long-term lease for a new corporate headquarters in Framingham, Massachusetts consisting of approximately 58,000 square feet. These facility upgrades have increased our operating expenses. Similarly, as our operations have expanded, we have incurred additional costs and added headcount to build our infrastructure, quality systems, product pipeline, sales organization and administrative capabilities. The occurrence of one or more factors that negatively impact sales of our products, operating expenses or our ability to forecast future sales or expenses may prevent us from achieving our desired increase in manufacturing efficiency and spending control, which would prevent us from attaining profitability. We compete against companies that have longer operating histories, more established or approved products and greater resources than we do, which may prevent us from achieving further market penetration or improving operating results. Competition in the medical device industry is intense. Our products will compete against products offered by public companies, such as Thoratec Corporation and Sunshine Heart, Inc., as well as several private companies, such as Jarvik Heart, Inc. and MicroMed Cardiovascular. Some of these competitors have significantly greater financial and human resources than we do, have established reputations or approved products or significantly greater name recognition than we do, and have significantly larger and more established distribution channels and sales and marketing capabilities than we do. For example, Thoratec Corporation has received marketing approval in the U.S. for HeartMate II for both destination and bridge-to-transplant indications, whereas the HVAD System is currently only approved for the bridge-to-transplant indication. We are likely to compete with new companies in the future as additional competitors enter the market. We also face competition from other medical therapies which may focus on our target markets as well as competition from manufacturers of pharmaceutical treatments and other devices that have not yet been developed. Competition from these companies could adversely affect our business. In addition, our European customers are geographically dispersed and, at this stage, a significant portion of our revenue is sourced in Germany among a small number of clinical sites, which also use competitive products. If these sites were to cease using our products or use our products on a reduced or inconsistent basis, such events would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to compete effectively depends upon our ability to distinguish our company and our products from our competitors and their products. Factors affecting our competitive position include: • the availability of other products and procedures, such as heart transplants and pharmaceuticals; • product performance and design; • product safety; 25 Table of Contents • sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; • comparable clinical outcomes; • success and timing of new product development and introductions; • penetration into existing and new geographic markets; and • intellectual property protection. We are still building our sales, marketing and distribution experience. To develop and increase sales, distribution and marketing capabilities, we plan to continue to invest significant amounts of financial and management resources. In developing these sales, marketing and distribution functions ourselves, we will face a number of risks, including: • not being able to attract and retain a significant, successful or qualified marketing or sales force; • incurring substantial costs of establishing, training and providing regulatory oversight for a marketing or sales force; • incurring substantial costs or time delays in connection with receiving approvals to sell and obtain reimbursement for our products in new markets; and • any failure to comply with all legal and regulatory requirements for sales, marketing and distribution, which are significant in the medical device industry, that could result in enforcement actions by the FDA or other authorities that could jeopardize our ability to market our products or could subject us to substantial liability. We have limited manufacturing capabilities and personnel, and if our manufacturing facilities are unable to provide an adequate supply of products, our growth could be limited and our business could be harmed. We currently manufacture our HVAD System at our facilities in Miami Lakes, Florida. If there were a disruption to our manufacturing facilities or the surrounding area, for example, due to a hurricane or climate change, we would have no other means of manufacturing our HVAD System until we were able to restore the manufacturing capability at our facility or develop alternative manufacturing facilities. If we are unable to produce sufficient quantities of our HVAD System for sale or for use in our current and planned clinical trials, or if our manufacturing process yields substandard product, our development and commercialization efforts would be delayed. Further, even if we are able to produce sufficient quantities of our products, we may not be able to attain sufficient profitability on that production or any resultant sales. We currently have limited resources, facilities and experience to commercially manufacture our products. In order to produce our products in the quantities that we anticipate will be required to meet anticipated market demand, we will need to increase the production process and efficiency over the current level of production. There are significant technical and regulatory challenges to increasing manufacturing capacity and efficiency, and continuing to develop commercial-scale manufacturing facilities will require the investment of additional funds and hiring and retaining additional management and technical personnel who have the necessary manufacturing experience. We may not successfully complete any required increase in a timely or economically viable manner, or at all. If we are unable to do so, we may not be able to produce the HVAD System in sufficient quantities to meet future demand. If we are unable to manufacture a sufficient or consistent supply of the HVAD System or any other product we are developing, or if we cannot do so efficiently, our revenue, business and financial prospects would be adversely affected. 26 Table of Contents We manufacture a Class III device implanted in the heart that subjects us to numerous risks. There are risks associated with implanting our device in end stage heart failure patients, including, but not limited to, death, bleeding, stroke, device malfunction and other adverse events; should our customers experience an increase in adverse events they may reduce their usage or purchase of our device; should our patients experience injury due to these events, they or regulatory authorities may pursue legal or administrative action against us. Any of these occurrences could have a materially adverse impact on our operations and financial results and conditions as well as customer confidence in us or our products. Our manufacturing facilities and the manufacturing facilities of our suppliers must comply with applicable regulatory requirements. If we or our suppliers fail to achieve and maintain regulatory approval for these or additional manufacturing facilities, our business and our results of operations would be harmed. Completion of our clinical trials and commercialization of our products require access to, or the development of, manufacturing facilities that meet and maintain applicable U.S. and international regulatory standards to manufacture a sufficient supply of our products. In addition, the FDA must approve facilities that manufacture our products for U.S. commercial purposes, as well as the manufacturing processes and specifications for the product, with similar, additional approvals required in order to achieve and maintain CE marking in Europe or regulatory approvals in other jurisdictions. Suppliers of components and products used to manufacture our products must also comply with FDA and foreign regulatory requirements, which often require significant time, money, resources, record-keeping and quality assurance efforts and subject us and our suppliers to potential regulatory inspections and stoppages. If we or our suppliers fail to comply with the regulatory requirements for our manufacturing operations, our commercialization efforts could be delayed or suspended, which would harm our business and our results of operations. We may not meet regulatory quality standards applicable to our manufacturing and quality processes, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Even after products have received marketing approval or clearance from the FDA or other regulatory bodies, those product approvals and clearances can be withdrawn due to failure to comply with regulatory standards or the occurrence of problems following initial approval whether identified through a required post-approval study or through medical device reporting. As a device manufacturer, we are required to demonstrate and maintain compliance with a variety of regulatory requirements, including the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or “QSR.” The QSR is a complex regulatory scheme that covers the methods and documentation of the design, testing, control, manufacturing, labeling, quality assurance, packaging, storage and shipping of our products, including trend analysis and corrective and preventative actions. In addition, the U.S. federal medical device reporting regulations require us to provide information to the FDA whenever there is evidence that reasonably suggests that a device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or, if a malfunction were to occur, could cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements is subject to continual review and is rigorously monitored through periodic inspections by the FDA. Our failure to comply with the QSR or to take satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse QSR inspection or complaint information could result in enforcement actions, including a public warning letter, a shutdown of or restrictions on our manufacturing operations, delays in approving or clearing a product, refusal to permit the import or export of our products, a recall or seizure of our products, fines, injunctions, civil or criminal penalties, or other sanctions, any of which could cause our business and operating results to materially suffer. In the European Union, we are required to maintain certain ISO certifications in order to sell our products and must undergo periodic inspections by notified bodies to obtain and maintain these certifications. If we fail to continue to comply with ISO regulations, European Union organizations may withdraw clearance to market, require a product recall or take other enforcement action. 27 Table of Contents Product deficiencies could result in field actions, recalls, substantial costs and write-downs; this could also lead to delay or termination of ongoing trials. Our products are subject to various regulatory guidelines, involve complex technologies and are approved for a specified life. Identified quality problems, such as failure of critical components such as batteries or controllers, or the failure of third parties to supply us with sufficient conforming quantities of these products or components, could lead to adverse clinical events that could cause us to amend, repeat or terminate clinical trials, or impact the availability of our product in the marketplace. In addition, product improvements, product redundancies or failure to sell product before it expires could result in scrapping or expensive rework of product and our business, financial or results of operations could suffer. Product complaints, quality issues and necessary corrective and preventative actions could result in communications to customers or patients, field actions, the scrapping, rework, recall or replacement of product, substantial costs and write-offs, and harm to our business reputation and financial results. Further these activities could adversely affect our relationships with our customers or affect our reputation which could materially adversely affect our earnings, results and financial viability. We operate in multiple regulatory environments that require costly and time consuming approvals. Even if we obtain regulatory approvals in specific jurisdictions to commercialize the HVAD System or any other product that we may develop, sales of our products in other jurisdictions will be subject to regulatory requirements that vary from country to country. The time and cost required to obtain approvals from these countries may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval, and requirements for licensing may differ from those of the FDA. Some jurisdictions may even require that we conduct additional trials. Laws and regulations regarding the manufacture and sale of our products are subject to future changes, as are administrative interpretations and policies of regulatory agencies. If we fail to comply with applicable foreign, federal, state or local market laws or regulations, we could be subject to enforcement actions. Enforcement actions could include product seizures, recalls, withdrawal of clearances or approvals, and civil and criminal penalties, which in each case would harm our business. If we fail to obtain and maintain adequate level of reimbursement for our products by third party payers, there may be no commercially viable markets for our products or the markets may be much smaller than expected. Although our customers have generally achieved reimbursement for the purchase of our products to date, the availability and levels of reimbursement by governmental and other third party payers affect the market for our products. Reimbursement and health care payment systems vary significantly by country, and include both government sponsored health care and private insurance. Payers may attempt to limit coverage and the level of reimbursement of new therapeutic products or experimental devices. Government and other third party payers also continually attempt to contain or reduce the costs of health care by challenging prices charged for health care products and services. Often, reimbursement is determined independently of and only following product approval, and may need to be renewed on a regular basis. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to produce clinical and economic data, which may involve one or more clinical trials, that compares the cost-effectiveness of our products to other available therapies. In addition, the efficacy, safety, performance and cost-effectiveness of our products in comparison to any competing products may determine the availability and level of reimbursement for our products. We believe that future reimbursement may be subject to increased restrictions both in the United States and in international markets. Future legislation, regulation or reimbursement policies of third party payers may adversely affect the demand for our existing products as well as products currently under development and limit our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis. We cannot predict how pending or future legislative and regulatory proposals would influence the manner in which medical devices, including ours, are purchased or covered and reimbursed. 28 Table of Contents On October 30, 2013, CMS issued a Decision Memo for Ventricular Assist Devices for Bridge-to-Transplant and Destination Therapy (CAG-00432R), which updated the national coverage determination (“NCD”) for bridge-to-transplant and destination therapy VADs. The updated NCD, among other things, attempts to clarify BTT and DT patient selection criteria. The updated NCD clarified that BTT patients, without an exemption, must be active on the Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network’s waitlist for a heart in order to be eligible for Medicare or Medicaid reimbursement. Since the HVAD System is currently only approved in the U.S. for BTT patients, the update to the NCD creates a subset of potential HeartWare BTT patients who may no longer be eligible for Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement. Therefore, the update may adversely affect our revenue, earnings, business or results of operation. If reimbursement for our products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, market acceptance of our products would be impaired and our future revenue would be materially adversely affected. Often reimbursement is not available for products used in clinical trials as the relevant insurance providers may refuse to provide reimbursement for trial products on the basis that the products are “experimental” or “investigational” and do not have the requisite regulatory approvals. As we develop next generation products, this requirement may materially adversely affect our revenue, earnings, business and stock price. Destination therapy procedures represent an increasing share of ventricular assist device implants. Although we are currently conducting destination therapy trials, we may be unable to submit for approval of a destination therapy indication for several years. Hospitals must meet specific regulatory or reimbursement requirements in order to perform destination therapy procedures. These requirements and national coverage determinations may change from time to time. We are currently conducting clinical trials to study the use of the HVAD System for destination therapy. If reimbursement is reduced or unavailable for clinical trial cases, or physicians decline to use our products for destination therapy in the future, our market opportunities will be diminished and our business and stock price may be adversely impacted. The number of destination therapy procedures actually performed depends on many factors, most of which are out of our direct control, including: • the number of sites approved for destination therapy by relevant regulatory agencies; • the clinical outcomes of destination therapy procedures; • implanting surgeons’ and referring cardiologists’ commitment to destination therapy; • the economics of ventricular assist devices for destination therapy at individual hospitals, which includes the costs of the VAD and related pre- and post-operative procedures and treatment and their reimbursement; and • the economics of hospitals not conducting a destination therapy procedure, including the costs and related reimbursements of long-term hospitalization of advance heart failure patients and alternative therapies. The different outcomes of these and other factors, and their timing, may have a material and adverse effect on our future results. In addition, our primary competitor has received a destination therapy indication for its product. If physicians grow accustomed to that device for destination therapy and become unwilling to use our device for this indication, our ability to participate in and benefit from this opportunity may suffer. The long and variable sales and deployment cycles for our ventricular assist device, or VAD, systems may cause our product sales and operating results to vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter. Our VAD systems have lengthy sales cycles and we may incur substantial sales and marketing expenses and expend significant effort without making a sale. Even after making the decision to purchase our VAD systems, 29 Table of Contents our customers often deploy our products slowly, and this time period may be extended if our products are acquired on a consignment basis, as is the case for many of our customers. In addition, cardiac centers that buy the majority of our products are usually led by cardiac surgeons who are heavily recruited by competing centers or by centers looking to increase their profiles. When one of these surgeons moves to a new center we sometimes experience a temporary but significant reduction in purchases by the departed center while it replaces its lead surgeon. As a result, it is difficult for us to predict the quarter in which customers may purchase our VAD systems and our product sales and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. In addition, product purchases often lag initial expressions of interest in our product by new centers as training of the VAD team and internal hospital administrative procedures are typically required prior to the initial implant procedures. Adverse changes in general economic conditions in the United States and overseas could adversely affect us. We are subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in general economic market conditions. Many global economies remain sluggish as they recover from a severe recession and unprecedented turmoil. The U.S. and other developed economies continue to suffer from market volatility, difficulties in the financial services sector, tight credit markets, softness in the housing markets, concerns of inflation, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, significant job losses or slower than expected job creation, reduced consumer spending, and continuing economic uncertainties. The turmoil and the uncertainty about future economic conditions could negatively impact our current and prospective customers, adversely affect the financial ability of governments and health insurers to pay claims, adversely impact our expenses and ability to obtain financing of our operations, cause delays or other problems with key suppliers and increase the risk of counterparty failures. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of the lingering effects of the severe global economic downturn or the timing or strength of the subsequent recovery. Healthcare spending in the United States and foreign jurisdictions has been, and is expected to continue to be, negatively affected by these economic trends. Since the sale of the HVAD System to a new patient is generally dependent on the availability of third-party reimbursement and normally requires the patient to make a significant co-payment, the impacts of the effects of the recession on our potential customers may reduce the referrals generated and thereby reduce our customer orders. Similarly, the impacts of the challenging economy on our existing customers may cause some of them to cease purchasing HVAD Systems and this will reduce our revenue, which in turn will make it more difficult to achieve the per unit cost-savings which are expected to be attained through increases in our manufacturing volume. The severe recession has impacted the financial stability of many public and private health insurers. As a result, insurers are scrutinizing claims more rigorously and delaying or denying reimbursement more often. Although VAD procedures occur in relatively limited numbers, the per procedure reimbursement levels may draw the attention of third-party payers. Since the sale of the HVAD System is generally dependent on the availability of third-party reimbursement, any delay or decline in reimbursement will adversely affect our revenue. Global market and economic conditions may exacerbate certain risks affecting our business. International markets, especially Europe, represent a major part of our present business. Approximately 49% of our 2013 revenues were derived from international sales and much of our marketing efforts are focused on European countries. Although not materially impacted to date, our accounts receivable in certain European countries may be subject to significant payment delays due to government funding and reimbursement practices or limited financial flexibility of our distributors. European governments have announced or implemented austerity measures to constrain the overall level of government expenditures, which may include reforming health care coverage and reducing health care costs. These measures will continue to exert pressure on our customers and may impact their ability to pay for product on a timely basis or to maintain their current purchasing patterns. These adverse market and economic conditions could reduce our product sales and revenue, result in additional allowances, or reduce credit sales to our distribution network. In addition, some European and other payers require health technology assessments or economic cost-benefit analyses to be conducted by a 30 Table of Contents manufacturer or third party analysis group in order to obtain or maintain reimbursement of medical devices. These analyses can be expensive and time consuming, and may not produce outcomes favorable to us. Adverse or delayed outcomes will adversely affect our revenue. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our financial results. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates can affect the value of our assets, liabilities, costs and revenue. In 2013, approximately 45% of our revenue was sourced from international sales denominated in foreign currencies, mainly in Europe and principally in Euros, while most of our expenditures are incurred in U.S. dollars. With limited exceptions, our international sales will be denominated in Euros or in local currencies, not U.S. dollars, and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, especially an appreciation of the U.S. dollar against major international currencies, will materially impact our revenue and earnings. Due to the size and stage of development of our operations and revenue, we do not presently mitigate our exposure to exchange risk to a significant extent other than by holding the majority of our funds in U.S. dollars or U.S. dollar denominated investments. Healthcare policy changes, including the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, may have a material adverse effect on us. In response to perceived increases in health care costs in recent years, there have been and continue to be proposals by the federal government, state governments, regulators and third-party payors to control these costs and, more generally, to reform the U.S. healthcare system. Certain of these proposals could limit the prices we are able to charge for our products or the amounts of reimbursement available for our products and could limit the acceptance and availability of our products. Moreover, as discussed in the paragraph below, the Affordable Care Act imposes significant new taxes on medical device makers such as us. The Affordable Care Act and other proposals could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. On March 23, 2010, the Affordable Care Act was signed into law by President Obama. On March 30, 2010, a companion bill, the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (the “Reconciliation Act”) was also signed into law by President Obama. Among other things, the Affordable Care Act and the Reconciliation Act (collectively, the “Acts”), when taken together, impose a 2.3% excise tax on the sale of certain medical devices. In addition, it is possible that standard setters or regulators may address certain unique aspects of the accounting for the Acts in the future. In light of the inherent uncertainty of how and when these Acts and other companion legislation, if any, will be implemented and applied, we are unable to fully predict the actual impact on our financial statements. Other elements of this legislation such as comparative effectiveness research, an independent payment advisory board, transparency requirements, payment system reforms including shared savings pilots and other provisions could meaningfully change the way healthcare is developed and delivered, and may materially impact numerous aspects of our business. We are subject to federal and state laws prohibiting “kickbacks” and false or fraudulent claims, which, if violated, could subject us to substantial penalties. Foreign jurisdictions in which we operate may have similar laws. Other laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”) and the U.K. Bribery Act prohibit improper payments to government officials to induce the purchase of products or similar actions. Any challenge to or investigation into our practices under these laws are costly to defend, might result in fines and penalties and could cause adverse publicity, thus causing harm to our business and operations. In addition, we can be held liable for our distributors’ failure to comply with these laws. A federal law commonly known as the Medicare/Medicaid anti-kickback law, and several similar state and foreign laws, prohibit payments that are intended to induce physicians or others either to refer patients or to acquire or arrange for or recommend the acquisition of healthcare products or services. These laws constrain our sales, marketing and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements, including sales 31 Table of Contents programs, we may have with hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers of medical devices. Other federal and state laws generally prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, or for items or services that were not provided as claimed. Because we may provide some coding and billing information to purchasers of the HVAD System and our other products, and because we cannot assure that the government will regard any billing errors that may be made as inadvertent, these laws are potentially applicable to us. In addition, these laws are potentially applicable to us because we provide reimbursement to healthcare professionals for training on the use of the HVAD System and our other products. Anti-kickback and false claims laws prescribe civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance, which can be substantial. The FCPA and the United Kingdom’s Bribery Act prohibit improper payments to government officials to induce inappropriate behavior. In many jurisdictions, hospitals are owned or operated by governmental authorities, and physicians and administrators who are employed by the hospital may be considered to be a government official. As a result, certain relationships with our customers could expose us to liability under these statutes. Corrupt practices and anti-bribery laws prescribe civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance, which can be substantial. Even an unsuccessful challenge or investigation into our practices is costly to defend, and could cause adverse publicity, and thus could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, under certain circumstances, we may be liable for the actions of our distributors to the extent they do not comply with these laws. If we are found to have violated laws protecting the confidentiality of patient health information, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, which could increase our liabilities and harm our reputation or our business. There are a number of federal and state and foreign laws protecting the confidentiality of certain patient health information, including patient records, and restricting the use and disclosure of that protected information. In particular, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services promulgated patient privacy rules under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA. These privacy rules protect medical records and other personal health information by limiting their use and disclosure, giving individuals the right to access, amend and seek accounting of their own health information and limiting most use and disclosures of health information to the minimum amount reasonably necessary to accomplish the intended purpose. If we are found to be in violation of the privacy rules under HIPAA or similar laws (to the extent applicable to us), we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, which could increase our liabilities, harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. European privacy laws are generally more stringent than similar laws in the U.S. Since a significant amount of our revenue arises in Europe, we may be at risk should we fail to comply with local requirements even if we have complied with U.S. regulations. We rely on specialized suppliers for certain components and materials, and we do not have second-source suppliers for all of our components. We depend on a number of suppliers to successfully manufacture sufficient quantities of the components we use in our products, both our existing commercial products and our products in development. We rely on suppliers for various critical components including the center post, housing and impeller that are assembled into our primary product, the HVAD System, as well as finished products that comprise our peripheral and external equipment included in the HVAD System. Lead times for our components are significant and can be up to as long as sixteen weeks and many of our components are manufactured to very tight tolerances and specifications. We do not presently have supply agreements with the vast majority of our key suppliers but have extensive purchase orders in place with these vendors. 32 Table of Contents We have second-source suppliers for some, but not all, of our components. In particular, we do not have second-source suppliers for our controllers, battery chargers and monitors. Our reliance on third-party suppliers also subjects us to other risks that could harm our business, including: • we do not believe that we are a major customer of many of our suppliers, in terms of the volume of components and materials that we purchase, and these suppliers may therefore give other customers’ needs higher priority than ours or discontinue or modify components based on demand from other customers; • we may not be able to obtain adequate supply in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms; • some of our components are extraordinarily complex and must be manufactured to extremely tight tolerances and specifications with the result that our suppliers, especially new suppliers, may make errors in manufacturing that could negatively affect the efficacy or safety of our products or cause our components not to be delivered on time or at all or to be delivered outside of our specifications; • the availability of second-source suppliers may be extremely limited or their implementation as a supplier may be lengthy due to the tight tolerances and specifications in which we typically operate; • switching components or changes to our components, specifications or designs may require product redesign and submission to the FDA or a PMA supplement, which can lead to production interruptions; • our suppliers manufacture products for a range of customers, and fluctuations in demand for the products these suppliers manufacture for others may affect their ability to deliver products to us in a timely manner; and • our suppliers may encounter financial hardships unrelated to our demand, which could inhibit their ability to fulfill our orders and meet our requirements. Any interruption or delay in obtaining products from our third-party suppliers, or our inability to obtain products from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers and cause them to cancel orders or switch to competing products. While we have identified second-source suppliers for other key components, we have not entered into written agreements with these suppliers and we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our manufacturing schedule without undue delay or substantial cost if any of these arrangements is terminated. Additionally, we may experience problems or delays in our own manufacturing and assembly processes, which may be harmful to our financial status or reputation and, therefore, make it more difficult or expensive for us to continue with or enter into relationships with specialized suppliers. Our business plan is predicated on maintaining strong relationships and favorable supply arrangements with a series of external parties to manufacture components of our HVAD System. If we are unsuccessful in this regard or are unable to secure or maintain agreements with these manufacturers on favorable terms or at all, then our ability to commercialize our technology and expand our operations will be dramatically impaired. We use external consultants and engineers to help us develop new products and peripherals as well as components for our current products and peripherals. Many of these external projects anticipate innovation or technology development which does not currently exist and are funded on a time and materials basis. As a result, the ability of third party contractors to develop the necessary technology in accordance with established budgets and timelines is uncertain. Failure to timely execute a development program could result in the delay or abandonment of a new product or component or increase the cost of the activity. These outcomes could adversely impact our business, prospects and financial condition. We may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain protection in the United States and other countries of the intellectual property relating to or incorporated into our technology and products. Our patent 33 Table of Contents portfolio consists of internally developed technology as well as patents and patent applications which we acquired in 2003 in connection with our purchase in bankruptcy of substantially all the assets of Kriton Medical, Inc. and which pertain to technology used in the HVAD System. In addition, from time to time, we also acquire or license technology from third parties. As a result, we may have less complete knowledge and records with respect to the development and ownership of the Kriton and third party technology, patents and intellectual property than we would otherwise have for technology, patents and intellectual property developed internally by us. Our pending and future patent applications may not issue as patents or, if issued, may not issue in a form that will provide us with any meaningful protection or any competitive advantage. Even if issued, existing or future patents may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from developing and marketing similar products or limit the length of terms of patent protection we may have for our products. Further, other companies may design around technologies we have patented, licensed or developed. Moreover, changes in patent laws or their interpretation in the United States and other countries could also diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. In addition, the legal systems of certain countries do not favor the aggressive enforcement of patents, and the laws of foreign countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. As a result, our patent portfolio may not provide us with sufficient rights to exclude others from commercializing products similar or identical to ours. In September 2011, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the America Invents Act, was signed into law, and included a number of significant changes to United States patent law, in part, to more closely align patent law in the U.S. with similar laws around the world. The America Invents Act transitions patent priority from a “first-to-invent” system to a “first-to-file” system and modifies the way issued patents are challenged. Lack of precedential interpretation of the new provisions of the America Invents Act in specific cases by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and the courts increases the uncertainty surrounding the effect of these changes. Accordingly, the America Invents Act and its implementation could increase the unpredictability and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents and may alter the relative priority of our inventions requiring us to act more quickly to seek intellectual property protection, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We may need to initiate lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, which could be expensive and, if we lose, could cause us to lose some of our intellectual property rights, which would harm our ability to compete in the market. We rely on patents to protect a portion of our intellectual property and our competitive position. Patent law relating to the scope of claims in the technology fields in which we operate is still evolving and, consequently, patent positions in the medical device industry are generally uncertain. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate patent litigation against third parties, such as infringement suits or interference proceedings. Litigation may be necessary to: • assert claims of infringement; • enforce our patents; • protect our trade secrets or know-how; or • determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Any lawsuits that we initiate could be expensive, take significant time and divert management’s attention from other business concerns. Litigation also puts our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and puts our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Additionally, we may provoke third parties to assert claims against us. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially valuable. The occurrence of any of these events may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 34 Table of Contents Claims that our current or future products infringe or misappropriate the proprietary rights of others could adversely affect our ability to sell those products and cause us to incur additional costs. Substantial litigation over intellectual property rights exists in the medical device industry. We expect that we could be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as our revenue increases, the number of technology holders grows and the functionality of products and technology in different industry segments overlaps. Third parties may currently have, or may eventually be issued, patents on which our current or future products or technologies may allegedly infringe. For example, we are aware of certain patents and patent applications owned by third parties that cover different aspects of mechanical circulatory support, methodologies for the pumping of blood and other fluids and the related devices and technologies. Any of these third parties might assert a claim of infringement against us. There can be no certainty that litigation will not arise in relation to third party intellectual property or, if it does arise, whether or not it will be determined in a manner which is favorable to us. Any litigation, regardless of its outcome, would likely result in the expenditure of significant financial resources and the diversion of management’s time and resources. In addition, litigation in which we are accused of infringement may cause negative publicity, adversely impact prospective customers, cause product shipment delays, prohibit us from manufacturing, marketing or selling our current or future products, require us to develop non-infringing technology, make substantial payments to third parties or enter into royalty or license agreements, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. If a successful claim of infringement were made against us and we could not develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology on a timely and cost-effective basis, our revenue may decrease substantially and we could be exposed to significant liability. A court could enter orders that temporarily, preliminarily or permanently enjoin us or our customers from making, using, selling, offering to sell or importing our current or future products, or could enter an order mandating that we undertake certain remedial activities. Claims that we have misappropriated the confidential information or trade secrets of third parties can have a similar negative impact on our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology and products could be adversely affected. In addition to patented technology, we rely on a combination of non-patented proprietary technology, trade secrets, processes and procedures, technical knowledge and know-how accumulated or acquired since inception. Despite these measures, any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or misappropriated. We generally seek to protect this information by confidentiality, non-disclosure and assignment of invention agreements with our employees, consultants, scientific advisors and third parties. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, our trade secrets may be disclosed to or otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. To the extent that our employees, consultants or contractors use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. If our intellectual property is disclosed or misappropriated, it would harm our ability to protect our rights and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to claims that we or our employees have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed alleged trade secrets or other proprietary information of former employers of our employees. We employ individuals who were previously employed at other medical device companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. To the extent that our employees are involved in research areas that are similar to those in which they were involved with their former employers, we may be subject to claims that such employees have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed the alleged trade secrets or other proprietary information of the former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against such claims. 35 Table of Contents If we fail to successfully introduce next generation products and improvements to our existing product, our future growth may suffer. As part of our strategy, we intend to develop and introduce a number of next generation products and make enhancements to our existing product. We also intend to develop new indications for our existing products. If we are slow in bringing new products to market or otherwise fail to successfully develop, manufacture, design clinical trials for, introduce or commercialize any of these new products, product improvements or new indications on a timely basis, or if they are not well accepted by the market, our future growth may suffer. For example, we are developing a next generation pump based on our MVAD System technology, designing a new and improved controller and initiating a clinical trial for a thoracotomy placement, among others. If we are not successful in these efforts, among others, our future business opportunities and growth potential will suffer. Business development activities are inherently risky, and integrating our operations with businesses we may acquire may be difficult and, if unsuccessfully executed, may have a material adverse effect on our business. We may, selectively, from time to time engage in business development activities, such as strategic acquisitions like our acquisition of CircuLite, Inc. on December 1, 2013, investments and alliances in order to complement or expand our current business or enter into a new product area. These transactions can involve significant challenges and risks, including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy or fails to produce a satisfactory return on our investment. While our evaluation of any potential acquisition or investment includes business, legal and financial due diligence with the goal of identifying and evaluating the material risks involved, we may be unsuccessful in ascertaining or evaluating all risks. These plans are also subject to the availability of appropriate opportunities and competition from other companies seeking similar opportunities. Moreover, the success of any strategic effort may be affected by a number of factors, including our ability to properly assess and value the potential business opportunity, and to integrate it into our business. Each acquisition involves the integration of a separate company that was previously operated independently and has different systems, processes, policies and cultures. The process of combining companies may be disruptive to our businesses and may cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, both of the businesses as a result of the following difficulties, among others: • loss of key customers or employees; • difficulty in standardizing information and other systems; • difficulty in integrating operations, including consolidating facilities and infrastructure; • diversion of management’s attention from the day-to-day business of our Company as a result of the need to deal with the foregoing or other disruptions and difficulties; • loss of key customers or employees; • risks associated with acquiring intellectual property; • risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; • dilutive issuances of equity securities, which may be sold at a discount to market price; • the use of significant amounts of cash; • the assumption of significant liabilities; • increased operating costs or reduced earnings; • failure to realize potential operating synergies; • financing obtained on unfavorable terms; • large, one-time expenses; 36 Table of Contents • payment or performance milestones to or sharing of revenue or profits with third parties; and • the creation of certain intangible assets, including goodwill, the write-down of which in future periods may result in significant charges to earnings. Any of these factors could materially harm our stock price, business, financial condition or results of operations. If we are unable to successfully integrate strategic acquisitions in a timely manner, our business and our growth strategies could be negatively affected. Even if we are able to successfully complete the integration of the operations of other companies or businesses we may acquire in the future, we may not be able to realize all or any of the benefits that we expect to result from the integration, either in monetary terms or in a timely manner. We may choose to license or acquire products or technologies, in addition to or instead of developing them ourselves. We cannot be certain that these efforts will be successful or that we will realize any revenue from them. We license or acquire products and technologies under licensing, purchasing and other agreements. In addition to active internal and external research and development efforts, we may seek, from time to time, to license or acquire new products or technologies to supplement or replace products or technologies. License and acquisition of technology involves numerous risks, including: • the inability to successfully license or acquire the product or technology; • the incurrence of significant financial commitments to third parties; • the payment of performance milestones to or sharing of revenue or profits with third parties; • the risks associated with licensing or acquiring intellectual property, including the need to defend against charges of misappropriation or infringement of patent or other proprietary rights of third parties; • the risks associated with third parties terminating licenses arrangements if we do not perform as required under the agreements; and • the creation of certain intangible assets, including goodwill, the write-down of which in future periods may result in significant charges to earnings. In addition, third parties may breach or terminate their license agreements with us or fail to conduct their activities in connection with our relationships in a timely manner. If we or our counterparties terminate or breach any of our licenses we may: • lose our right to develop and market certain intellectual property; • experience delays in the development or commercialization of our product; • litigate or arbitrate disputes, both of which are time-consuming and expensive and have uncertain outcomes; • incur liability for damages; and • be unable to obtain any other similar licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. Any of these factors could materially harm our stock price, business, financial condition or results of operations. 37 Table of Contents If we cannot successfully manage the additional business and regulatory risks that result from our expansion into multiple foreign markets, we may experience an adverse impact to our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have aggressively expanded, and expect to continue to expand, into additional foreign markets. This expansion will subject us to new business and regulatory risks, including, but not limited to: • failure to fulfill foreign regulatory requirements on a timely basis or at all to market the HVAD System or other future products; • availability of, and changes in, reimbursement within prevailing foreign health care payment systems; • adapting to the differing laws and regulations, business and clinical practices, and patient preferences in foreign countries; • difficulties in managing foreign relationships and operations, including any relationships that we may establish with foreign partners, distributors or sales or marketing agents; • compliance with the FCPA and the United Kingdom’s Bribery Act; • differing levels of protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; • costs of enforcing contractual obligations in foreign jurisdictions; • recessions in economies outside of the United States; • political instability and unexpected changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; and • potentially adverse tax consequences, including our ability to interpret local tax rules and implement appropriate tax treatment/collection. We will be impacted by these additional business risks, which may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, expansion into additional foreign markets imposes additional burdens on our small executive and administrative personnel, research and sales department and generally limited managerial resources. Our efforts to introduce our current or future products into additional foreign markets may not be successful, in which case we may have expended significant resources without realizing the expected benefit. Ultimately, the investments required for expansion into additional foreign markets could exceed the returns, if any, generated from this expansion. The taxation and customs requirements, together with other applicable laws and regulations of certain foreign jurisdictions, can be inherently complex and subject to differing interpretation by local authorities. We are subject to the risk that either we have misinterpreted applicable laws and regulations, or that foreign authorities may take inconsistent, unclear or changing positions on local law, customs practices or rules. In the event that we have misinterpreted any of the above, or that foreign authorities take positions contrary to ours, we may incur liabilities that may differ materially from the amounts accrued in our financial statements. The competition for qualified personnel is particularly intense in our industry. In addition, we have added or made changes to executive personnel during 2013 and may continue to do so as our needs evolve. If we are unable to retain or hire executive and other key personnel, we may not be able to sustain or grow our business. Our ability to operate successfully and manage our potential future growth depends significantly upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled and qualified research, technical, clinical, regulatory, sales, marketing, managerial, legal and financial personnel. We have hired and expect to continue to hire a substantial number of employees in these areas and others in order to support U.S. commercialization and the expected growth in our global business. During 2013, we filled key open positions, including Vice President, Research & 38 Table of Contents Development. However, we face intense competition for qualified personnel, and we may not be able to attract, retain and motivate these individuals. We compete for talent with numerous companies, as well as universities and non-profit research organizations. Our future success also depends on the personal efforts and abilities of the principal members of our senior management and scientific staff to provide strategic direction, management of our operations and maintenance of a cohesive and stable environment. Although we have employment and incentive compensation agreements with all of our executive officers and incentive and compensation plans for our other personnel providing them with various economic incentives to remain employed with us, these incentives may not be sufficient to retain them. We do not maintain key man life insurance on the lives of any of the members of our senior management. The loss of key personnel for any reason or our inability to hire, retain and motivate additional qualified personnel in the future could prevent us from sustaining or growing our business. Product liability claims could damage our reputation or adversely affect our business. The design, manufacture and marketing of human medical devices, particularly implantable life-sustaining medical devices, carries an inherent risk of product liability claims and other damage claims. Product liability and similar claims may be expensive to defend and may result in large judgments against us. A product liability or other damages claim, product recall or product misuse, regardless of the ultimate outcome, could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages and could seriously harm our business. We maintain clinical trial insurance and limited product liability insurance. We cannot be certain that insurance will be sufficient to cover all claims that may be made against us. Our insurance policies generally must be renewed on an annual basis. We may not be able to maintain or increase insurance on acceptable terms or at reasonable costs. A successful claim brought against us in excess, or outside of our insurance coverage could seriously harm our financial condition or results of operations. Generally, our clinical trials will be conducted in (and our commercial sales will be made to sites in respect of) patients with serious life-threatening diseases for whom conventional treatments have been unsuccessful or for whom no conventional treatment exists, and, during the course of treatment, these patients could suffer adverse medical effects or die for reasons that may or may not be related to our medical devices. Any of these events could result in a claim of liability. Claims against us, regardless of their merit, could result in significant awards against us that could materially adversely harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. A product liability or other damages claim, product recall or product misuse involving any type of VAD, but especially involving one of ours, could also materially and adversely damage our reputation and the perception of VADs generally and affect our ability to attract and retain customers, irrespective of whether or not the claim or recall was meritorious. Investors could lose confidence in our financial reports, and the value of our shares may be adversely affected, if our internal controls over financial reporting are found not to be effective by management or by our independent registered public accounting firm or if we make disclosure of existing or potential significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in those controls. Management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting is discussed in Item 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013. The Company’s management, with the participation of the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures, and internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013. Based on that evaluation, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures, and internal control over financial reporting are effective as of December 31, 2013. Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued their attestation report on our internal control over financial reporting, which is included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013. We continue to evaluate our existing internal controls over financial reporting against the standards adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB. During the course of our ongoing evaluation of the internal controls, we may identify areas requiring improvement and will design enhanced processes and 39 Table of Contents controls to address any issues identified through this review. As we continue to commercialize our products, we will need to enhance our accounting and financial controls functions, particularly as they relate to accounting for revenue and inventory, and we will need to add more personnel to our financial reporting group. Remediating any deficiencies, significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that have been or could be identified by us or our independent registered public accounting firm may require us to incur significant costs and expend significant time and management resources. We cannot assure you that any of the measures we implement to remedy any deficiencies will effectively mitigate or remedy deficiencies. The existence of one or more deficiencies or weaknesses could affect the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting. Investors could lose confidence in our financial reports, and the value of our shares may be adversely affected if our internal controls over financial reporting are found not to be effective by management or by our independent registered public accounting firm or if we make disclosure of existing or potential significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in those controls. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. Shares of our common stock were listed for trading on The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC on February 24, 2009. Trading commenced the following day. Prior to that time, there had been no public market for our common stock in the United States. The closing price of our shares of common stock traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC has ranged from U.S. $69.99 to U.S. $99.19 in the period from January 1, 2013 to December 31, 2013. The price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including the following: • future announcements or new information concerning us or our competitors, reimbursement, or the potential market for our products; • regulatory developments (such as the status of FDA approval of our device for the bridge-to-transplant indication), enforcement actions bearing on advertising, manufacturing, marketing or sales, and disclosure regarding completed, ongoing or future clinical trials; • quarterly variations in operating results and our liquidity, which we have experienced in the past and expect to experience in the future; • introduction of new products or changes in product pricing policies by us or our competitors; • acquisition or loss of significant customers, distributors or suppliers; • technology acquisitions or divestitures; • changes in third party reimbursement practices; • fluctuations of investor interest in the medical device sector; and • fluctuations in the economy, world political events, foreign currency movements or general market conditions. In addition, stock markets in general and the market for shares of healthcare stocks in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in recent years, fluctuations that frequently have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our shares. The market price of our shares could decline below its current price and the market price of our shares may fluctuate significantly in the future. These fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. Since 2005, interests in HeartWare were traded on the Australian Securities Exchange (the “ASX”) in the form of CHESS Depositary Interests, or CDIs, each representing one thirty-fifth of a share of our common stock. On September 17, 2013, HeartWare was officially delisted from the ASX meaning that interests in HeartWare are no longer publicly traded on the ASX. The absence of a listing on the ASX may reduce the ability of Australian residents to own shares of our common stock, which may impact our ability to raise capital in Australia. 40 Table of Contents We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our shares, and we currently do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain any earnings to finance the development and expansion of our products and business. Accordingly, our stockholders will not realize a return on their investment unless the trading price of our shares appreciates. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may discourage a third party from acquiring us, which could limit our stockholders’ opportunities to sell their shares at a premium. Certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws may be considered as having an anti-takeover effect, such as those provisions establishing a classified board of directors, consisting of three classes of directors, and requiring that directors be removed only for cause, authorizing the board of directors to issue from time to time any series of preferred stock and fix the designation, powers, preferences and rights of the shares of such series of preferred stock, prohibiting stockholders from acting by written consent in lieu of a meeting, requiring advance notice of stockholder intention to put forth director nominees or bring up other business at a stockholders’ meeting, and prohibiting stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders. We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which in general prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder, unless certain conditions specified therein are satisfied. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our stockholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of us in a tender offer or similar transaction. We may undergo an “ownership change” for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which would limit our ability to utilize net operating losses from prior tax years. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, we have incurred net losses since our inception. If we undergo an “ownership change” for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our ability to utilize net operating loss carry-forwards from prior years to reduce taxable income in future tax years might be limited by operation of the Internal Revenue Code, either by limiting the amount of net operating losses that can be utilized to offset taxable income in a given year, or in total over the entire carry-forward period. Certain changes in the ownership of our common stock may result in an ownership change sufficient to limit the availability of our net operating losses. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 