Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business faces many risks. We believe the risks described below are the material risks facing the Company. However, the risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional unknown risks or risks that we currently consider immaterial, may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline significantly. Investors should consider the specific risk factors discussed below, together with the cautionary statements under the caption “Forward-Looking Statements” and the other information and documents that we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Risks Relating to Our Business We have incurred operating losses since our inception and anticipate that we will continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future. We are a development stage company with a limited operating history. We have incurred net losses since our inception, including net losses of $21.9 million and $17.4 million for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. As of December 31, 2007, our accumulated deficit was $53.2 million. We do not currently have any products that have been approved for sale and we continue to incur significant research and development and general and administrative expenses related to our operations. We expect to continue to incur significant and increasing operating losses for the foreseeable future as we incur costs associated with the conduct of our clinical trials, continue our product research and development programs, seek regulatory approvals, initiate and expand our sales and marketing capabilities, increase our manufacturing operations and comply with the requirements related to being a public company. To become and remain profitable, we must succeed in developing and commercializing products with significant market potential. This will require us to succeed in a range of challenging activities, including conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and manufacturing, marketing and selling competitive, commercial products. We may never succeed in these activities, and we may never obtain regulatory approvals or otherwise generate revenues sufficient to achieve profitability. If we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain it. 20 Table of Contents We may need substantial additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts. Currently, we have no products available for commercial sale, and to date we have not generated any revenue from commercial sales or any other significant revenue. Although, we believe our cash and cash equivalents on hand and expected cash flows from operations, including expected sales, will be sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next twelve months notwithstanding that we do plan to seek additional funding in this period. Our ability to conduct our operations over the long-term is dependent on our ability to obtain additional funding by the first half of 2009. However, additional funding may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If we raise additional funding through the issuance of equity securities, our ordinary shares may suffer dilution. If we are unable to secure additional funding, our product development programs and our commercialization efforts would be delayed or reduced or may cease entirely. In addition, our operating subsidiary, HeartWare, Inc., issued Series A-1 and Series A-2 Preferred Stock to certain creditors of Kriton Medical, Inc., or Kriton, when HeartWare, Inc. purchased substantially all of the assets of Kriton in July 2003. The Series A-1 and Series A-2 Preferred Stock do not have any voting rights or the right to receive dividends but entitle the holders thereof to receive upon certain liquidation events (including deemed liquidation events, which are defined as a merger or consolidation of HeartWare, Inc., the sale of all or substantially all of its assets or the sale of a majority of its voting power) of HeartWare, Inc. an amount equal to $10 per share of Series A-1 and an amount equal to $21 per share of Series A-2, which currently represent an aggregate liquidation preference of $15 million. Such rights to receive a payment if there is a deemed liquidation event of HeartWare, Inc. may restrict our ability to structure our Company and its operations and could inhibit our ability to obtain financings. We have no products approved for commercial sale, and our success will depend heavily on the success of our clinical trial program for our lead device, the HeartWare LVAD System, particularly our US clinical trial which has not yet commenced. If the results of our international clinical trial are uncompetitive or we are unable to complete our US trial or if we experience significant delays in the completion of any of our clinical trials, our ability to obtain regulatory approval to commercialize our products and to generate revenues will be harmed. On August 31, 2007, we completed enrollment for our international clinical trial by implanting our 20th patient with our lead device, the HeartWare LVAD System. Having completed enrollment, we plan to make a submission to the Ethics Committee at each of the 5 centers in the trial to increase the number of patients to 50. Currently, we have received permission to extend our international clinical trial to 30 patients from all 5 of international centers. Though there is no requirement to conduct further implants, we believe extending patient numbers and increasing the depth of clinical data will be beneficial. As of the date of this report, we have completed implants in 30 patients with cumulative support duration of more than 6,050 days. Once the primary endpoint, 180 days or transplant, is reached for at least 20 patients we will submit data for our CE Mark in Europe. In November 2007, we made a submission to the US Food and Drug Administration for an IDE to commence a bridge-to-transplant clinical trial in the United States for our HeartWare LVAD System. The purpose of the proposed study is to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of the HeartWare LVAD System in patients eligible for cardiac transplantation with refractory, advanced heart failure. The proposed primary endpoint is survival to anesthetic induction for heart transplantation, survival to explant for myocardial recovery, or survival to 180 days on device support, whichever occurs first. As of the date of 21 Table of Contents this report, we have not yet received final approval from the US Food and Drug Administration to commence our clinical trial. Completion of our clinical trial program could be delayed or adverse events during the trial could cause us to repeat or terminate the trial. If our clinical trial is delayed, if it must be repeated or if it is terminated, our costs associated with the trial will increase, and it will take us longer to obtain regulatory approvals and commercialize the product or we may never obtain such regulatory approvals. Our clinical trials may also be suspended or terminated at any time by regulatory authorities or by us. Any failure or significant delay in completing clinical trials for our products candidates will harm our financial results and the commercial prospects for our products candidates. The completion of our clinical trial program could be substantially delayed or prevented by several factors, including: • slower than expected rates of patient recruitment and enrollment, including as a result of our competitors undertaking similar clinical trials or having equivalent products that have received approved for sale; • failure of patients to complete the clinical trial; • patients preferring to use approved devices rather than experimental devices such as our HeartWare LVAD System; • unforeseen safety issues; • lack of efficacy during clinical trials; • inability or unwillingness of patients or medical investigators to follow our clinical trial protocols; • inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment; • risks associated with trial design, which may result in a failure of the trial to show statistically significant results even if the product is effective; • governmental and regulatory delays or changes in regulatory requirements, policies or guidelines; and • varying interpretation of data by regulatory agencies. If either of our international or our US clinical trial does not demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the HeartWare LVAD System or if we do not receive regulatory approval in Europe, Australia and the United States, we will be unable to commercialize our product and generate revenues in those locations. Before we can obtain regulatory approval to commercialize the HeartWare LVAD System in Europe and Australia, which are the first places where we intend to seek such approval, we must be able to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product by meeting the endpoint of the trial. The endpoint for our international clinical trial is that 20 patients with advanced heart failure shall have been implanted with the HeartWare LVAD System and shall have survived to the earlier of 180 days or to the time that they have received a heart transplant. As of February 28, 2008, we have implanted 30 patients with an 22 Table of Contents average implant duration exceeding 200 days per patient. Our first 20 patients in our international clinical trial, which will form the basis of our CE mark submission, have been supported for an average duration of approximately 261 days, with 18 of these patients having reached the primary endpoint of our international clinical trial. Despite the encouraging results that we have observed to date, we may not be able to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the HeartWare LVAD System. Even if we complete our international clinical trial successfully, we may not receive regulatory approval in Europe and Australia. If we are unable to meet the endpoint or we do not obtain regulatory approval, we will be unable to commercialize our product and generate revenues. We must also demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our products in the United States by undertaking a separate clinical trial, which will initially be pursued by us conducting a bridge-to-transplant clinical trial in the United States. As of the date of this report, we have applied for, but have not yet received, our IDE to commence our bridge-to-transplant clinical trial in the United States for our HeartWare LVAD System. As such, we have not yet implanted any patients in the United States and, accordingly, it is uncertain as to whether we will be able to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the HeartWare LVAD System for the purposes of seeking US regulatory approval. Even if our international clinical trial is successful and we obtain foreign regulatory approvals, we will need to obtain FDA approval to commercialize our product in the United States, which will require us to receive FDA approval to conduct clinical trials in the United States and to complete those trials successfully. If we fail to obtain approval from the FDA, we will not be able to market and sell our products in the United States. We do not have the necessary regulatory approvals to commercialize our HeartWare LVAD System, or any of our other products, in the United States. We can offer no assurance that our HeartWare LVAD System, or any of our future products, will receive FDA approval. In order to obtain FDA approval to commence sales of our HeartWare LVAD System in the United States, we will be required to receive a pre-market approval, or PMA, from the FDA. A PMA must be supported by pre-clinical and clinical trials to demonstrate safety and efficacy. A clinical trial will be required to support an application for a PMA, but as noted above before we can commence a clinical trial, we must receive an IDE, and we do not yet know the outcome of our request to the FDA for an IDE. On October 31, 2007 we shipped our submission to the US Food and Drug Administration for an IDE for the HeartWare LVAD System and we have not yet received a final determination. Even if we receive an IDE, we do not know if our US clinical trials will begin or be completed on schedule or at all. Even if these trials are completed, we do not know if they will produce clinically meaningful results sufficient to show the safety and efficacy of our products so as to support an application for a PMA. The process of obtaining marketing approval or clearance from the FDA for our HeartWare LVAD System, or any future products or enhancements or modifications to any products, could: • take a significant period of time; • require the expenditure of substantial resources; • involve rigorous pre-clinical and clinical testing; • require changes to our products; and 23 Table of Contents • result in limitations on the indicated uses of the products. There can be no assurance that we will receive the required approvals from the FDA or, if we do receive the required approvals, that we will receive them on a timely basis or that we will otherwise be able to satisfy the conditions of such approval, if any. The failure to receive product approval clearance by the FDA will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may not meet regulatory quality standards applicable to our manufacturing and quality processes, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Even after products have received marketing approval or clearance, product approvals and clearances by the FDA can be withdrawn due to failure to comply with regulatory standards or the occurrence of problems following initial approval. As a device manufacturer, we are required to demonstrate and maintain compliance with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR. The QSR is a complex regulatory scheme that covers the methods and documentation of the design, testing, control, manufacturing, labeling, quality assurance, packaging, storage and shipping of our products. The FDA enforces the QSR through periodic unannounced site inspections. In addition, the US federal Medical Device Reporting regulations require us to provide information to the FDA whenever there is evidence that reasonably suggests that a device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or, if a malfunction were to occur, could cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements is subject to continual review and is rigorously monitored through periodic inspections by the FDA. Our failure to comply with the QSR or to take satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse QSR inspection could result in enforcement actions, including a public warning letter, a shutdown of or restrictions on our manufacturing operations, delays in approving or clearing a product, refusal to permit the import or export of our products, a recall or seizure of our products, fines, injunctions, civil or criminal penalties, or other sanctions, any of which could cause our business and operating results to suffer. In the European Union, we are required to maintain certain ISO certifications in order to sell our products and must undergo periodic inspections by notified bodies to obtain and maintain these certifications. If we do not comply, the FDA or European Union organizations may withdraw clearance to market, require a product recall or take other enforcement action. We plan to operate in multiple regulatory environments that require costly and time consuming approvals. Even if we obtain regulatory approvals to commercialize the HeartWare LVAD System or any other product that we may develop, sales of our products in other jurisdictions will be subject to regulatory requirements that vary from country to country. The time and cost required to obtain approvals from these countries may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval, and requirements for licensing may differ from those of the FDA. Laws and regulations regarding the manufacture and sale of our products are subject to future changes, as are administrative interpretations and policies of regulatory agencies. If we fail to comply with applicable foreign, federal, state or local market laws or regulations, we could be subject to enforcement actions. Enforcement actions could include product seizures, recalls, withdrawal of clearances or approvals, and civil and criminal penalties, which in each case would harm our business. 24 Table of Contents Our LVADs may never achieve market acceptance even if we obtain regulatory approvals. Even if we obtain regulatory approvals to commercialize the HeartWare LVAD System or any other product that we may develop, our products may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, health care payers or the medical community. The degree of market acceptance of any of the devices that we may develop will depend on a number of factors, including: • the perceived effectiveness of the product; • the prevalence and severity of any side effects; • potential advantages over alternative treatments or competitive products; • the strength of marketing and distribution support; and • sufficient third party coverage or reimbursement. If our HeartWare LVAD System, or any other product that we may develop, is approved but does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, patients, health care payers and the medical community, we may not generate product revenue and we may not become profitable or be able to sustain profitability. If we fail to obtain an adequate level of reimbursement for our products by third party payers, there may be no commercially viable markets for our product candidates or the markets may be much smaller than expected. The availability and levels of reimbursement by governmental and other third party payers affect the market for our product candidates. The efficacy, safety, performance and cost-effectiveness of our product candidates and of any competing products will determine the availability and level of reimbursement. Reimbursement and health care payment systems in international markets vary significantly by country, and include both government sponsored health care and private insurance. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to produce clinical data, which may involve one or more clinical trials, that compares the cost-effectiveness of our products to other available therapies. We may not obtain international reimbursement or pricing approvals in a timely manner or at all. Our failure to receive international reimbursement or pricing approvals would negatively impact market acceptance of our products in the international markets in which those approvals are sought. We believe that future reimbursement may be subject to increased restrictions both in the United States and in international markets. Future legislation, regulation or reimbursement policies of third party payers may adversely affect the demand for our products currently under development and limit our ability to sell our product candidates on a profitable basis. In addition, third party payers continually attempt to contain or reduce the costs of health care by challenging the prices charged for health care products and services. If reimbursement for our products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, market acceptance of our products would be impaired and our future revenues would be adversely affected. 25 Table of Contents If hospitals do not conduct destination therapy procedures using our LVADs, market opportunities for our product will be diminished. If hospitals do not conduct destination therapy procedures using our LVADs, our market opportunities will be diminished. The number of destination therapy procedures actually performed depends on many factors, most of which are out of our direct control, including: • the number of sites approved for destination therapy by relevant regulatory agencies; • the clinical outcomes of destination therapy procedures; • cardiology and referring physician education, and their commitment to destination therapy; • the economics of the destination therapy procedure for individual hospitals, which includes the costs of the LVAD and related pre-and post-operative procedures and their reimbursement; and • the economics of hospital’s not conducting a destination therapy procedure, including the costs and related reimbursements of long-term hospitalization. The different outcomes of these and other factors, and their timing, may have a material and adverse on our future results. We have limited sales, marketing and distribution experience. To develop and increase sales, distribution and marketing capabilities, we would have to invest significant amounts of financial and management resources. In developing these sales, marketing and distribution functions ourselves, we could face a number of risks, including: • we may not be able to attract and build a significant, successful or qualified marketing or sales force; • the cost of establishing, training and providing regulatory oversight for a marketing or sales force may be substantial; and • there are significant legal and regulatory risks in medical device marketing and sales, and any failure to comply with all legal and regulatory requirements for sales, marketing and distribution could result in enforcement action by the FDA or other authorities that could jeopardize our ability to market the product or could subject us to substantial liability. We have limited capabilities and manufacturing personnel, and if our manufacturing facilities are unable to provide an adequate supply of products, our growth could be limited and our business could be harmed. We currently manufacture our LVAD at our facilities in Miramar, Florida. If there were a disruption to our existing manufacturing facility, for example, due to a hurricane, we would have no other means of manufacturing our LVAD until we were able to restore the manufacturing capability at our facility or develop alternative manufacturing facilities. If we were unable to produce sufficient quantities of our LVADs for use in our current and planned clinical trials, or if our manufacturing process yields substandard LVADs, our development and commercialization efforts would be delayed. 26 Table of Contents We currently have limited resources, facilities and experience to commercially manufacture our products. In order to produce our products in the quantities that we anticipate will be required to meet anticipated market demand, we will need to increase substantially the production process over the current level of production. There are technical challenges to increasing manufacturing capacity, and developing commercial-scale manufacturing facilities would require the investment of substantial additional funds and hiring and retaining additional management and technical personnel who have the necessary manufacturing experience. We may not successfully complete any required increase in a timely manner or at all. If we are unable to do so, we may not be able to produce our LVADs in sufficient quantities to meet the requirements for the launch of the product or to meet future demand, if at all. If we are unable to manufacture a sufficient supply of our LVADs, or if we cannot do so efficiently, our revenues, business and financial prospects would be adversely affected. Our manufacturing facilities and the manufacturing facilities of our suppliers must comply with applicable regulatory requirements. If we fail to achieve regulatory approval for these manufacturing facilities, our business and our results of operations would be harmed. Completion of our clinical trials and commercialization of our products require access to, or the development of, manufacturing facilities that meet applicable regulatory standards to manufacture a sufficient supply of our products. In addition, the FDA must approve facilities that manufacture our products for US commercial purposes, as well as the manufacturing processes and specifications for the product with similar, additional, approvals required in order to achieve CE marking in Europe. Suppliers of components of, and products used to manufacture, our products must also comply with FDA and foreign regulatory requirements, which often require significant time, money, resources and record-keeping and quality assurance efforts and subject us and our suppliers to potential regulatory inspections and stoppages. If we or our suppliers fail to comply with the regulatory requirements for our manufacturing operations, our commercialization efforts could be delayed, which would harm our business and our results of operations. We rely on specialized suppliers for certain components and materials. We depend on a number of suppliers to successfully manufacture sufficient quantities of the components we use in our products. We rely on suppliers for critical components including the center post, housing and impeller that are assembled into our primary product, the HeartWare LVAD System, as well as finished products that comprise our peripheral and external equipment that is included in the HeartWare LVAD System. Lead times for our components are significant and can be up to as long as sixteen weeks and many of our components are manufactured to very tight tolerances. We are in the process of negotiating supply agreements with our key suppliers but have not formalized any supply arrangements, with the exception of the productions service agreement described below. We have second-source suppliers for many, but not all, of our components. If, however, any critical components are not delivered on time or at all or are delivered outside of specifications, for any reason, contractual or otherwise, our business may be seriously harmed financially. Additionally, significant changes to our components may require product redesign and new regulatory clearances, either of which could significantly delay or prevent production or involve substantial cost. We have a production services agreement with Minnetronix, Inc., located in Minnesota, as the supplier of the patient monitor and controllers. The agreement, effective August 17, 2006, is for an initial term of one year, and automatically renews for additional periods of one year unless either party elects not to renew the agreement by giving at least 90 days prior written notice. This agreement has been renewed through August 17, 2008 and we expect to renegotiate this arrangement during the course of 2008 for 2009 and beyond. The agreement may also be terminated in an event of a breach upon specified notice, 27 Table of Contents or for convenience by either party giving the other party 180 days prior written notice. Although we are required to submit 12-month forecasts to Minnetronix, we cannot assure you that they will be able to have the capacity to accommodate our demand. While we have identified second-source suppliers for other key components, we have not entered into written agreements with these suppliers and we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our manufacturing schedule without undue delay or substantial cost if any of these arrangements are terminated. Additionally, we may experience problems or delays in our own manufacturing process, which may be harmful to our financial status or reputation and therefore make it more difficult or expensive for us to continue with or enter into relationships with specialized suppliers. Our business plan is predicated on entering into and renewing agreements with one or more external parties to manufacture components of our technology. If we are unable to secure or maintain agreements with these manufacturers on favorable terms or at all, then our ability to commercialize our technology and expand our operations will be impaired. We may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain protection in the United States and other countries of the intellectual property relating to or incorporated into our technology and products. As of December 31, 2007, we have 15 issued US patents and 10 issued Australian patents, 3 issued patents in each of Germany, the United Kingdom and France, as well as patents issued in the Netherlands, Spain, Italy, Korea and Canada, and Israel. We also have 23 pending US patent applications and a number of international patent applications filed under the Patent Cooperation Treaty, as well as in Japan, Europe and Australia. Our pending and future patent applications may not issue as patents or, if issued, may not issue in a form that will provide us any competitive advantage. Even if issued, existing or future patents may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing similar products or limit the length of terms of patent protection we may have for our products. Changes in patent laws or their interpretation in the United States and other countries could also diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. In addition, the legal systems of certain countries do not favor the aggressive enforcement of patents, and the laws of foreign countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. As a result, our patent portfolio may not provide us with sufficient rights to exclude others from commercializing products similar or identical to ours. In order to preserve and enforce our patent and other intellectual property rights, we may need to make claims or file lawsuits against third parties. This can entail significant costs to us and divert our management’s attention from developing and commercializing our products. Intellectual property litigation could be costly and disruptive to us. From time to time, third parties may assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies used in our business. Any claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel and require us to pay substantial damages. If we are unsuccessful in defending ourselves against these types of claims, we may be required to do one or more of the following: • stop our ongoing or planned clinical trials or delay or abandon commercialization of the product that is the subject of the suit; 28 Table of Contents • attempt to obtain a license to sell or use the relevant technology or substitute technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; or • redesign those products that use the relevant technology. In the event a claim against us was successful and we could not obtain a license to the relevant technology on acceptable terms or license a substitute technology or redesign our products to avoid infringement, our business would be significantly harmed. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology and products could be adversely affected. In addition to patented technology, we rely on our unpatented proprietary technology, trade secrets, processes and know-how. We generally seek to protect this information by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, scientific advisors and third parties. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. To the extent that our employees, consultants or contractors use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. If we are unable to manage our expected growth, we may not be able to commercialize our product candidates. We expect to continue to expand our operations and grow our research and development, product development, regulatory, manufacturing, sales, marketing and administrative operations. This expansion has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our management and operational and financial resources. To manage any further growth and to commercialize our products, we will be required to improve existing and implement new operational and financial systems, procedures and controls and expand, train and manage our growing employee base. In addition, we will need to manage relationships with various manufacturers, suppliers and other organizations, including various regulatory bodies in the United States and other jurisdictions. Our ability to manage our operations and growth will require us to improve our operational, financial and management controls, as well as our internal reporting systems and controls. We may not be able to implement such improvements to our management information and internal control systems in an efficient and timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. Our failure to accomplish any of these tasks could materially harm our business. We compete against companies that have longer operating histories, more established or approved products and greater resources than we do, which may prevent us from achieving further market penetration or improving operating results. Competition in the medical device industry is intense. Our products will compete against products offered by public companies, such as Thoratec, Inc. and Ventracor Limited, as well as several private companies, such as Jarvik Heart, Inc and Terumo Heart, Inc. Some of these competitors have significantly greater financial and human resources than we do and have established reputations or products, as well as distribution channels and sales and marketing capabilities that are larger and more established than ours. Additional competitors may enter the market, and we are likely to compete with new companies in the future. We also face competition from other medical therapies which may focus on our target market as well as competition from manufacturers of pharmaceutical and other devices that have not yet been developed. Competition from these companies could adversely affect our business. 29 Table of Contents Our ability to compete effectively depends upon our ability to distinguish our company and our products from our competitors and their products. Factors affecting our competitive position include: • product performance and design; • product safety; • sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; • comparable clinical outcomes; • success and timing of new product development and introductions; and • intellectual property protection. The competition for qualified personnel is particularly intense in our industry. If we are unable to retain or hire key personnel, we may not be able to sustain or grow our business. Our ability to operate successfully and manage our potential future growth depends significantly upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled and qualified research, technical, clinical, regulatory, sales, marketing, managerial and financial personnel. We face intense competition for such personnel, and we may not be able to attract, retain and motivate these individuals. We compete for talent with numerous companies, as well as universities and non-profit research organizations. Our future success also depends on the personal efforts and abilities of the principal members of our senior management and scientific staff to provide strategic direction, manage our operations and maintain a cohesive and stable environment. Although we have employment and incentive compensation agreements with all of our executive officers and incentive and compensation plans for our other personnel providing them with various economic incentives to remain employed with us, these incentives may not be sufficient to retain them. We do not maintain key man life insurance on the lives of any of the members of our senior management other than for Mr. LaRose, our Chief Scientific Officer. The loss of key personnel for any reason or our inability to hire, retain and motivate additional qualified personnel in the future could prevent us from sustaining or growing our business. Product liability claims could damage our reputation or adversely affect our business. The design, manufacture and marketing of human medical devices carries an inherent risk of product liability claims. Such liability claims may be expensive to defend and may result in large judgments against us. While our products are “investigational devices” and not approved for sale, we maintain clinical trial insurance and limited product liability insurance. We cannot be certain that such insurance will be sufficient to cover all claims that may be made against us. Our insurance policies generally must be renewed on an annual basis. We may not be able to maintain or increase such insurance on acceptable terms or at reasonable costs. A successful claim brought against us in excess, or outside, of our insurance coverage could seriously harm our financial condition and results of operations. Generally, our clinical trials will be conducted in patients with serious life-threatening diseases for whom conventional treatments have been unsuccessful or for whom no conventional treatment exists, and, during the course of treatment, these patients could suffer adverse medical effects or die for reasons that may or may not be related to our medical devices. Any of these events could result in a claim of liability. Such claims against us, regardless of their merit, could result in significant awards against us that could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 30 Table of Contents Investors could lose confidence in our financial reports, and the value of our ordinary shares may be adversely affected, if our internal controls over financial reporting are found not to be effective by management or by an independent registered public accounting firm or if we make disclosure of existing or potential significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in those controls. This annual report does not include a report of our management’s assessment regarding internal control over financial reporting or an attestation report of our registered public accounting firm due to a transition period established by SEC rules for newly public companies. We will be required to include both of such reports in our annual report on Form 10-K for fiscal years ending on or after December 31, 2008, unless the SEC provides further extension to the compliance date. We continue to evaluate our existing internal controls over financial reporting against the standards adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB. During the course of our ongoing evaluation of the internal controls, we will identify areas requiring improvement and will design enhanced processes and controls to address issues identified through this review. Remediating any deficiencies, significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that have been or could be identified by us or our independent registered public accounting firm may require us to incur significant costs and expend significant time and management resources. We cannot assure you that any of the measures we implement to remedy any such deficiencies will effectively mitigate or remedy such deficiencies. The existence of one or more such deficiencies or weaknesses could affect the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting. Investors could lose confidence in our financial reports, and the value of our ordinary shares may be adversely affected, if our internal controls over financial reporting are found not to be effective by management or by an independent registered public accounting firm or if we make disclosure of existing or potential significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in those controls. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our financial results. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates can affect the value of our assets, liabilities, costs and revenues. Currently, all of our capital raising activities are undertaken in Australian dollars while most of our expenditures are incurred in US dollars. We try to mitigate our exposure to currency exchange risks by holding some funds in US dollars. We may suffer losses as a result of exchange rate fluctuations. Risk Factors Related to Our Ordinary Shares There is no current trading market for our ordinary shares in the United States and no such market may develop. Although our ordinary shares are currently listed on the Australian Securities Exchange, or ASX, there is not any current trading market for our ordinary shares in the United States. In addition, in order to comply with the U.S. Securities Act, restrictions placed on our ordinary shares traded on the ASX provide that they may not be sold to US persons. In the future, we may seek to list our ordinary shares on a US securities exchange; however, there is no certainty that we would be successful in achieving a listing. As a result, no trading market for the ordinary shares may develop in the United States and, except for trading on the ASX, you may not be able to transfer or resell your shares within the United States at their fair value or at all. Conversion of our outstanding convertible note or other future issuances of our ordinary shares will dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders. As of December 31, 2007, we had a convertible note payable to our largest shareholder, with an amount due of approximately AU$1.5 million, including principal and accrued interest. The note has a conversion price of AU$1.00 which may be converted into 1.5 million ordinary shares. The conversion 31 Table of Contents of this convertible note, together with interest accrued to the date of conversion, will dilute the ownership interest of our existing shareholders, and any subsequent sales in the public market of the ordinary shares issuable upon this conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our ordinary shares. Further, the existence of the convertible note may encourage short selling of our ordinary shares by market participants because the conversion of the convertible note could depress the price of our ordinary shares. In addition, future sales of substantial amounts of our shares, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our shares. Sales of our shares and the potential for such sales could cause our share price to decline. The price of our ordinary shares may fluctuate significantly. Our ordinary shares have been traded on the ASX since January 31, 2005. The price of our ordinary shares has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile, which means that it could decline substantially within a short period of time. For example, our closing share price has ranged from AU$0.53 to AU$0.92 in the 12 months ended December 31, 2007. The price of our ordinary shares could fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including the following: • future announcements concerning us or our competitors; • regulatory developments, enforcement actions bearing on advertising, marketing or sales, and disclosure regarding completed, ongoing or future clinical trials; • quarterly variations in operating results, which we have experienced in the past and expect to experience in the future; • introduction of new products or changes in product pricing policies by us or our competitors; • acquisition or loss of significant customers, distributors or suppliers; • business acquisitions or divestitures; • changes in third party reimbursement practices; • fluctuations of investor interest in the medical device sector; and • fluctuations in the economy, world political events or general market conditions. In addition, stock markets in general and the market for shares of health care stocks in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in recent years, fluctuations that frequently have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. The market price of our ordinary shares could decline below its current price and the market price of our shares may fluctuate significantly in the future. These fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. Your interests may differ or conflict with those of the Company’s largest shareholder. As of December 31, 2007, Apple Tree Partners I, L.P., or Apple Tree, owned approximately 37% of our outstanding ordinary shares, without giving effect to the conversion of a convertible note held by Apple Tree. As a result, Apple Tree has and will continue to have significant influence over the outcome of any matter, including a change of control, requiring approval of holders of ordinary shares under 32 Table of Contents Australian law and the rules of any stock exchange on which our ordinary shares may be listed. The interests of Apple Tree may differ from or conflict with the interests of other shareholders regarding a potential change of control of us or other matters requiring a vote of shareholders. Apple Tree’s significant influence over us and our subsidiaries may delay or prevent a change in control even if desired by the other holders of ordinary shares, which could adversely affect the trading price of the ordinary shares. If there are substantial sales of ordinary shares, our share price could decline. If our existing shareholders sell a large number of ordinary shares or the public market, should one develop, perceives that existing shareholders might sell a large number of ordinary shares, the prices at which our ordinary shares may trade could decline significantly. Sales of substantial amounts of ordinary shares by shareholders in the public market, or even the potential for such sales, are likely to adversely affect the market price of the ordinary shares. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our ordinary shares in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our ordinary shares, and we currently do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain any earnings to finance the development and expansion of our products and business. Accordingly, our shareholders will not realize a return on their investment unless the trading price of our ordinary shares appreciates. We are currently classified as a PFIC for US federal income tax purposes. As long as we remain a PFIC, US holders of our ordinary shares may be subject to adverse tax consequences. We are currently classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for US federal income tax purposes because substantially all of our revenue is currently derived from interest on our cash balances. As a result, for so long as we remain a PFIC, US holders of our ordinary shares could be subject to substantially increased US tax liability, including an interest charge upon the sale or other disposition of their ordinary shares or upon the receipt of “excess distributions” from us. These investors may be able to avoid some of their increased tax liability by electing to treat the Company as a qualified electing fund, or QEF. However, in order for US investors to be able to make such an election, we would be required, among other things, to provide certain information to them on an annual basis regarding the US shareholder’s pro rata share of capital gain and ordinary income for the year and the amount of cash and property distributed to the shareholder. Due to the time and expense required to provide such information, we do not currently intend to provide it. US investors should consult their own tax advisors concerning the US federal income tax consequences that would apply to their investment in our ordinary shares. Some provisions of Australian law have anti-takeover effects that could discourage or prohibit the acquisition of us by others, even if such an acquisition would be beneficial to our shareholders. Entities wishing to acquire us will need to comply with Australian laws, including the Australian Corporations Act (“the Corporations Act”) and the Foreign Acquisition and Takeover Act. These laws prescribe the steps that an acquirer must undertake in order to acquire a significant interest, being greater than 20%, in the Company. A summary of these requirements are set out under Item 11 “– Acquisition of the Company” and “– Foreign Acquisition and Takeover Act” of our Registration Statement on Form 10 (File No. 000-52595) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 30, 2007, as amended. These laws may discourage or prohibit the acquisition of us by others, even if such an acquisition would be beneficial to our shareholders. 33 Table of Contents We may be subject to arbitrage risks. Investors may seek to profit by exploiting the difference, if any, in the price of our ordinary shares on the ASX and the price of our ordinary shares available for sale in the United States, whether such sales would take place on a US securities exchange or in the over-the-counter market or otherwise. Such arbitrage activities could cause our share price in the market with the higher value to decrease to the price set by the market with the lower value. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 