Item 1A. Risk Factors As described in Part I (“Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements”), this report contains forward-looking statements regarding us, our business and our industry. The risk factors described below, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be negatively impacted. The economic slowdown may have an impact on our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. The continuing challenges in the global economy and financial markets may have an impact on our business and our financial condition. If any of our lenders become unable to perform their obligations under our credit facilities, our borrowing capacity under these facilities could be reduced. Inability to borrow additional amounts under those facilities could limit our ability to fund our future growth and operations. These challenges could also have an impact on our derivative agreements if any of our counterparties are unable to perform their obligations under those agreements. A reduction in demand for oil or natural gas or prices for those commodities, or instability in North American or global energy market, could adversely affect our business. Our results of operations depend upon the level of activity in the global energy market, including natural gas development, production, processing and transportation. For example, as a result of market conditions in 2009, our North America contract operations and fabrication revenues and bookings decreased and resulted in a decrease in income from continuing operations. Oil and natural gas prices and the level of drilling and exploration activity can be volatile. For example, oil and natural gas exploration and development activity and the number of well completions typically decline when there is a significant reduction in oil and natural gas prices or significant instability in energy markets. As a result, the demand for our natural gas compression services and oil and natural gas production and processing equipment could be adversely affected. A reduction in demand could also force us to reduce our pricing substantially. Additionally, in North America compression services for our customers’ production from unconventional natural gas sources such as tight sands, shales and coalbeds constitute an increasing percentage of our business. Some of these unconventional sources are less economic to produce in lower natural gas price environments. Further, some of these unconventional sources may not require as much compression or require compression as early in the production life-cycle of an unconventional field or well as has been experienced historically in conventional and other unconventional natural gas sources. These factors could in turn negatively impact the demand for our products and services. A decline in demand for oil and natural gas or prices for those commodities, or instability in the North America or global energy markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we review our long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. A decline in demand for oil and natural gas or prices for those commodities, or instability in the North America or global energy markets could cause a further reduction in demand for our products and services and result in a reduction of our estimates of future cash flows and growth rates in our business. These events could cause us to record additional impairments of long-lived assets. For example, during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, we recorded goodwill impairments of $150.8 million and $1,148.4 million, respectively; and during 2009 and 2008, we recorded fleet impairments of $91.0 million and $24.1 million, respectively. The impairment of our goodwill, intangible assets or other long-lived assets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 16 Table of Contents The currently available supply of compression equipment owned by our customers and competitors could cause a further reduction in demand for our products and services and a further reduction in our pricing. We believe there currently exists a greater supply of idle and underutilized compression equipment owned by our customers and competitors in North America than in recent years, which has limited, and will continue to limit in the near term, our ability to maintain or improve our horsepower utilization and revenues. Some of our customers may continue to replace our compression equipment and services with equipment they own or with competitor owned equipment and may continue to rationalize their amount of compression horsepower. In addition, some of our customers or prospective customers may purchase their own compression equipment in lieu of using our products or services. For example, our total North America operating horsepower decreased by approximately 17% from December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2009, and we expect further horsepower declines into 2010. A further reduction in demand for our products and services, or a further reduction in our pricing for our products or services, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The erosion of the financial condition of our customers could adversely affect our business. Many of our customers finance their exploration and development activities through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. During times when the oil or natural gas markets weaken, our customers are more likely to experience a downturn in their financial condition. A reduction in borrowing bases under reserve-based credit facilities and the lack of availability of debt or equity financing could result in a reduction in our customers’ spending for our products and services. For example, our customers could seek to preserve capital by canceling month-to-month contracts, canceling or delaying scheduled maintenance of their existing natural gas compression and oil and natural gas production and processing equipment or determining not to enter into any new natural gas compression service contracts or purchase new compression and oil and natural gas production and processing equipment, thereby reducing demand for our products and services. Reduced demand for our products and services could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, in the event of the financial failure of a customer, we could experience a loss on all or a portion of our outstanding accounts receivable associated with that customer. There are many risks associated with conducting operations in international markets. We operate in many geographic markets outside the U.S., which entails difficulties in staffing and managing our international operations and complying with legal and regulatory requirements. Changes in local economic or political conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For example, as discussed in Note 2 to the Financial Statements, in 2009 the Venezuelan state-owned oil company, Petroleos de Venezuela S.A. (“PDVSA”), assumed control over substantially all of our assets and operations in Venezuela. The risks inherent in our international business activities include the following: • difficulties in managing international operations, including our ability to timely and cost effectively execute projects; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, laws or policies by foreign agencies or governments; • training and retaining qualified personnel in international markets; • the burden of complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws and regulations; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • governmental actions that result in the deprivation of contract rights and other difficulties in enforcing contractual obligations; • governmental actions that result in restricting the movement of property; 17 Table of Contents • foreign currency exchange rate risks; • difficulty in collecting international accounts receivable; • potentially longer receipt of payment cycles; • changes in political and economic conditions in the countries in which we operate, including general political unrest, the nationalization of energy related assets, civil uprisings, riots, kidnappings and terrorist acts; • the potential risks relating to the retention of sales representatives, consultants and other agents in certain high-risk countries; • potentially adverse tax consequences or tax law changes; • currency controls or restrictions on repatriation of earnings or expropriation of property without fair compensation; • the risk that our international customers may have reduced access to credit because of higher interest rates, reduced bank lending or a deterioration in our customers’ or their lenders’ financial condition; • the geographic, time zone, language and cultural differences among personnel in different areas of the world; and • difficulties in establishing new international offices and risks inherent in establishing new relationships in foreign countries. In addition, we plan to expand our business in international markets where we have not previously conducted business. The risks inherent in establishing new business ventures, especially in international markets where local customs, laws and business procedures present special challenges, may affect our ability to be successful in these ventures or avoid losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. There are risks associated with our operations in Nigeria. Local unrest and violence in Nigeria have adversely affected our historical financial results and could result in additional impairments and write-downs of our assets in Nigeria if the political situation in Nigeria does not improve. Our operations in Nigeria are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties associated with operating in Nigeria. These risks include, among other things, political, social and economic instability, civil uprisings, riots, terrorism, kidnapping, the taking of property without fair compensation and governmental actions that may restrict payments or the movement of funds or property or result in the deprivation of contract rights. Any of these risks, including risks arising from the increase in violence and local unrest in Nigeria over the past several years, could adversely impact our operations in Nigeria and could affect the timing and decrease the amount of revenue we may realize from our assets in Nigeria. At December 31, 2009 our net investment in assets in Nigeria was $46.9 million. We are exposed to exchange rate fluctuations in the international markets in which we operate. A decrease in the value of any of these currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could reduce profits from international operations and the value of our international net assets. We operate in many international countries. We anticipate that there will be instances in which costs and revenues will not be exactly matched with respect to currency denomination. We generally do not hedge exchange rate exposures, which exposes us to the risk of exchange rate losses. Gains and losses from the remeasurement of assets and liabilities that are receivable or payable in currency other than our subsidiaries’ functional currency are included in our consolidated statements of operations. In addition, currency fluctuations cause the U.S. dollar value of our international results of operations and net assets to vary with exchange rate fluctuations. This could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, fluctuations in currencies relative to currencies in which the earnings are generated may make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of our reported results of operations. For 18 Table of Contents example, other (income) expense, net for the year ended December 31, 2009 includes foreign currency translation gains of $16.7 million compared to a loss of $10.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. To the extent we continue to expand geographically, we expect that increasing portions of our revenues, costs, assets and liabilities will be subject to fluctuations in foreign currency valuations. We may experience economic loss and a negative impact on earnings or net assets solely as a result of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Further, the markets in which we operate could restrict the removal or conversion of the local or foreign currency, resulting in our inability to hedge against these risks. Our failure to timely and cost-effectively execute on larger projects could adversely affect our business. As our business has grown, the size and scope of some of our contracts with our customers has increased. This increase in size and scope can translate into more technically challenging conditions or performance specifications for our products and services. Contracts with our customers generally specify delivery dates, performance criteria and penalties for our failure to perform. Any failure to execute such larger projects in a timely and cost effective manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may incur losses on fixed-price contracts, which constitute a significant portion of our fabrication business. In connection with projects covered by fixed-price contracts, we generally bear the risk of cost over-runs, operating cost inflation, labor availability and productivity, and supplier and subcontractor pricing and performance unless they result from customer-requested change orders. Under both our fixed-price contracts and our cost-reimbursable contracts, we may rely on third parties for many support services, and we could be subject to liability for their failures. For example, we have experienced losses on certain large fabrication projects that have negatively impacted our fabrication results. Our failure to accurately estimate our costs and the time required for a fixed-price fabrication project could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We have a substantial amount of debt that could limit our ability to fund future growth and operations and increase our exposure to risk during adverse economic conditions. At December 31, 2009, we had approximately $2.3 billion in outstanding debt obligations. Many factors, including factors beyond our control, may affect our ability to make payments on our outstanding indebtedness. These factors include those discussed elsewhere in these Risk Factors and those listed in the Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements section included in Part I of this report. Our substantial debt and associated commitments could have important adverse consequences. For example, these commitments could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our contractual obligations; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our ability to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other corporate requirements; • increase our vulnerability to interest rate fluctuations because the interest payments on a portion of our debt are based upon variable interest rates and a portion can adjust based upon our credit statistics; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; • place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • limit our ability to refinance our debt in the future or borrow additional funds. 19 Table of Contents We may be vulnerable to interest rate increases due to our floating rate debt obligations. As of December 31, 2009, after taking into consideration interest rate swaps, we had approximately $406.4 million of outstanding indebtedness subject to interest at floating rates. Changes in economic conditions outside of our control could result in higher interest rates, thereby increasing our interest expense and reducing the funds available for capital investment, operations or other purposes. Covenants in our debt agreements may impair our ability to operate our business. Our bank credit facilities, asset-backed securitization facilities and the agreements governing certain of our other indebtedness include various covenants with which we must comply, including, but not limited to, limitations on incurrence of indebtedness, investments, liens on assets, transactions with affiliates, mergers, consolidations, sales of assets and other provisions customary in similar types of agreements. For example, we must maintain various consolidated financial ratios including a ratio of EBITDA (as defined in the credit agreement) to Total Interest Expense (as defined in the credit agreement) of not less than 2.25 to 1.0, a ratio of consolidated Total Debt (as defined in the credit agreement) to EBITDA of not greater than 5.0 to 1.0 and a ratio of Senior Secured Debt (as defined in the credit agreement) to EBITDA of not greater than 4.0 to 1.0. As of December 31, 2009, we maintained a 6.1 to 1.0 EBITDA to Total Interest Expense ratio, a 3.5 to 1.0 consolidated Total Debt to EBITDA ratio and a 2.8 to 1.0 Senior Secured Debt to EBITDA ratio. As of December 31, 2009, we were in compliance with all financial covenants under our credit agreements. If we fail to remain in compliance with our financial covenants we would be in default under our credit agreements. In addition, if we experience a material adverse effect on our assets, liabilities, financial condition, business, operations or prospects that, taken as a whole, impacted our ability to perform our obligations under our credit agreements, this could lead to a default under our credit agreements. A default under one or more of our debt agreements would in some situations trigger cross-default provisions under certain agreements relating to our debt obligations. If our operations in Venezuela had been excluded from our calculation of EBITDA for the year ended December 31, 2009, we would have had a 5.9 to 1.0 EBITDA to Total Interest Expense ratio, a 3.7 to 1.0 consolidated Total Debt to EBITDA ratio and a 2.9 to 1.0 Senior Secured Debt to EBITDA ratio. The Partnership’s credit facility and asset-backed securitization facility also include covenants limiting its ability to make distributions, incur indebtedness, grant liens, merge, make loans, acquisitions, investments or dispositions and engage in transactions with affiliates. The Partnership must maintain various consolidated financial ratios, including a ratio of EBITDA (as defined in the Partnership Credit Agreement) to Total Interest Expense (as defined in the Partnership Credit Agreement) of not less than 2.5 to 1.0, and a ratio of Total Debt (as defined in the Partnership Credit Agreement) to EBITDA of not greater than 5.0 to 1.0. As of December 31, 2009, the Partnership maintained a 5.2 to 1.0 EBITDA to Total Interest Expense ratio and a 4.0 to 1.0 Total Debt to EBITDA ratio. The Partnership Credit Agreement allows for the Partnership’s Total Debt to EBITDA ratio to be increased from 5.0 to 1.0 to 5.5 to 1.0 during a quarter when an acquisition closes meeting certain thresholds and for the following two quarters after the acquisition closes. Therefore, because the Partnership acquired from us additional contract operations customer service agreements and a fleet of compressor units used to provide compression services under those agreements, which met the applicable thresholds in the fourth quarter of 2009, the maximum allowed ratio of Total Debt to EBITDA was increased from 5.0 to 1.0 to 5.5 to 1.0 for the period from December 31, 2009 through June 30, 2010. After June 30, 2010, the Partnership’s required Total Debt to EBITDA ratio will revert to 5.0 to 1.0. As of December 31, 2009, the Partnership was in compliance with all financial covenants under the Partnership Credit Agreement. As of December 31, 2009, due to certain covenant limitations under the facility, only approximately $58.2 million of the $230.0 million in unfunded commitments could have been available for additional borrowings, if such facility were fully funded with all eligible contract compression assets available at that time. If our operations within Exterran ABS experience additional reductions in cash flows, the amount available for additional borrowings could be further reduced. If we continue to experience a significant deterioration in the demand for our products or services, we may not be able to comply with certain of the covenants associated with our indebtedness. The breach of any of our covenants could result in a default under one or more of our debt agreements, which could cause our 20 Table of Contents indebtedness under those agreements to become due and payable. In addition, a default under one or more of our debt agreements, including a default by the Partnership under its credit facilities, would trigger cross-default provisions under certain of our debt agreements, which would accelerate our obligation to repay our indebtedness under those agreements. If the Partnership continues to experience a deterioration in the demand for its services, and is unable to consummate further acquisitions from us, amend its senior secured credit facility or restructure its debt, it estimates that it could be in violation of the maximum Total Debt to EBITDA covenant ratio contained in its senior secured credit facility during 2010. The breach of this or any other covenant could result in a default under the Partnership’s credit agreement, which could cause its indebtedness under the credit agreement to become due and payable. If the repayment obligations on any of our indebtedness were to be so accelerated, we may not be able to repay the debt or refinance the debt on acceptable terms, and our financial position would be materially adversely affected. Many of our contract operations services contracts have short initial terms, and we cannot be sure that such contracts will be renewed after the end of the initial contractual term. The length of our contract operations services contracts with customers varies based on operating conditions and customer needs. In most cases, based on currently prevailing services rates, our initial contract terms are not long enough to enable us to fully recoup the cost of the equipment we utilize to provide contract operations services. We cannot be sure that a substantial number of these customers will continue to renew their contracts, that we will be able to enter into new contract operations services contracts with customers or that any renewals will be at comparable rates. The inability to renew a substantial portion of our contract operations services contracts, or the inability to renew a substantial portion of our contract operations services contracts at comparable service rates, would lead to a reduction in revenues and net income and could require us to record additional asset impairments. This would have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We depend on particular suppliers and are vulnerable to product shortages and price increases. Some of the components used in our products are obtained from a single source or a limited group of suppliers. Our reliance on these suppliers involves several risks, including price increases, inferior component quality and a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components in a timely manner. The partial or complete loss of certain of these sources could have a negative impact on our results of operations and could damage our customer relationships. Further, a significant increase in the price of one or more of these components could have a negative impact on our results of operations. We face significant competitive pressures that may cause us to lose market share and harm our financial performance. Our industry is highly competitive and there are low barriers to entry, especially in North America. We expect to experience competition from companies that may be able to adapt more quickly to technological changes within our industry and throughout the economy as a whole, more readily take advantage of acquisitions and other opportunities and adopt more aggressive pricing policies. Our ability to renew or replace existing contract operations service contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenue and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of our competitors. If our competitors substantially increase the resources they devote to the development and marketing of competitive products or services or substantially decrease the price at which they offer their products or services, we may not be able to compete effectively. Some of these competitors may expand or fabricate new compression units that would create additional competition for the services we currently provide to our customers. In addition, our other lines of business could face significant competition. We also may not be able to take advantage of certain opportunities or make certain investments because of our significant leverage and our other obligations. Any of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 21 Table of Contents Our operations entail inherent risks that may result in substantial liability. We do not insure against all potential losses and could be seriously harmed by unexpected liabilities. Our operations entail inherent risks, including equipment defects, malfunctions and failures and natural disasters, which could result in uncontrollable flows of natural gas or well fluids, fires and explosions. These risks may expose us, as an equipment operator and fabricator, to liability for personal injury, wrongful death, property damage, pollution and other environmental damage. The insurance we carry against many of these risks may not be adequate to cover our claims or losses. We currently have a minimal amount of insurance on our offshore assets. In addition, we are substantially self-insured for worker’s compensation, employer’s liability, property, auto liability, general liability and employee group health claims in view of the relatively high per-incident deductibles we absorb under our insurance arrangements for these risks. Further, insurance covering the risks we expect to face or in the amounts we desire may not be available in the future or, if available, the premiums may not be commercially justifiable. If we were to incur substantial liability and such damages were not covered by insurance or were in excess of policy limits, or if we were to incur liability at a time when we were not able to obtain liability insurance, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted. The tax treatment of the Partnership depends on its status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, as well as it not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service treats the Partnership as a corporation or if the Partnership becomes subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, it would substantially reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to the Partnership’s unitholders and undermine the cost of capital advantage we believe the Partnership has. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in the Partnership’s common units depends largely on it being treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The Partnership has not received a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) on this or any other tax matter affecting it. If the Partnership were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, it would pay U.S. federal income tax at the corporate tax rate and would also likely pay state income tax. Treatment of the Partnership as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to its unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of its common units. Current law may change so as to cause the Partnership to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject it to entity-level taxation. In addition, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. The Partnership’s partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects it to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects it to entity-level taxation for U.S. federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution levels of the Partnership may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on it at the option of its general partner without the consent of its unitholders. If the Partnership were to be taxed at the entity level, it would lose the comparative cost of capital advantage we believe it has over time as compared to a corporation. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or our investment in the Partnership could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including the Partnership, or our investment in the Partnership may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, judicial interpretations of the U.S. federal income tax laws may have a direct or indirect impact on the Partnership’s status as a partnership and, in some instances, a court’s conclusions may heighten the risk of a challenge regarding the Partnership’s status as a partnership. Moreover, members of Congress have considered substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax laws that would have affected 22 Table of Contents publicly traded partnerships. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. Although the legislation considered would not have appeared to affect the Partnership’s tax treatment as a partnership, we are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals, will be reconsidered or will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes or differing judicial interpretations of existing laws could negatively impact the value of our investment in the Partnership. New proposed regulations under the Clean Air Act, if implemented, could result in increased compliance costs. In March 2009, the EPA formally proposed new regulations under the CAA to control emissions of hazardous air pollutants from existing stationary reciprocal internal combustion engines. The rule, when finalized by the EPA, may require us to undertake significant expenditures, including expenditures for purchasing and installing emissions control equipment such as oxidation catalysts or non-selective catalytic reduction equipment, imposing more stringent maintenance practices, and implementing additional monitoring practices on a potentially significant percentage of our natural gas compressor engine fleet. At this point, we cannot predict the final regulatory requirements or the cost to comply with such requirements. The comment period on the proposed regulation ended on June 3, 2009, and the EPA has signed a consent decree requiring it to promulgate a final rule no later than August 10, 2010. Under the proposal, compliance will be required by three years from the effective date of the final rule. This proposed rule, when finalized, and any other new regulations requiring the installation of more sophisticated emission control equipment could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to a variety of governmental regulations; failure to comply with these regulations may result in administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures. We are subject to a variety of U.S. federal, state, local and international laws and regulations relating to the environment, health and safety, export controls, currency exchange, labor and employment and taxation. These laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including assessment of monetary penalties, imposition of remedial requirements and issuance of injunctions as to future compliance. From time to time, as part of our operations, including newly acquired operations, we may be subject to compliance audits by regulatory authorities in the various countries in which we operate. Environmental laws and regulations may, in certain circumstances, impose strict liability for environmental contamination, which may render us liable for remediation costs, natural resource damages and other damages as a result of our conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred or the conduct of, or conditions caused by, prior owners or operators or other third parties. In addition, where contamination may be present, it is not uncommon for neighboring land owners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury, property damage and recovery of response costs. Remediation costs and other damages arising as a result of environmental laws and regulations, and costs associated with new information, changes in existing environmental laws and regulations or the adoption of new environmental laws and regulations could be substantial and could negatively impact our financial condition or results of operations. We may need to apply for or amend facility permits or licenses from time to time with respect to storm water or wastewater discharges, waste handling, or air emissions relating to manufacturing activities or equipment operations, which subjects us to new or revised permitting conditions that may be onerous or costly to comply with. In addition, certain of our customer service arrangements may require us to operate, on behalf of a specific customer, petroleum storage units such as underground tanks or pipelines and other regulated units, all of which may impose additional compliance and permitting obligations. We conduct operations at numerous facilities in a wide variety of locations across the continental U.S. and internationally. The operations at many of these facilities require environmental permits or other authorizations. Additionally, natural gas compressors at many of our customers’ facilities require individual air permits or general authorizations to operate under various air regulatory programs established by rule or 23 Table of Contents regulation. These permits and authorizations frequently contain numerous compliance requirements, including monitoring and reporting obligations and operational restrictions, such as emission limits. Given the large number of facilities in which we operate, and the numerous environmental permits and other authorizations that are applicable to our operations, we may occasionally identify or be notified of technical violations of certain requirements existing in various permits or other authorizations. Occasionally, we have been assessed penalties for our non-compliance, and we could be subject to such penalties in the future. We routinely deal with natural gas, oil and other petroleum products. Hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances or wastes may have been disposed or released on, under or from properties used by us to provide contract operations services or inactive compression storage or on or under other locations where such substances or wastes have been taken for disposal. These properties may be subject to investigatory, remediation and monitoring requirements under environmental laws and regulations. The modification or interpretation of existing environmental laws or regulations, the more vigorous enforcement of existing environmental laws or regulations, or the adoption of new environmental laws or regulations may also negatively impact oil and natural gas exploration and production, gathering and pipeline companies, which in turn could have a negative impact on us. Climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives could result in increased compliance costs. The U.S. Congress is considering new legislation to restrict or regulate emissions of greenhouse gases, such as carbon dioxide and methane, that are understood to contribute to global warming. For example, the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009 could, if enacted by the full Congress, require greenhouse gas emissions reductions by covered sources of as much as 17% from 2005 levels by 2020 and by as much as 83% by 2050. In addition, almost half of the states, either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, have begun to address greenhouse gas emissions, primarily through the planned development of emission inventories or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. Although most of the state-level initiatives have to date been focused on large sources of greenhouse gas emissions, such as electric power plants, it is possible that smaller sources such as our gas-fired compressors could become subject to greenhouse gas-related regulation. Depending on the particular program, we could be required to control emissions or to purchase and surrender allowances for greenhouse gas emissions resulting from our operations. Also, as a result of the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision on April 2, 2007 in Massachusetts, et al. v. EPA, the EPA may regulate greenhouse gas emissions from mobile sources such as new motor vehicles, even if Congress does not adopt new legislation specifically addressing emissions of greenhouse gases. The Court held in Massachusetts v. EPA that greenhouse gases including carbon dioxide fall under the CAA’s definition of “air pollutant.” In July 2008, on the basis of this decision, the EPA released an “Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking” regarding possible future regulation of greenhouse gas emissions under the CAA. In the notice, the EPA evaluated the potential regulation of greenhouse gases under several different provisions of the CAA, but did not propose any specific new regulatory requirements for greenhouse gases. The notice and three other recent regulatory developments, described below, along with recent statements by the Administrator of the EPA, suggest that the EPA is beginning to pursue a path toward the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions under its existing CAA authority. First, in September 2009, the EPA adopted a new rule requiring approximately 13,000 facilities comprising a substantial percentage of annual U.S. greenhouse gas emissions to inventory their emissions starting in 2010 and to report those emissions to the EPA beginning in 2011. That rule, at least for now, does not apply to oil and gas systems. Second, on December 15, 2009, the EPA officially published its finalized determination that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases present an endangerment to human health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings by the EPA pave the way for the agency to adopt and implement regulations that would restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the CAA. Third, the EPA in late September 2009 proposed a rule that would provide for the tailored application of the agency’s major air permitting programs to facilities that annually emit over 25,000 tons of greenhouse gases, such as large industrial facilities of the type covered by the inventory rule described above. 24 Table of Contents Although it is not currently possible to predict how any such proposed or future greenhouse gas legislation or regulation by Congress, the states or multi-state regions will impact our business, any legislation or regulation of greenhouse gas emissions that may be imposed in areas in which we conduct business could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions or reduced demand for our products and services, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The price of our common stock may be volatile. Some of the factors that could affect the price of our common stock are quarterly increases or decreases in revenue or earnings, changes in revenue or earnings estimates by the investment community and speculation in the press or investment community about our financial condition or results of operations. General market conditions and North America or international economic factors and political events unrelated to our performance may also affect our stock price. In addition, the price of our common stock may be impacted by changes in the value of our investment in the Partnership. For these reasons, investors should not rely on recent trends in the price of our common stock to predict the future price of our common stock or our financial results. We may not be able to consummate additional contributions or sales of portions of our U.S. contract operations business to the Partnership. As part of our business strategy, we intend to contribute or sell the remainder of our U.S. contract operations business to the Partnership, over time, but we are under no obligation to do so. Likewise, the Partnership is under no obligation to purchase any additional portions of that business. The consummation of any future sales of additional portions of that business and the timing of such sales will depend upon, among other things: • our reaching agreement with the Partnership regarding the terms of such sales, which will require the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of the Partnership’s general partner, which is comprised exclusively of directors who are deemed independent from us; • the Partnership’s ability to finance such purchases on acceptable terms, which could be impacted by general equity and debt market conditions as well as conditions in the markets specific to master limited partnerships; and • the Partnership’s and our compliance with our respective debt agreements. The Partnership intends to fund its future acquisitions from us with external sources of capital, including additional borrowings under its credit facilities and/or public or private offerings of equity or debt. As a result of the economic slowdown and the availability of equity and debt capital, the Partnership’s ability to fund future acquisitions of our U.S. contract operations business may be limited. If we are unable to consummate additional contributions or sales of our U.S. contract operations business to the Partnership, we may not be able to capitalize on what we believe is the Partnership’s lower cost of capital over time, which could impact our competitive position in the U.S. Additionally, without the proceeds from future contributions or sales of our U.S. contract operations business to the Partnership, we will have less capital to invest to grow our business. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would result in the purchase of our stockholders’ shares of common stock at a premium to the market price or would otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. There are provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would result in the purchase of our stockholders’ shares of common stock at a premium to the market price or would otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. For example, our restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. If our board of directors elects to issue preferred stock, it 25 Table of Contents could be more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In addition, provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, such as limitations on stockholder actions by written consent and on stockholder proposals at meetings of stockholders, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. Delaware corporation law may also discourage takeover attempts that have not been approved by the board of directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 26 Table of Contents 