Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a number of important risks and uncertainties. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe that the following information identifies all known material risk factors relating to our business. Any of these risks may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Business Our business has been and may continue to be hurt by an economic downturn, a decline in construction or industrial or non-construction activities, or a decline in the amount of equipment that is rented. Weakness in construction or industrial or non-construction activity, or a decline in the desirability of renting equipment, may decrease the demand for our equipment or depress the prices we charge for our products and services. In addition, an economic downturn in those regions where we have significant operations could disproportionately harm our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have identified below certain factors which may cause weakness, either temporary or long-term, in the construction and industrial or non-construction, sectors: • weakness or a downturn in the overall economy, including the onset of, or prolonged exposure to, a recession; • reduced access to capital markets for our customers’ funding of projects due to a weakness or downturn in the overall economy or otherwise; • a decrease in expected levels of infrastructure spending, including lower than expected government funding for economic stimulus; • an increase in the cost of construction materials; • an increase in interest rates; • adverse weather conditions or natural disasters, including an active hurricane season in the Gulf of Mexico region, where we have a large concentration of customers; or • terrorism or hostilities involving the United States or Canada. A weakness in the construction and industrial or non-construction sectors caused by these or other factors would harm our revenues, financial condition, profitability and cash flows as well as our ability to service debt, and may reduce residual values realized on the disposition of our rental equipment, negatively impacting our borrowing availability. We face intense competition that may lead to our inability to increase or maintain our prices, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. The equipment rental industry is highly competitive and highly fragmented. Many of the markets in which we operate are served by numerous competitors, ranging from national equipment rental companies like ourselves, to smaller multi-regional companies and small, independent businesses with a limited number of locations. We also may compete with dealers who both sell and rent equipment directly to customers and the open market for used equipment. Some of our principal competitors are less leveraged than we are, have greater financial resources, may be more geographically diversified, may have greater name recognition than we do and may be better able to withstand adverse market conditions within the industry. We generally compete on the basis of, among other things, quality and breadth of service, expertise, reliability, price and the size, mix and relative attractiveness of our rental equipment fleet, which is significantly affected by the level of our capital expenditures. If we are required to reduce or delay capital expenditures for any reason, including due to restrictions contained in the New Senior ABL Revolving Facility, or the indentures governing our Notes, the resulting aging of our rental equipment fleet may cause us to lose our competitive advantage and adversely 12 Table of Contents impact our pricing. In addition, our competitors are competing aggressively on the basis of pricing and may continue to drive prices further down. To the extent that we choose to match our competitors’ downward pricing, it could harm our results of operations. To the extent that we choose not to match or remain within a reasonable competitive distance from our competitors’ pricing, it could also harm our results of operations, as we may lose customers and rental volume. We may also encounter increased competition from existing competitors or new market entrants in the future, which could harm our revenues, financial condition, profitability and cash flows as well as our ability to service debt. Our revenues and operating results may fluctuate and unexpected or sustained periods of decline have had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our revenues and operating results have varied historically from period to period and may continue to do so. We have identified below certain factors which may cause our revenues and operating results to vary: • downturn in the North American economy, including the reduced access to capital markets for our customers’ funding of projects, or reduced government funding for infrastructure and other construction, any sustained periods of inflation or deflation, and the resulting negative impact it has on the financial strength of our customers or the cost of equipment that we purchase from our vendors; • changes in demand for our equipment or the prices we charge due to changes in economic conditions, competition or other factors; • the timing of expenditures for new equipment and the disposal of used equipment, including the ability to effectively and efficiently reduce our fleet size by selling in the open market for used equipment; • changes in the interest rates applicable to our variable rate debt; • general economic conditions in the markets where we operate; • the cyclical nature of our customers’ businesses, particularly those operating in the construction and industrial or non-construction sectors; • rental rate and fleet size changes in response to competitive factors; • our inability to maintain our price levels during long-term periods of economic decline; • bankruptcy or insolvency of our competitors leading to a larger than expected amount of used equipment in the open market; • bankruptcy or insolvency of our customers, thereby reducing demand for used rental equipment; • reduction in the demand for used equipment may result in lower sales prices and volume for used equipment sales; • aging of our fleet, ultimately resulting in lower sales prices and volume for used equipment sales; • seasonal rental patterns, with rental activity tending to be lowest in the winter; • severe weather and seismic conditions temporarily affecting the regions where we operate; • downturn in oil and petrochemical-related sectors from which we derive a large share of our industrial revenue; • timing of acquisitions of companies and new location openings and related costs; • labor shortages, work stoppages or other labor difficulties; • other cost fluctuations, such as costs for employee-related compensation and healthcare benefits; 13 Table of Contents • disruptions of fuel supplies or increases in fuel prices; • enactment of and compliance with new regulations affecting our operations; • possible unrecorded liabilities of acquired companies; • our effectiveness in identifying and integrating acquired businesses and new locations into our existing operations; • our pending merger with URI; and • possible write-offs or exceptional charges due to changes in applicable accounting standards, goodwill impairment, impairment of obsolete or damaged equipment or other assets, or the refinancing of our existing debt. One or a number of these factors could harm our revenues, financial condition, profitability and cash flows, as well as our ability to service debt, and may reduce residual values realized on the disposition of our rental equipment, negatively impacting our borrowing availability. The construction market is currently experiencing a downturn which, if sustained, could harm our business, liquidity and results of operations. Our business derives a material portion of its revenues from customers in the construction market and the general slowdown and volatility of the U.S. economy is having an adverse effect on this business. From time to time, our business that serves the construction industry has also been adversely affected in various parts of the country by declines in construction starts due to, among other things, changes in tax laws affecting the real estate industry, high interest rates and reduced level of residential construction activity. Continued weakness in the U.S. economy and general uncertainty about current economic conditions will continue to pose a risk to our business as participants in this industry may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which would have a continued material negative effect on the demand for our products. Our reliance on available borrowings under the New Senior ABL Revolving Facility and cash from operating activities is necessary to operate our business and subjects us to a number of risks, many of which are beyond our control. We rely significantly on available borrowings under the New Senior ABL Revolving Facility to operate our business. As of December 31, 2011, we had $628.1 million of available borrowings under the New Senior ABL Revolving Facility. The amount of available borrowings under the New Senior ABL Revolving Facility is determined by a formula, subject to maximum borrowings, that includes several factors, most significant of which is the orderly liquidation value (“OLV”), of our rental fleet. The OLV of our fleet is calculated by a third party and reflects the average of prices paid for used rental equipment at retail and auction. If our OLV were to decrease significantly, or if our access to such financing were unavailable, reduced, or were to become significantly more expensive for any reason, including, without limitation, due to our inability to meet the coverage ratio or leverage ratio tests in the New Senior ABL Revolving Facility, if such compliance was required, or to satisfy any other condition in the facilities or due to an increase in interest rates generally, we may not be able to fund daily operations which may cause material harm to our business, which could affect our ability to operate our business as a going concern. In addition, if any of our lenders experience difficulties that render them unable to fund future draws on the New Senior ABL Revolving Facility, we may not be able to access all or a portion of these funds, which could have similar adverse consequences. In addition, if we are unable to generate excess cash from operating activities after servicing our debt due to negative economic or industry trends including, among others, those set forth above under “— Our business has been and may continue to be hurt by an economic downturn, a decline in construction or industrial or non-construction, activities or a decline in the amount of equipment that is rented” and “— We face intense 14 Table of Contents competition that may lead to our inability to increase or maintain our prices, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations,” and we are not able to finance new equipment acquisitions, we may not be able to make necessary equipment rental acquisitions at all. The effects of the recent economic crisis have had and may continue to have a negative impact on our revenue, operating results, or financial condition. The recent economic crisis has caused disruptions and extreme volatility in financial markets, increased rates of default and bankruptcy, and has reduced demand for equipment rental. These macroeconomic developments have had and could continue to have a negative impact on our revenue, profitability, financial condition and liquidity in a number of ways, such as reduced used equipment demand which in turn could have a negative impact on the OLV for our rental equipment fleet. Additionally, current or potential customers may delay or decrease equipment rentals or may delay paying us or be unable to pay us for prior equipment rentals and services. Also, if the banking system or the financial markets deteriorate further, fail to improve or remain volatile, the funding for and realization of capital projects may continue to decrease, which may continue to impact the demand for our rental equipment and services. Our expenses could increase and our relationships with our customers could be hurt if there is an adverse change in our relationships with our equipment suppliers or if our suppliers are unable to provide us with products we rely on to generate revenues. All of our rental equipment consists of products that we purchase from various suppliers and manufacturers, and over the last several years, we have reduced the number of suppliers from which we purchase rental equipment to approximately two suppliers for almost all the major equipment categories that we offer for rent. We rely on these suppliers and manufacturers to provide us with equipment which we then rent to our customers. We have not entered into any long-term equipment supply arrangements with manufacturers. To the extent we are unable to rely on these suppliers and manufacturers, due to an adverse change in our relationships with them, if they fail to continue operating as a going concern due to the current economic environment or otherwise, if they significantly raised their costs, if a large amount of our rental equipment is subject to simultaneous recalls that would prevent us from renting such rental equipment for a significant period of time, or such suppliers or manufacturers simply are unable to supply us with equipment or needed replacement parts in a timely manner, our business could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting potential inability to service our customers. We may experience delays in receiving equipment from some manufacturers due to factors beyond our control, including raw material shortages, and, to the extent that we experience any such delays, our business could be hurt by the resulting inability to service our customers and harm to our reputation. In addition, the payment terms we have negotiated with the suppliers that provide us with the majority of our equipment may not be available to us at a later time. If we are unable to collect on contracts with customers, our operating results would be adversely affected. One of the reasons some of our customers find it more attractive to rent equipment than own equipment is the need to deploy their capital elsewhere. Some of our customers may have liquidity issues and ultimately may not be able to fulfill the terms of their rental agreements with us. If we are unable to manage credit risk issues adequately, or if a large number of customers should have financial difficulties at the same time, our credit losses could increase above historical levels and our operating results would be adversely affected. Further, delinquencies and credit losses generally can be expected to increase during economic slowdowns or recessions. If our operating costs increase as our rental equipment fleet ages and we are unable to pass along such costs, our earnings will decrease. As our fleet of rental equipment ages, the cost of maintaining such equipment, if not replaced within a certain period of time, will likely increase. As of December 31, 2011, the average age of our rental equipment 15 Table of Contents fleet was approximately 42 months, down two months from 44 months at December 31, 2010. Rental fleet purchases, which totaled $616.2 million in the year ended December 31, 2011, were at a pace sufficient to slightly reduce the overall fleet age. The costs of maintenance may materially increase in the future. Any material increase in such costs could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profitability and financial condition. Our operational measures designed to increase revenue while continuing to control operating costs may not generate the improvements and efficiencies we expect. We have responded to the economic slowdown by employing a number of operational measures designed to increase revenue while continuing to pursue our strategy of reducing operating costs where available. The extent to which these strategies will achieve the desired goals and efficiencies in 2012 and beyond is uncertain, as their success depends on a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. Even if we carry out these measures in the manner we currently expect, we may not achieve the improvements or efficiencies we anticipate, or on the timetable we anticipate. There may be unforeseen productivity, revenue or other consequences resulting from our strategies that will adversely affect us. Therefore, there can be no guarantee that our strategies will prove effective in achieving desired profitability or margins. The cost of new equipment we use in our rental equipment fleet could increase and therefore we may spend more for replacement equipment, and in some cases we may not be able to procure equipment on a timely basis due to supplier constraints. The cost of new equipment used in our rental equipment fleet could increase, primarily due to factors beyond our control, such as inflation, complying with governmental regulations, higher interest rates, increased material costs, including increases in the cost of steel, which is a primary material used in most of the equipment we use, and increases in the cost of fuel, which is used in the manufacturing process and in delivering equipment to us. Such increases could materially adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations in future periods. In addition, based on changing demands of our customers, the types of equipment we rent to our customers may become obsolete resulting in a negative impact to our financial condition based on the increased capital expenditures required to replace the obsolete equipment, and our potential inability to sell the obsolete equipment in the used equipment market. An impairment of our goodwill could have a material non-cash adverse impact on our results of operations. We review goodwill for impairment at least annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. We have performed our annual impairment tests for goodwill during the fourth quarter of 2011 and based on our analyses, there was no goodwill impairment recognized during 2011. If we make changes in our business strategy or if external conditions adversely affect our business operations, we may be required to record an impairment charge for goodwill in the future, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our rental equipment fleet is subject to residual value risk upon disposition. The market value of any given piece of rental equipment could be less than its depreciated value at the time it is sold. The market value of used rental equipment depends on several factors, including: • the market price for new equipment of a like kind; • wear and tear on the equipment relative to its age and the performance of preventive maintenance; • the existence and capacities of different sales outlets; • the time of year that it is sold; • the age of the equipment at the time it is sold; 16 Table of Contents • worldwide and domestic demand for used equipment, including the amount of used equipment we, along with our competitors, supply to the used equipment market; and • general economic conditions. We include in income from operations the difference between the sales price and the depreciated value of an item of equipment sold. Changes in our assumptions regarding depreciation could change our depreciation expense as well as the gain or loss realized upon disposal of equipment. Sales of our used rental equipment at prices that fall significantly below our projections, or our inability to sell such equipment at all, could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Disruptions in our information technology systems could limit our ability to effectively monitor and control our operations and adversely affect our operating results. Our information technology systems facilitate our ability to monitor and control our operations and adjust to changing market conditions. Any disruptions in these systems or the failure of these systems to operate as expected could, depending on the magnitude of the problem, materially adversely affect our financial condition or operating results by limiting our capacity to effectively monitor and control our operations and adjust to changing market conditions in a timely manner. In addition, because our systems contain information about individuals and businesses, our failure to maintain the security of the data we hold, whether the result of our own error or the malfeasance or errors of others, could harm our reputation or give rise to legal liabilities leading to lower revenues, increased costs and other potential material adverse effects on our results of operations. Our business relies to some extent on third-party contractors to provide us with various services to assist us with conducting our business, which could adversely affect our business upon the termination or disruption of our third-party contractor relationships. Our operations rely on third-party contractors to provide us with timely services to assist us with conducting our business. Any material disruption, termination, or substandard provision of these services could adversely affect our brand, customer relationships, operating results and financial condition. In addition, if a third-party contractor relationship is terminated, we may be adversely affected if we are not able to enter into a similar agreement with an alternate provider in a timely manner or on terms that we consider favorable. Further, in the event a third-party relationship is terminated and we are unable to enter into a similar relationship, we may not have the internal capabilities to perform such services in a cost-effective manner. Oak Hill or its affiliates may compete directly against us. Corporate opportunities may arise in the area of potential competitive business activities that may be attractive to us as well as to Oak Hill or its affiliates, including through potential acquisitions by Oak Hill or its affiliates of competing businesses. Competition could intensify if an affiliate or subsidiary of Oak Hill were to enter into or acquire a business similar to our equipment rental operations. Oak Hill and its affiliates may be inclined to direct relevant corporate opportunities to entities which they control individually rather than to us. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that Oak Hill is under no obligation to communicate or offer any corporate opportunity to us, even if such opportunity might reasonably have been expected to be of interest to us or our subsidiaries. Acquisition related activities could disrupt our business or have an adverse effect on our results of operations. From time to time we may consider pursuing mergers or acquisitions, which may be significant. Any future material merger or acquisition would involve numerous risks including, without limitation: • potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management, including the failure to pursue other beneficial opportunities; 17 Table of Contents • difficulty integrating the acquired business; • availability of borrowed funds or common stock with sufficient market price to complete the acquisition; • ability to obtain any requisite government or regulatory approvals; • potential diversion of management and employee attrition, during the period prior to the completion of a potential merger or acquisition, and the potential effect on our business and relations with customers, service providers and other stakeholders, whether or not the potential merger or acquisition is completed; • restrictions on the conduct of business prior to the completion of a proposed merger or acquisition, which may delay or prevent the undertaking of various business opportunities that may arise pending completion of the potential merger or acquisition; • failure to achieve anticipated synergies, economies of scale and cost reductions within an expected time period; • contractual restrictions that limit our ability to pursue alternative opportunities; • damage to reputation and goodwill and payment of applicable termination fees and expenses due to failure to consummate a proposed merger or acquisition; • potential for lawsuits and adverse judgments that may prevent a proposed merger or acquisition from becoming effective or becoming effective within the expected timeframe; and • exposure to unknown, unexpected or unrecorded liabilities. If we make acquisitions in the future, acquisition-related accounting charges may affect our balance sheet and results of operations. In addition, the financing of any significant merger or acquisition may result in changes in our capital structure, including the incurrence of additional indebtedness. We may not be successful in addressing these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with any mergers or acquisitions. For risk factors specifically related to the Merger, see “Risks Related to the Merger”. If we fail to retain or attract key management and personnel, we may be unable to implement our business plan. One of the most important factors in our ability to profitably execute our business plan is our ability to attract, develop and retain qualified personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer and operational management. Our success in attracting and retaining qualified people is dependent on the resources available in individual geographic areas and the impact on the labor supply due to general economic conditions as well as our ability to provide a competitive compensation package, including the implementation of adequate drivers of retention and rewards based on performance, and work environment. The departure of any key personnel and our inability to enforce non-competition agreements could have a negative impact on our business. The impairment of financial institutions may adversely affect us. We have exposure to counterparties with which we execute transactions, including U.S. and foreign commercial banks, insurance companies, investment banks, investment funds and other financial institutions, some of which may be exposed to bankruptcy, liquidity, default or similar risks, especially in connection with recent financial market turmoil. Many of these transactions could expose us to risk in the event of the bankruptcy, receivership, default or similar event involving a counterparty. For example, as of December 31, 2011, we had $628.1 million of available borrowings under the New Senior ABL Revolving Facility. If any of the lenders that are parties to the New Senior ABL Revolving Facility experience difficulties that render them unable to fund future draws on the facility, we may not be able to access all or a portion of these funds. The 18 Table of Contents inability to make future draws on the New Senior ABL Revolving Facility or any new revolving facilities could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity which could negatively affect our business, results of operations or ability to maintain the overall quality of our rental equipment fleet. We are exposed to various possible claims relating to our business and our insurance may not fully protect us against those claims. We are exposed to various possible claims relating to our business. These possible claims include those relating to (1) personal injury or death caused by equipment rented or sold by us, (2) motor vehicle accidents involving our vehicles and our employees, (3) employment-related claims, (4) property damage and pollution related claims, and (5) commercial claims. Our insurance policies have deductibles or self-insured retentions of $1.0 million for general liability and $1.5 million for automobile liability, on a per occurrence basis; $0.5 million per occurrence for workers’ compensation claims; and $0.25 million per occurrence for pollution coverage. Currently, we believe that we have adequate insurance coverage for the protection of our assets and operations. However, litigation is inherently unpredictable, and the outcome of some of these claims, proceedings and other contingencies could require us to take or refrain from taking actions which could adversely affect our operations or could result in large verdicts. Additionally, defending against claims, lawsuits and proceedings may involve significant expense and diversion of management’s attention and resources from other matters. Our insurance may not fully protect us for certain types of claims, such as claims for punitive damages or for damages arising from intentional misconduct, which are often alleged in third party lawsuits. In addition, we may be exposed to uninsured liability at levels in excess of our policy limits. We establish and regularly evaluate our loss reserves to address claims, or portions thereof, not covered by our insurance policies. If we are found liable for any significant claims that exceed our loss reserves or are not covered by insurance, our liquidity and operating results could be materially adversely affected. It is possible that our insurance carrier may disclaim coverage for any class action and derivative lawsuits against us. It is also possible that some or all of the insurance that is currently available to us will not be available in the future on economically reasonable terms or not available at all. In addition, whether we are covered by insurance or not, certain claims may have the potential for negative publicity surrounding such claims, which could adversely affect our business and lead to lower revenues, as well as additional similar claims being filed. We may be unable to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting and comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other related provisions of the U.S. securities laws. We are required to file certain reports, including annual and quarterly periodic reports, under the Exchange Act. The SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring every reporting company to include a management report on such company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. An independent registered public accounting firm must report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Compliance with the reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws places additional burdens on our management, operational and financial resources and systems. To the extent that we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and/or disclosure controls and procedures, we may be unable to produce reliable financial reports and/or public disclosure, detect and prevent fraud and comply with the reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws, on a timely basis. Any such failure could harm our business or result in the violation of the reporting covenant in the indentures governing the Notes and the New Senior ABL Revolving Facility. In addition, failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and/or disclosure controls and procedures could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and public disclosure and a loss of customers, which in turn could harm our business. 19 Table of Contents Environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and requirements and the costs of complying with them, or any liability or obligation imposed under them, could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flow. Our operations are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. These laws regulate releases of petroleum products and other hazardous substances into the environment, the storage, treatment, transport and disposal of wastes, and the remediation of soil and groundwater contamination. These laws also regulate our ownership and operation of tanks used for the storage of petroleum products and other regulated substances. In addition, certain of our customers require us to maintain certain safety levels. Failure to maintain such levels could lead to a loss of such customers. We have made, and will continue to make, expenditures to comply with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including, among others, expenditures for the investigation and cleanup of contamination at or emanating from currently and formerly owned and leased properties, as well as contamination at other locations at which our wastes have reportedly been identified. Some of these laws impose strict and in certain circumstances joint and several liability on current and former owners or operators of contaminated sites and other potentially responsible parties for investigation, remediation and other costs. In addition, as climate change issues have become more prevalent, federal, state and local governments, as well as foreign governments, have begun to respond to these issues with increased legislation and regulations. Such legislation and regulations could negatively affect us, our suppliers and our customers. This may cause us to incur additional direct costs in complying with any new environmental legislation or regulations, as well as increased indirect costs resulting from our suppliers, customers, or both incurring additional compliance costs that could get passed through to us. Compliance with existing or future environmental, health and safety requirements may require material expenditures by us or otherwise harm our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flow. Our costs of doing business could increase as a result of changes in federal, state, provincial or local regulations. Our operations are principally affected by various statutes, regulations and laws in the U.S. states and Canadian provinces in which we operate. While we are not engaged in a “regulated” industry, we are subject to various laws applicable to businesses generally, including laws affecting land usage, zoning, transportation, information security and privacy, labor and employment practices, competition, immigration and other matters. In addition, certain new or proposed regulations with respect to the banking and finance industries, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and amendments to Regulation AB, could restrict our access to certain financing arrangements and increase our financing costs, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. Further, we may be indirectly exposed to changes in regulations which affect our customers. Changes in federal, state, provincial or local regulations governing our business could increase our costs of doing business. Moreover, changes to federal, state, provincial and local tax regulations could increase our costs of doing business. We cannot provide assurance that we will not incur material costs or liabilities in connection with regulatory requirements. We cannot predict whether future developments in law and regulations concerning our businesses will affect our business financial condition and results of operations in a negative manner. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights that are material to our business. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part upon protection of our rights in trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property rights we own or license, including proprietary software. Our use of contractual provisions, confidentiality procedures and agreements, and trademark, copyright, unfair competition, trade secret 20 Table of Contents and other laws to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights may not be adequate. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and protect our proprietary information, or to defend against claims by third parties that our services or our use of intellectual property infringe their intellectual property rights. Any litigation or claims brought by or against us could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. A successful claim of patent, trademark, copyright or other intellectual property infringement against us could prevent us from providing services, which could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, a breakdown in our internal policies and procedures may lead to an unintentional disclosure of our proprietary, confidential or material non-public information, which could in turn harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Certain existing stockholders of RSC Holdings have significant control over our company and large ownership positions that could be sold, transferred or distributed. Oak Hill and RSC Holdings are the current parties to an Amended and Restated Stockholders Agreement dated October 6, 2011 (the “Stockholders Agreement”), pursuant to which Oak Hill currently has the right to nominate three members of RSC Holdings’ Board of Directors. As of December 31, 2011, Oak Hill owned 33.4% of the outstanding shares of our common stock and may exercise control over matters requiring stockholder approval of our policies and affairs. Due to the Stockholders Agreement, Oak Hill has significant influence with respect to: (1) the election of RSC Holdings’ Board of Directors; (2) the approval or disapproval of any other matters requiring stockholder approval; and (3) the affairs, policies and direction of our business. The interests of RSC Holdings’ existing stockholders may conflict with the interests of other security holders. In addition, actual or possible sales, transfers or distributions of substantial amounts of our common stock by Oak Hill, or the perception of the forgoing by investors, may cause the trading price of our common stock to decline and could adversely affect our ability to obtain financing in the future. We face risks related to changes in our ownership. Certain of our agreements with third parties, including our real property leases, require the consent of such parties in connection with any change in ownership of us. We will generally seek such consents and waivers; although we may not seek certain consents if our not obtaining them will not, in our view, have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. If we fail to obtain any required consent or waiver, the applicable third parties could seek to terminate their agreement with us and, as a result, our ability to conduct our business could be impaired until we are able to enter into replacement agreements, which could harm our results of operations or financial condition. Risks Related to the Merger Failure to consummate the Merger could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Merger is subject to many conditions which must be satisfied or waived in order to complete the Merger, including, but not limited to, receipt of the requisite RSC Holdings and URI stockholder approvals and receipt of the necessary regulatory consents (including anti-trust) and approvals. Although we expect, as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, to consummate the Merger, it is possible that the Merger may not occur. If the Merger is not completed for any reason, the price of our common stock may decline to the extent that the market price of our common stock reflects positive market assumptions that the Merger will be completed or based on the market’s perception as to why the Merger was not completed. In addition, if the Merger is not consummated a comparable transaction may not occur in the future. We may also be subject to additional risks if the Merger is not completed, including: • under certain circumstances specified in the Merger Agreement, we may be required to pay URI a termination fee of $60 million or reimburse the expenses of URI up to a maximum of $20 million; 21 Table of Contents • substantial costs related to the Merger, such as legal, accounting, filing, financial advisory and financial printing fees may not be recovered; and • potential disruption to our business and distraction of our workforce and management team. There can be no assurance that the conditions to closing of the Merger will be satisfied or waived or that the Merger will be completed. Whether or not the Merger is consummated, the announcement and pendency of the transaction creates uncertainty and could impact or cause disruption in our business and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. While the Merger is pending the attention of our management may be directed towards the completion of the Merger and may be diverted from the day to day business operations of RSC. In addition, uncertainty about the effects of the Merger on employees and members may have an adverse effect on us. Although we are taking steps to reduce any adverse effects, these uncertainties may impair their ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the transaction is completed and for a period of time thereafter. Additionally, the uncertainty could cause our customers, suppliers, partners and others that deal with us to defer entering into contracts with us or making other decisions concerning RSC or seek to change or cancel existing business relationships with us. The uncertainty and difficulty of integration in the combined company could also cause our key employees to lose motivation or leave their employment. The Merger Agreement also restricts us from taking certain actions (including, among others, making certain acquisitions, amending organizational documents, making, declaring or paying certain dividends, entering into certain material contracts and incurring certain indebtedness) until the Merger is completed or the Merger Agreement is terminated. These restrictions may prevent us from pursuing otherwise attractive business opportunities and making other changes to our business in response to events or circumstances that may arise prior to the completion of the Merger. We may also become subject to lawsuits and adverse judgments related to the Merger, causing disruption in our business. The Merger is subject to the receipt of consents and clearances from regulatory authorities that may impose conditions that could have an adverse effect on us or that could delay or, if not obtained, could prevent completion of the Merger. Under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, and the Competition Act (Canada), the Merger cannot be completed until each of URI and RSC Holdings has made the required notifications and given certain information and materials to the Federal Trade Commission and/or the Department of Justice in the United States and the Commissioner of Competition in Canada and the specified waiting periods have expired or been terminated. Although each of URI and RSC Holdings has agreed in the Merger Agreement to use its reasonable best efforts to obtain the requisite governmental approvals, the necessary approvals may not be obtained, and there may be adverse consequences to our business resulting from the failure to obtain these regulatory approvals or from conditions that could be imposed in connection with obtaining these approvals, including divestitures or other operating restrictions upon RSC Holdings and its subsidiaries. The Merger Agreement limits RSC’s ability to pursue alternatives to the Merger. Under the Merger Agreement, RSC Holdings has agreed that it will not solicit, initiate or knowingly encourage any inquiries or proposals, engage in, continue or otherwise participate in any discussions or negotiations, or provide to any person any non-public information or data, in each case regarding any “acquisition proposal” (as defined in the Merger Agreement) or otherwise knowingly facilitate any effort or attempt to make such an acquisition proposal. These restrictions are, however, subject to certain limited exceptions. Additionally, RSC Holdings is subject to such “no-shop” provisions until the earlier of (i) the 22 Table of Contents effective time of the Merger and (ii) the termination of the Merger Agreement in accordance with its terms. Furthermore, under specified circumstances, RSC Holdings or URI may be required to pay a termination fee of $60 million to the other party if the Merger is not completed, including in the event RSC Holdings or URI breaches its “no-shop” provisions in any material respect or terminates the Merger Agreement to accept a “superior proposal” (as defined in the Merger Agreement). RSC Holdings or URI may also be required to reimburse the other party for its expenses, up to a maximum amount of $20 million under certain circumstances, in the event its stockholders do not approve the adoption of the Merger Agreement. These provisions may discourage a potential competing acquiror that might have an interest in acquiring all or a significant part of RSC Holdings from considering or proposing that acquisition even if it were prepared to pay consideration with a higher price per share than that to be paid in the Merger, or may result in a potential competing acquiror proposing to pay a lower per share price to acquire RSC Holdings than it might otherwise have proposed to pay. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness We have substantial debt, which could adversely affect our financial condition, our ability to obtain financing in the future and our ability to react to changes in our business and make payments on our indebtedness. We have a substantial amount of debt. As of December 31, 2011, we had $2,322.3 million of debt outstanding. Our substantial debt could have important consequences. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations to the holders of our Notes and to the lenders under our New Senior ABL Revolving Facility, resulting in possible defaults on and acceleration of such debt; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make payments on our debt, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including interest rate fluctuations, because a portion of our borrowings, including under the New Senior ABL Revolving Facility, bears interest at variable rates; • cause credit rating agencies to lower our credit ratings, which would increase our cost of borrowing and could adversely affect our access to capital markets; • place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors with proportionately less debt or comparable debt at more favorable interest rates; • limit our ability to refinance our existing indebtedness on favorable terms or at all or borrow additional funds in the future for, among other things, working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or debt service requirements; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changing conditions in our business and industry; and • limit our ability to react to competitive pressures, or make it difficult for us to carry out capital spending that is necessary or important to our growth strategy and our efforts to improve operating margins. Any of the foregoing impacts of our substantial indebtedness could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents Despite our current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional debt, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our current substantial debt. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of the instruments governing our indebtedness do not prohibit us or fully prohibit us or our subsidiaries from doing so. As of December 31, 2011, our New Senior ABL Revolving Facility provided us commitments for additional aggregate borrowings of approximately $1,210.0 million subject to, among other things, our maintenance of a sufficient borrowing base under such facility. The New Senior ABL Revolving Facility permits additional borrowings beyond the committed financing under such facility under certain circumstances. If new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face would increase. In addition, the instruments governing our indebtedness do not prevent us or our subsidiaries from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness. Restrictive covenants in certain of the agreements and instruments governing our indebtedness may adversely affect our financial and operational flexibility. The New Senior ABL Revolving Facility contains covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness or provide guarantees; • engage in mergers, acquisitions or dispositions of assets; • enter into sale-leaseback transactions; • make dividends or other restricted payments; • prepay other indebtedness; • engage in certain transactions with affiliates; • make investments; • change the nature of our business; • incur liens; • enter into currency, commodity and other hedging transactions; and • amend specified debt agreements. In addition, under the New Senior ABL Revolving Facility, we will become subject to additional borrowing base reporting requirements upon excess availability falling below $100.0 million. In addition, we will come under close supervision by our lenders and we will then be subject to financial covenants, including covenants that will obligate us to maintain (1) a specified leverage ratio of 5.00 to 1.00, and (2) a specified fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.00 to 1.00 upon excess availability falling below the greater of $125.0 million and 12.5% of the sum of the total commitments under the New Senior ABL Revolving Facility. Our ability to comply with these covenants in future periods and our available borrowing capacity under the New Senior ABL Revolving Facility will depend on our ongoing financial and operating performance, which in turn will be subject to economic conditions and to financial, market and competitive factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our ability to comply with these covenants in future periods will also depend substantially on the pricing of our products and services, our success at implementing cost reduction initiatives and our ability to successfully implement our overall business strategy. Each of the Notes’ indentures contains restrictive covenants that, among other things, limit our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to: • incur additional debt; • pay dividends or distributions on their capital stock or repurchase their capital stock; 24 Table of Contents • make certain investments; • create liens on their assets to secure debt; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; • create limitations on the ability of the restricted subsidiaries to make dividends or distributions to their respective parents; • merge or consolidate with another company; and • transfer and sell assets. These covenants could have a material adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition or other corporate opportunities and to fund our operations. Also, although the Notes’ indentures limit our ability to make restricted payments, these restrictions are subject to significant exceptions and qualifications. The breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default under either the New Senior ABL Revolving Facility or such indentures that would permit the applicable lenders or noteholders, as the case may be, to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. In any such case, we may be unable to make borrowings under the New Senior ABL Revolving Facility and may not be able to repay the amounts due under the New Senior ABL Revolving Facility and the Notes. Any of the events described in this paragraph could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could cause us to become bankrupt or insolvent. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to make payments on all of our debt, and our ability to refinance all or a portion of our debt or obtain additional financing depends on many factors beyond our control. As a result, we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under such indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our obligations under, our debt, will depend on our financial and operating performance, which, in turn, will be subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to financial and business factors, many of which may be beyond our control. We may not maintain a level of cash flow from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek to obtain additional equity capital or restructure our debt. In the future, our cash flow and capital resources may not be sufficient for payments of interest on and principal of our debt, and such alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing, particularly because of our anticipated high levels of debt and the debt incurrence restrictions imposed by the agreements governing our debt, as well as prevailing market conditions. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. The instruments governing our indebtedness, restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from any such dispositions. We may not be able to consummate those sales, or if we do, the timing of any such sales may not be advantageous to us and the proceeds that we realize may not be adequate to meet debt service obligations when due. 25 Table of Contents A significant portion of our outstanding indebtedness is secured by substantially all of our consolidated assets. As a result of these security interests, such assets would only be available to satisfy claims of our general creditors or to holders of our equity securities if we were to become insolvent to the extent the value of such assets exceeded the amount of our indebtedness and other obligations. In addition, the existence of these security interests may adversely affect our financial flexibility. Indebtedness under the New Senior ABL Revolving Facility and the 2017 Notes are secured by a lien on substantially all our assets, including pledges of substantially all of the assets of RSC Holdings III, LLC, which consist primarily of the capital stock of RSC and, in the case of the New Senior ABL Revolving Facility, pledges of substantially all of the assets of RSC Holdings II, LLC, which consist primarily of the capital stock of RSC Holdings III, LLC. The 2014 Notes, the 2019 Notes and the 2021 Notes are unsecured and therefore do not have the benefit of such collateral. Accordingly, if an event of default were to occur under the New Senior ABL Revolving Facility or the 2017 Notes, the senior secured lenders under such facility or the holders of the 2017 Notes would have a prior right to our assets, to the exclusion of our general creditors, including the holders of our 2014 Notes, 2019 Notes and 2021 Notes. In that event, our assets would first be used to repay in full all indebtedness and other obligations secured by them (including all amounts outstanding under the New Senior ABL Revolving Facility and the 2017 Notes), resulting in all or a portion of our assets being unavailable to satisfy the claims of our unsecured indebtedness. As of December 31, 2011, substantially all of our consolidated assets, including our equipment rental fleet, had been pledged for the benefit of the lenders under our New Senior ABL Revolving Facility and the holders of the 2017 Notes. As a result, the lenders under such facility and the holders of the 2017 Notes would have a prior claim on such assets in the event of our bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation or reorganization, and we may not have sufficient funds to pay all of our creditors and holders of our unsecured indebtedness may receive less, ratably, than the holders of our secured debt, and may not be fully paid, or may not be paid at all, even when other creditors receive full payment for their claims. In that event, holders of our equity securities would not be entitled to receive any of our assets or the proceeds therefrom. In addition, the pledge of these assets and other restrictions may limit our flexibility in raising capital for other purposes. Because substantially all of our assets are pledged under these financing arrangements, our ability to incur additional secured indebtedness or to sell or dispose of assets to raise capital may be impaired, which could have an adverse effect on our financial flexibility. An increase in interest rates would increase the cost of servicing our indebtedness and could reduce our profitability. Indebtedness we have and may incur under the New Senior ABL Revolving Facility bears interest at variable rates. As a result, an increase in interest rates, whether because of an increase in market interest rates or an increase in our own cost of borrowing, would increase the cost of servicing our indebtedness and could materially reduce our profitability. In addition, recent turmoil in the credit markets has reduced the availability of debt financing, which may result in increases in the interest rates and borrowing spreads at which lenders are willing to make future debt financing available to us. The impact of such an increase would be more significant than it would be for some other companies because of our substantial indebtedness. Risks Related to our Common Stock and Market and Economic Factors Our share price may decline due to the large number of shares eligible for future sale. Sales, transfers, or distributions of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the possibility of such by Oak Hill, directors, or executive officers or other large stock holders, may adversely affect the price of our common stock and impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of equity securities. As of December 31, 2011, Oak Hill owned 33.4% of our common stock. Because of our public float and average volume, any sales, transfers or distributions, by Oak Hill or the perception of the forgoing by investors, may cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. In addition we may issue additional shares of common or 26 Table of Contents preferred stock as part of any acquisition we may complete in the future. If issued pursuant to an effective registration statement, the shares will be freely tradable after their issuance by persons not affiliated with us or the acquired companies. RSC Holdings is a holding company, with no operations of its own, that depends on its subsidiaries for cash. The operations of RSC Holdings are conducted almost entirely through its subsidiaries and its ability to generate cash to meet its future debt service obligations or to pay dividends is highly dependent on the earnings and the receipt of funds from its subsidiaries via dividends or intercompany loans. However, none of the subsidiaries of RSC Holdings is obligated to make funds available to RSC Holdings for the payment of dividends. In addition, payments of dividends and interest among the companies in our group may be subject to withholding taxes. Further, the indentures governing the Notes and the New Senior ABL Revolving Facility significantly restrict the ability of the subsidiaries of RSC Holdings to pay dividends or otherwise transfer assets to RSC Holdings. See “Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our Indebtedness — Restrictive covenants in certain of the agreements and instruments governing our indebtedness may adversely affect our financial and operational flexibility.” In addition, Delaware law may impose requirements that may restrict our ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock. Our operating and financial performance in any given period might not meet the guidance we may have provided to the public. We may provide public guidance on our expected operating and financial results for future periods. Although we believe that this guidance provides investors and analysts with a better understanding of management’s expectations for the future, and is useful to our stockholders and potential stockholders, such guidance is comprised of forward-looking statements subject to the risks and uncertainties described in this report and in our other public filings and public statements. Actual results may differ from the projected guidance we may provide. If in the future, our operating or financial results for a particular period do not meet the guidance we may provide, or the expectations of investment analysts, or if we reduce our guidance for future periods, the market price of our common stock could significantly decline. Fluctuations in the stock market, as well as general economic and market conditions may impact our operations, sales, financial results and market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations in response to operating results and other factors including, but not limited to: • general economic changes, including rising interest rates, increased fuel costs and other energy costs; • increased labor and healthcare costs, and increased levels of unemployment; • variations in quarterly operating results; • changes in the strategy and actions taken by our competitors, including pricing changes; • securities analysts’ elections to discontinue coverage of our common stock, changes in financial estimates by analysts or a downgrade of our stock or our sector by analysts; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, mergers, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • loss of a large customer or supplier; • future sales of our common stock; • investor perceptions of us and the equipment rental industry; 27 Table of Contents • our ability to successfully integrate acquisitions and consolidations; and • national or regional catastrophes or circumstances and natural disasters, hostilities and acts of terrorism. These broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions, including but not limited to those listed above, may depress the market price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and Delaware law may discourage takeovers and business combinations that our stockholders might consider in their best interests. A number of provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may have the effect of delaying, deterring, preventing or rendering more difficult a change in control of RSC Holdings that our stockholders might consider in their best interests. These provisions include: • establishment of a classified Board of Directors, with staggered terms; • granting to the Board of Directors sole power to set the number of directors and to fill any vacancy on the Board of Directors, whether such vacancy occurs as a result of an increase in the number of directors or otherwise; • limitations on the ability of stockholders to remove directors; • the ability of the Board of Directors to designate and issue one or more series of preferred stock without stockholder approval, the terms of which may be determined at the sole discretion of the Board of Directors; • prohibition on stockholders from calling special meetings of stockholders; • establishment of advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations for election to the Board of Directors at stockholder meetings; and • prohibiting our stockholders from acting by written consent. These provisions may prevent our stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. In addition, we have opted out of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which would have otherwise imposed additional requirements regarding mergers and other business combinations. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may also make it difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions may facilitate management entrenchment that may delay, deter, render more difficult or prevent a change in our control, which may not be in the best interests of our stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 