Item 1A. Risk Factors As described in Part I (“Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements”), this report contains forward-looking statements regarding us, our business and our industry. The risk factors described below, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be negatively impacted. A sustained reduction in demand for oil or natural gas or prices for those commodities, or instability in the North America or global energy markets, could adversely affect our business. Our results of operations depend upon the level of activity in the global energy market, including natural gas development, production, processing and transportation. Oil and natural gas prices and the level of drilling and exploration activity can be volatile. For example, oil and natural gas exploration and development activity and the number of well completions typically decline when there is a sustained reduction in oil or natural gas prices or significant instability in energy markets. Even the perception of longer-term lower oil or natural gas prices by oil and natural gas exploration, development and production companies can result in their decision to cancel, reduce or postpone major expenditures or to reduce or shut in well production. Recently, natural gas prices in North America have fallen to the lowest levels seen in nearly a decade. As a result of this substantial reduction in commodity prices, certain companies have announced a reduction in their natural gas drilling and production activities, particularly in dry gas areas. If the current price levels for natural gas continue, the level of production activity and the demand for our contract operations services and oil and natural gas production and processing equipment could decrease, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A reduction in demand for our products and services could also force us to reduce our pricing substantially. Additionally, in North America, compression services for our customers’ production from unconventional natural gas sources constitute an increasing percentage of our business. Some of these unconventional sources are less economic to produce in lower natural gas price environments. Further, some of these unconventional sources may not require as much compression or require compression as early in the production life-cycle of an unconventional field or well as has been experienced historically in conventional and other unconventional natural gas sources. These factors could in turn negatively impact the demand for our products and services. A sustained decrease in demand for oil or natural gas or prices for those commodities, or instability in the North America or global energy markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we review our long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. A decline in demand for oil and natural gas or prices for those commodities, or instability in the North America or global energy markets could cause a reduction in demand for our products and services and result in a reduction of our estimates of future cash flows and growth rates in our business. These events could cause us to record additional impairments of long-lived assets. For example, during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2009, we recorded goodwill impairments of $196.8 million and $150.8 million, respectively; and during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and, 2009, we recorded long-lived asset impairments of $7.0 million, $146.9 million and $97.0 million, respectively. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we recorded a $136.0 million impairment for idle units we retired from our fleet and expect to sell. Selling these compressor units is expected to take several years and, if we are not able to sell these units for the amount we estimated in our impairment analysis, we could be required to record an additional impairment. The impairment of our intangible assets or other long-lived assets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 18 Table of Contents We have a substantial amount of debt that could limit our ability to fund future growth and operations and increase our exposure to risk during adverse economic conditions. At December 31, 2011, we had approximately $1.8 billion in outstanding debt obligations. Many factors, including factors beyond our control, may affect our ability to make payments on our outstanding indebtedness. These factors include those discussed elsewhere in these Risk Factors and those listed in the Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements section included in Part I of this report. Our substantial debt and associated commitments could have important adverse consequences. For example, these commitments could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our contractual obligations; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our ability to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other corporate requirements; • increase our vulnerability to interest rate fluctuations because the interest payments on a portion of our debt are based upon variable interest rates and a portion can adjust based upon our credit statistics; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; • place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or less restrictive covenants in such debt; and • limit our ability to refinance our debt in the future or borrow additional funds. Covenants in our debt agreements may impair our ability to operate our business. Our senior secured credit facility credit agreement contains various covenants with which we or certain of our subsidiaries must comply, including, but not limited to, restrictions on the use of proceeds from borrowings and limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, enter into transactions with affiliates, merge or consolidate, sell assets, make certain investments and acquisitions, make loans, grant liens, repurchase equity and pay dividends and distributions. We are also subject to financial covenants, including a ratio of Adjusted EBITDA (as defined in the credit agreement) to Total Interest Expense (as defined in the credit agreement) of not less than 2.25 to 1.0, a ratio of consolidated Total Debt (as defined in the credit agreement) to Adjusted EBITDA of not greater than 5.0 to 1.0 and a ratio of Senior Secured Debt (as defined in the credit agreement) to Adjusted EBITDA of not greater than 4.0 to 1.0. As of December 31, 2011, we maintained a 4.3 to 1.0 Adjusted EBITDA to Total Interest Expense ratio, a 4.3 to 1.0 consolidated Total Debt to Adjusted EBITDA ratio and a 1.5 to 1.0 Senior Secured Debt to Adjusted EBITDA ratio. As of December 31, 2011, we were in compliance with all financial covenants under our debt agreements. If we fail to remain in compliance with our financial covenants we would be in default under our debt agreements. In addition, if we were to experience a material adverse effect on our assets, liabilities, financial condition, business or operations that, taken as a whole, impacts our ability to perform our obligations under our debt agreements, this could lead to a default under our debt agreements. At December 31, 2011, we had undrawn capacity of $449.9 million under our revolving credit facility. Our senior secured credit agreement limits our Total Debt (as defined in the credit agreement) to Adjusted EBITDA ratio of not greater than 5.0 to 1.0. Due to this limitation, $190.3 million of the $449.9 million of undrawn capacity under our revolving credit facility was available for additional borrowings as of December 31, 2011. The Partnership’s senior secured credit agreement (the “Partnership Credit Agreement”) contains various covenants with which the Partnership must comply, including, but not limited to, restrictions on the use of proceeds from borrowings and limitations on its ability to incur additional indebtedness, enter into transactions 19 Table of Contents with affiliates, merge or consolidate, sell assets, make certain investments and acquisitions, make loans, grant liens, repurchase equity and pay dividends and distributions. It also contains various covenants requiring mandatory prepayments of the term loans from the net cash proceeds of certain future asset transfers and debt issuances. The Partnership must maintain various consolidated financial ratios, including a ratio of EBITDA (as defined in the Partnership Credit Agreement) to Total Interest Expense (as defined in the Partnership Credit Agreement) of not less than 3.0 to 1.0 (which will decrease to 2.75 to 1.0 following the occurrence of certain events specified in the Partnership Credit Agreement) and a ratio of Total Debt (as defined in the Partnership Credit Agreement) to EBITDA of not greater than 4.75 to 1.0. The Partnership Credit Agreement allows for the Partnership’s Total Debt to EBITDA ratio to be increased from 4.75 to 1.0 to 5.25 to 1.0 during a quarter when an acquisition meeting certain thresholds is completed and for the following two quarters after such an acquisition closes. The Partnership completed an acquisition from us meeting these thresholds in the second quarter of 2011; therefore, the Partnership’s Total Debt to EBITDA ratio was temporarily increased from 4.75 to 1.0 to 5.25 to 1.0 through December 31, 2011, reverting to 4.75 to 1.0 for the quarter ending March 31, 2012 and subsequent quarters. As of December 31, 2011, the Partnership maintained a 7.3 to 1.0 EBITDA to Total Interest Expense ratio and a 3.7 to 1.0 Total Debt to EBITDA ratio. The breach of any of our covenants could result in a default under one or more of our debt agreements, which could cause our indebtedness under those agreements to become due and payable. In addition, a default under one or more of our debt agreements, including a default by the Partnership under its credit facility, would trigger cross-default provisions under certain of our debt agreements, which would accelerate our obligation to repay our indebtedness under those agreements. If the repayment obligations on any of our indebtedness were to be so accelerated, we may not be able to repay the debt or refinance the debt on acceptable terms, and our financial position would be materially adversely affected. Failure to timely and cost-effectively execute on larger projects could adversely affect our business. Over the past several years, the size and scope of some of our contracts with our customers has increased. This increase in size and scope can translate into more technically challenging conditions or performance specifications for our products and services. Contracts with our customers generally specify delivery dates, performance criteria and penalties for our failure to perform. Any failure to execute such larger projects in a timely and cost effective manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may incur losses on fixed-price contracts, which constitute a significant portion of our fabrication business. In connection with projects covered by fixed-price contracts, we generally bear the risk of cost over-runs, operating cost inflation, labor availability and productivity, and supplier and subcontractor pricing and performance unless they result from customer-requested change orders. Under both our fixed-price contracts and our cost-reimbursable contracts, we may rely on third parties for many support services, and we could be subject to liability for their failures. For example, we have experienced losses on certain large fabrication projects that have negatively impacted our fabrication results. Any failure to accurately estimate our costs and the time required for a fixed-price fabrication project could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The erosion of the financial condition of our customers could adversely affect our business. Many of our customers finance their exploration and development activities through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. During times when the oil or natural gas markets weaken, our customers are more likely to experience a downturn in their financial condition. A reduction in borrowing bases under reserve-based credit facilities and the lack of availability of debt or equity financing could result in a reduction in our customers’ spending for our products and services. For example, our customers could seek to preserve capital by canceling month-to-month contracts, canceling or delaying scheduled maintenance of their 20 Table of Contents existing natural gas compression and oil and natural gas production and processing equipment or determining not to enter into any new natural gas compression service contracts or purchase new compression and oil and natural gas production and processing equipment, thereby reducing demand for our products and services. Reduced demand for our products and services could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, in the event of the financial failure of a customer, we could experience a loss on all or a portion of our outstanding accounts receivable associated with that customer. There are many risks associated with conducting operations in international markets. We operate in many countries outside the U.S., and these activities accounted for a substantial amount of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2011. We are exposed to risks inherent in doing business in each of the countries in which we operate. Our operations are subject to various risks unique to each country that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For example, as discussed in Note 2 to the Financial Statements, in 2009 the Venezuelan state-owned oil company, Petroleos de Venezuela S.A. (“PDVSA”), assumed control over substantially all of our assets and operations in Venezuela. The risks inherent in our international business activities include the following: • difficulties in managing international operations, including our ability to timely and cost effectively execute projects; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, laws or policies by foreign agencies or governments; • work stoppages; • training and retaining qualified personnel in international markets; • the burden of complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws and regulations; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • actions by governments or national oil companies that result in the nullification or renegotiation on less than favorable terms of existing contracts, or otherwise result in the deprivation of contractual rights, and other difficulties in enforcing contractual obligations; • governmental actions that result in restricting the movement of property or that impede our ability to import or export parts or equipment; • foreign currency exchange rate risks, including the risk of currency devaluations by foreign governments; • difficulty in collecting international accounts receivable; • potentially longer receipt of payment cycles; • changes in political and economic conditions in the countries in which we operate, including general political unrest, the nationalization of energy related assets, civil uprisings, riots, kidnappings, violence associated with drug cartels and terrorist acts; • potentially adverse tax consequences or tax law changes; • currency controls or restrictions on repatriation of earnings; • expropriation, confiscation or nationalization of property without fair compensation; 21 Table of Contents • the risk that our international customers may have reduced access to credit because of higher interest rates, reduced bank lending or a deterioration in our customers’ or their lenders’ financial condition; • complications associated with installing, operating and repairing equipment in remote locations; • limitations on insurance coverage; • inflation; • the geographic, time zone, language and cultural differences among personnel in different areas of the world; and • difficulties in establishing new international offices and the risks inherent in establishing new relationships in foreign countries. In addition, we may plan to expand our business in international markets where we have not previously conducted business. The risks inherent in establishing new business ventures, especially in international markets where local customs, laws and business procedures present special challenges, may affect our ability to be successful in these ventures or avoid losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. Our international operations require us to comply with a number of U.S. and international laws and regulations, including those involving anti-bribery and anti-corruption. For example, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and similar international laws and regulations prohibit improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. The scope and enforcement of anti-corruption laws and regulations may vary. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Our training and compliance program and our internal control policies and procedures may not always protect us from reckless or negligent acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our business and operations. We may be subject to competitive disadvantages to the extent that our competitors are able to secure business, licenses or other preferential treatment by making payments to government officials and others in positions of influence or using other methods that are prohibited by U.S. and international laws and regulations. To effectively compete in some foreign jurisdictions, we utilize local agents. Although we have procedures and controls in place to monitor internal and external compliance, if we are found to be liable for FCPA or other anti-bribery law violations (either due to our own acts or our inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others, including actions taken by our agents), we could suffer from severe civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are exposed to exchange rate fluctuations in the international markets in which we operate. A decrease in the value of any of these currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could reduce profits from international operations and the value of our international net assets. We operate in many international countries. We anticipate that there will be instances in which costs and revenues will not be exactly matched with respect to currency denomination. We generally do not hedge exchange rate exposures, which exposes us to the risk of exchange rate losses. Gains and losses from the 22 Table of Contents remeasurement of assets and liabilities that are receivable or payable in currency other than our subsidiaries’ functional currency are included in our consolidated statements of operations. In addition, currency fluctuations cause the U.S. dollar value of our international results of operations and net assets to vary with exchange rate fluctuations. This could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, fluctuations in currencies relative to currencies in which the earnings are generated may make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of our reported results of operations. For example, other (income) expense, net for the year ended December 31, 2011 includes a foreign currency loss of $17.1 million compared to a gain of $5.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. To the extent we expand geographically, we expect that increasing portions of our revenues, costs, assets and liabilities will be subject to fluctuations in foreign currency valuations. We may experience economic loss and a negative impact on earnings or net assets solely as a result of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Further, the markets in which we operate could restrict the removal or conversion of the local or foreign currency, resulting in our inability to hedge against these risks. We depend on distributions from our subsidiaries, including the Partnership, to meet our capital needs. To generate the funds necessary to meet our obligations and fund our business, we depend on the cash flows and distributions from our operating subsidiaries, including cash distributions from the Partnership to us attributable to our ownership interest in the Partnership. Applicable law and contractual restrictions (including restrictions in the Partnership’s debt instruments and partnership agreement) may negatively impact our ability to obtain such distributions from our subsidiaries, including the rights of the creditors of the Partnership that would often be superior to our interests in the Partnership. Furthermore, a decline in the Partnership’s revenues or increases in its expenses, principal and interest payments under existing and future debt instruments, working capital requirements or other cash needs would limit the amount of cash the Partnership has available to distribute to its equity holders, including us, which would reduce the amount of cash available for payment of our debt and to fund our business requirements, and as a result could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be vulnerable to interest rate increases due to our floating rate debt obligations. As of December 31, 2011, after taking into consideration interest rate swaps, we had approximately $264.0 million of outstanding indebtedness that was effectively subject to floating interest rates. Changes in economic conditions outside of our control could result in higher interest rates, thereby increasing our interest expense and reducing the funds available for capital investment, operations or other purposes. A 1% increase in the effective interest rate on our outstanding debt subject to floating interest rates would result in an annual increase in our interest expense of approximately $2.6 million. Many of our North America contract operations services contracts have short initial terms, and we cannot be sure that such contracts will be renewed after the end of the initial contractual term. The length of our contract operations services contracts with customers varies based on operating conditions and customer needs. In North America, our initial contract terms typically are not long enough to enable us to fully recoup the cost of the equipment we utilize to provide contract operations services. We cannot be sure that a substantial number of these customers will continue to renew their contracts, that we will be able to enter into new contract operations services contracts with customers or that any renewals will be at comparable rates. The inability to renew a substantial portion of our North America contract operations services contracts at comparable service rates or at all would lead to a reduction in revenues and net income and could require us to record additional asset impairments. 23 Table of Contents Many of our international contract operations services contracts are long-term, substantial contracts and the termination of any of such contracts could have a material impact on our business. Our international contract operations services contracts are typically longer-term contracts for more comprehensive projects than our North America contract operations services contracts. As a result, the termination of any such contract may lead to a reduction in our revenues and net income, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We depend on particular suppliers and are vulnerable to product shortages and price increases. Some of the components used in our products are obtained from a single source or a limited group of suppliers. Our reliance on these suppliers involves several risks, including price increases, inferior component quality and a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components in a timely manner. The partial or complete loss of certain of these sources could have a negative impact on our results of operations and could damage our customer relationships. Further, a significant increase in the price of one or more of these components could have a negative impact on our results of operations. We face significant competitive pressures that may cause us to lose market share and harm our financial performance. Our industry is highly competitive and there are low barriers to entry, especially in North America. We expect to experience competition from companies that may be able to adapt more quickly to technological changes within our industry and throughout the economy as a whole, more readily take advantage of acquisitions and other opportunities and adopt more aggressive pricing policies. Our ability to renew or replace existing contract operations service contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenue and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of our competitors. If our competitors substantially increase the resources they devote to the development and marketing of competitive products or services or substantially decrease the price at which they offer their products or services, we may not be able to compete effectively. Some of these competitors may expand or fabricate new compression units that would create additional competition for the services we currently provide to our customers. In addition, our other lines of business could face significant competition. We also may not be able to take advantage of certain opportunities or make certain investments because of our significant leverage and our other obligations. Any of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operations entail inherent risks that may result in substantial liability. We do not insure against all potential losses and could be seriously harmed by unexpected liabilities. Our operations entail inherent risks, including equipment defects, malfunctions and failures and natural disasters, which could result in uncontrollable flows of natural gas or well fluids, fires and explosions. These risks may expose us, as an equipment operator and fabricator, to liability for personal injury, wrongful death, property damage, pollution and other environmental damage. The insurance we carry against many of these risks may not be adequate to cover our claims or losses. We currently have a minimal amount of insurance on our offshore assets. In addition, we are substantially self-insured for worker’s compensation, employer’s liability, property, auto liability, general liability and employee group health claims in view of the relatively high per-incident deductibles we absorb under our insurance arrangements for these risks. Further, insurance covering the risks we expect to face or in the amounts we desire may not be available in the future or, if available, the premiums may not be commercially justifiable. If we were to incur substantial liability and such damages were not covered by insurance or were in excess of policy limits, or if we were to incur liability at a time when we were not able to obtain liability insurance, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted. 24 Table of Contents Threats of cyber attacks or terrorism could affect our business. We may be threatened by problems such as cyber attacks, computer viruses or terrorism that may disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. Our industry requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. Despite our implementation of security measures, our technology systems are vulnerable to disability or failures due to hacking, viruses, acts of war or terrorism and other causes. If our information technology systems were to fail and we were unable to recover in a timely way, we might be unable to fulfill critical business functions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, our assets may be targets of terrorist activities that could disrupt our ability to service our customers. We may be required by our regulators or by the future terrorist threat environment to make investments in security that we cannot currently predict. The implementation of security guidelines and measures and maintenance of insurance, to the extent available, addressing such activities could increase costs. These types of events could materially adversely affect our business and operating results. In addition, these types of events could require significant management attention and resources, and could adversely affect our reputation among customers and the public. The tax treatment of the Partnership depends on its status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, as well as it not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. The Partnership could lose its status as a partnership for a number of reasons, including not having enough “qualifying income.” If the Internal Revenue Service treats the Partnership as a corporation or if the Partnership becomes subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, it would substantially reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to the Partnership’s unitholders and undermine the cost of capital advantage we believe the Partnership has. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in the Partnership’s common units depends largely on it being treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The Partnership has not received a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) on this or any other tax matter affecting it. Despite the fact that the Partnership is a limited partnership under Delaware law, a publicly traded partnership such as the Partnership will be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes unless 90% or more of its gross income from its business activities are “qualifying income” under Section 7704(d) of the Internal Revenue Code. “Qualifying income” includes income and gains derived from the exploration, development, production, processing, transportation, storage and marketing of natural gas and natural gas products or other passive types of income such as interest and dividends. Although we do not believe based upon its current operations that the Partnership is treated as a corporation, the Partnership could be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject to taxation as an entity if its gross income is not properly classified as qualifying income, there is a change in the Partnership’s business or there is a change in current law. If the Partnership were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, it would pay U.S. federal income tax at the corporate tax rate and would also likely pay state income tax. Treatment of the Partnership as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to its unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of its common units and the amount of distributions that we receive from the Partnership. Current law may change so as to cause the Partnership to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject it to entity-level taxation. In addition, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. The Partnership’s partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects it to taxation 25 Table of Contents as a corporation or otherwise subjects it to entity-level taxation for U.S. federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution levels of the Partnership may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on it at the option of its general partner without the consent of its unitholders. If the Partnership were to be taxed at the entity level, it would lose the comparative cost of capital advantage we believe it has over time as compared to a corporation. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or our investment in the Partnership could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including the Partnership, or our investment in the Partnership may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, judicial interpretations of the U.S. federal income tax laws may have a direct or indirect impact on the Partnership’s status as a partnership and, in some instances, a court’s conclusions may heighten the risk of a challenge regarding the Partnership’s status as a partnership. Moreover, members of Congress have recently considered substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax laws that would have affected certain publicly traded partnerships. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible to meet the “qualifying income” exception for us to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Although the legislation considered would not have appeared to affect the Partnership’s tax treatment as a partnership, we are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals, will be reconsidered or will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes or differing judicial interpretations of existing laws could negatively impact the value of our investment in the Partnership and the amount of distributions that we receive from the Partnership. Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional delays to our exploration and production customers in drilling and completing natural gas wells, which could adversely affect demand for our contract operations services and production and processing equipment. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that exploration and production operators use to stimulate production of hydrocarbons, particularly natural gas, from dense subsurface rock formations. The process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. The process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions but the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, recently asserted federal regulatory authority under the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act over hydraulic fracturing involving the use of diesel. In addition, legislation has been introduced before Congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing under the Safe Drinking Water Act and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. At the state level, some states have adopted and other states are considering adopting legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure, and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. In the event that new or more stringent federal, state, or local legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where our natural gas exploration and production customers operate, those customers could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements and experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of production or development activities, which could reduce demand for our contract operations services and oil and natural gas production and processing equipment, and as a result could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, certain governmental reviews are either underway or being proposed that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. The White House Council on Environmental Quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices, and a committee of the United States House of Representatives has conducted an investigation of hydraulic fracturing practices. The EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater, with initial results expected to be available by late 2012 and final results by 2014. More recently, the EPA announced plans to develop effluent limitations for the treatment and discharge of wastewater resulting from hydraulic 26 Table of Contents fracturing activities by 2014. Other governmental agencies, including the U.S. Department of Energy and the U.S. Department of the Interior, are evaluating various other aspects of hydraulic fracturing. These ongoing or proposed studies, depending on their degree of pursuit and any meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the federal Safe Drinking Water Act or other regulatory mechanisms, which events could delay or curtail production of natural gas by exploration and production operators, some of which are our customers, and thus reduce demand for our contract operations services and oil and natural gas production and processing equipment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. New regulations, proposed regulations and proposed modifications to existing regulations under the CAA, if implemented, could result in increased compliance costs. On August 20, 2010, the EPA published new regulations under the CAA to control emissions of hazardous air pollutants from existing stationary reciprocal internal combustion engines. The rule will require us to undertake certain expenditures and activities, likely including purchasing and installing emissions control equipment, such as oxidation catalysts or non-selective catalytic reduction equipment, on a portion of our engines located at major sources of hazardous air pollutants and all our engines over a certain size regardless of location, following prescribed maintenance practices for engines (which are consistent with our existing practices), and implementing additional emissions testing and monitoring. On October 19, 2010, we submitted a legal challenge to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit and a Petition for Administrative Reconsideration to the EPA for some monitoring aspects of the rule. The legal challenge has been held in abeyance since December 3, 2010, pending the EPA’s consideration of the Petition for Administrative Reconsideration. On January 5, 2011, the EPA approved the request for reconsideration of the monitoring issues and that reconsideration process is ongoing. At this point, we cannot predict when, how or if an EPA or a court ruling would modify the final rule, and as a result we cannot currently accurately predict the cost to comply with the rule’s requirements. Compliance with the final rule is required by October 2013. In addition, the TCEQ has finalized revisions to certain air permit programs that significantly increase the air permitting requirements for new and certain existing oil and natural gas production and gathering sites for 23 counties in the Barnett Shale production area. The final rule establishes new emissions standards for engines, which could impact the operation of specific categories of engines by requiring the use of alternative engines, compressor packages or the installation of aftermarket emissions control equipment. The rule became effective for the Barnett Shale production area in April 2011, and the lower emissions standards will become applicable between 2015 and 2030 depending on the type of engine and the permitting requirements. Our cost to comply with the revised air permit programs is not expected to be material at this time. Although the TCEQ had previously stated it would consider expanding application of the new air permit program statewide, the Texas Legislature adopted legislation prohibiting such an expansion in the near term, including by preventing the TCEQ from expending funds to extend the rule’s geographic scope prior to August 31, 2013 and prior to conducting and providing to the Texas Legislature an economic impact study regarding any such expansion. At this point, we cannot predict whether or when such a geographic expansion of those rules might occur or the cost to comply with any such requirements. On August 23, 2011, the EPA published proposed regulations focused on reducing the emissions of certain chemicals by the oil and natural gas industry, including volatile organic compounds, sulfur dioxide and certain air toxics. Because, based on our review of the proposed regulations, it appeared our business could be affected by certain portions of those proposed regulations, we submitted comments to the EPA prior to the end of the comment period on November 30, 2011. At this point, however, we cannot predict how or if the EPA will address those comments, what applicable requirements may eventually be adopted with respect to these proposed regulations or the cost to comply with such requirements. These new regulations and proposals, when finalized, and any other new regulations requiring the installation of more sophisticated pollution control equipment or the adoption of other environmental protection measures, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 27 Table of Contents We are subject to a variety of governmental regulations; failure to comply with these regulations may result in administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures. We are subject to a variety of U.S. federal, state, local and international laws and regulations relating to the environment, safety and health, export controls, currency exchange, labor and employment and taxation. Many of these laws and regulations are complex, change frequently, are becoming increasingly stringent, and the cost of compliance with these requirements can be expected to increase over time. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including assessment of monetary penalties, imposition of remedial requirements and issuance of injunctions as to future compliance. From time to time, as part of our operations, including newly acquired operations, we may be subject to compliance audits by regulatory authorities in the various countries in which we operate. Environmental laws and regulations may, in certain circumstances, impose strict liability for environmental contamination, which may render us liable for remediation costs, natural resource damages and other damages as a result of our conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred or the conduct of, or conditions caused by, prior owners or operators or other third parties. In addition, where contamination may be present, it is not uncommon for neighboring land owners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury, property damage and recovery of response costs. Remediation costs and other damages arising as a result of environmental laws and regulations, and costs associated with new information, changes in existing environmental laws and regulations or the adoption of new environmental laws and regulations could be substantial and could negatively impact our financial condition, profitability and results of operations. We may need to apply for or amend facility permits or licenses from time to time with respect to storm water or wastewater discharges, waste handling, or air emissions relating to manufacturing activities or equipment operations, which subjects us to new or revised permitting conditions that may be onerous or costly to comply with. In addition, certain of our customer service arrangements may require us to operate, on behalf of a specific customer, petroleum storage units such as underground tanks or pipelines and other regulated units, all of which may impose additional compliance and permitting obligations. We conduct operations at numerous facilities in a wide variety of locations across the continental U.S. and internationally. The operations at many of these facilities require environmental permits or other authorizations. Additionally, natural gas compressors at many of our customers’ facilities require individual air permits or general authorizations to operate under various air regulatory programs established by rule or regulation. These permits and authorizations frequently contain numerous compliance requirements, including monitoring and reporting obligations and operational restrictions, such as emission limits. Given the large number of facilities in which we operate, and the numerous environmental permits and other authorizations that are applicable to our operations, we may occasionally identify or be notified of technical violations of certain requirements existing in various permits or other authorizations. Occasionally, we have been assessed penalties for our non-compliance, and we could be subject to such penalties in the future. We routinely deal with natural gas, oil and other petroleum products. Hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances or wastes may have been disposed or released on, under or from properties used by us to provide contract operations services or inactive compression storage or on or under other locations where such substances or wastes have been taken for disposal. These properties may be subject to investigatory, remediation and monitoring requirements under environmental laws and regulations. The modification or interpretation of existing environmental laws or regulations, the more vigorous enforcement of existing environmental laws or regulations, or the adoption of new environmental laws or regulations may also negatively impact oil and natural gas exploration and production, gathering and pipeline companies, including our customers, which in turn could have a negative impact on us. 28 Table of Contents Climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives could result in increased compliance costs. The U.S. Congress has considered legislation to restrict or regulate emissions of greenhouse gases, such as carbon dioxide and methane, that are understood to contribute to global warming. One bill, passed by the House of Representatives, if enacted by the full Congress, would have required greenhouse gas emissions reductions by covered sources of as much as 17% from 2005 levels by 2020 and by as much as 83% by 2050. It presently appears unlikely that comprehensive climate legislation will be passed by either house of Congress in the near future, although energy legislation and other initiatives continue to be proposed that may be relevant to greenhouse gas emissions issues. In addition, almost half of the states, either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, have begun to address greenhouse gas emissions, primarily through the planned development of emission inventories or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. Although most of the state-level initiatives have to date been focused on large sources of greenhouse gas emissions, such as electric power plants, it is possible that smaller sources such as our gas-fired compressors could become subject to greenhouse gas-related regulation. Depending on the particular program, we could be required to control emissions or to purchase and surrender allowances for greenhouse gas emissions resulting from our operations. Independent of Congress, the EPA is beginning to adopt regulations controlling greenhouse gas emissions under its existing CAA authority. The EPA has adopted rules requiring many facilities, including petroleum and natural gas systems, to inventory and report their greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, the EPA in June 2010 published a final rule providing for the tailored applicability of air permitting requirements for greenhouse gas emissions. The EPA reported that the rulemaking was necessary because without it certain permitting requirements would apply as of January 2011 at an emissions level that would have greatly increased the number of required permits and, among other things, imposed undue costs on small sources and overwhelmed the resources of permitting authorities. In the rule, the EPA established two initial steps of phase-in to minimize those burdens, excluding certain smaller sources from greenhouse gas permitting until at least April 30, 2016. On January 2, 2011, the first step of the phase-in applied only to new projects at major sources (as defined under those CAA permitting programs) that, among other things, increase net greenhouse gas emissions by 75,000 tons per year. In July 2011, the second step of the phase-in began requiring permitting for otherwise minor sources of air emissions that have the potential to emit at least 100,000 tons per year of greenhouse gases. No later than July 2012, the EPA must complete another rulemaking to determine whether it will expand this permitting program to additional, smaller sources via a third step of phase-in. If the EPA decides to proceed with a “Phase III” expansion of this program, it could first take effect prior to July 1, 2013 and it could require permitting of sources emitting as little as 50,000 tons per year. These rules triggered reporting obligations for one site we operated in 2011, and we anticipate the same obligation in 2012. These rules will also affect some of our and our customers’ largest new or modified facilities going forward. Although it is not currently possible to predict how any proposed or future greenhouse gas legislation or regulation by Congress, the states or multi-state regions will impact our business, any legislation or regulation of greenhouse gas emissions that may be imposed in areas in which we conduct business could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions or reduced demand for our services, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The price of our common stock and the Partnership’s common units may be volatile. Some of the factors that could affect the price of our common stock are quarterly increases or decreases in revenue or earnings, changes in revenue or earnings estimates by the investment community and speculation in the press or investment community about our financial condition or results of operations. General market conditions and North America or international economic factors and political events unrelated to our performance may also affect our stock price. In addition, the price of our common stock may be impacted by changes in the value of our investment in the Partnership. For these reasons, investors should not rely on recent trends in the price of our common stock to predict the future price of our common stock or our financial results. 29 Table of Contents We may not be able to consummate additional contributions or sales of portions of our U.S. contract operations business to the Partnership. As part of our business strategy, we intend to contribute or sell the remainder of our U.S. contract operations business to the Partnership, over time, but we are under no obligation to do so. Likewise, the Partnership is under no obligation to purchase any additional portions of that business. The consummation of any future sales of additional portions of that business and the timing of such sales will depend upon, among other things: • our reaching agreement with the Partnership regarding the terms of such sales, which will require the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of the Partnership’s general partner, which is comprised exclusively of directors who are deemed independent from us; • the Partnership’s ability to finance such purchases on acceptable terms, which could be impacted by general equity and debt market conditions as well as conditions in the markets specific to master limited partnerships; and • the Partnership’s and our compliance with our respective debt agreements. The Partnership intends to fund its future acquisitions from us with external sources of capital, including additional borrowings under its credit facility and/or public or private offerings of equity or debt. If the Partnership is not able to fund future acquisitions of our U.S. contract operations business, or if we are otherwise unable to consummate additional contributions or sales of our U.S. contract operations business to the Partnership, we may not be able to capitalize on what we believe is the Partnership’s lower cost of capital over time, which could impact our competitive position in the U.S. Additionally, without the proceeds from future contributions or sales of our U.S. contract operations business to the Partnership, we will have less capital to invest to grow our business. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would result in the purchase of our stockholders’ shares of common stock at a premium to the market price or would otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. There are provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would result in the purchase of our stockholders’ shares of common stock at a premium to the market price or would otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. For example, our restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. If our board of directors elects to issue preferred stock, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In addition, provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, such as limitations on stockholder actions by written consent and on stockholder proposals at meetings of stockholders, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. Delaware corporation law may also discourage takeover attempts that have not been approved by the board of directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 30 Table of Contents 