Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business is subject to a number of important risks and uncertainties, some of which are described below. Any of these risks may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Business Our business could be hurt by a decline in non-residential construction and industrial activities or a decline in the amount of construction equipment that is rented. As of December 31, 2007, our non-residential construction and industrial customers together accounted for approximately 95% of our rental revenues. A weakness in non-residential construction or industrial activity, or a decline in the desirability of renting equipment, may decrease the demand for our equipment or depress the prices we charge for our products and services. We have identified below certain factors which may cause weakness, either temporary or long-term, in the non-residential construction and industrial sectors: • weakness in the economy or the onset of a recession; • an increase in the cost of construction materials; • an increase in interest rates; • adverse weather conditions or natural disasters; or • terrorism or hostilities involving the United States or Canada. A weakness in the non-residential construction and industrial sectors caused by these or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows and may have a material adverse effect on residual values realized on the disposition of our rental equipment. We face intense competition that may lead to our inability to increase or maintain our prices, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. The equipment rental industry is highly competitive and highly fragmented. Many of the markets in which we operate are served by numerous competitors, ranging from national equipment rental companies, like ourselves, to smaller multi-regional companies and small, independent businesses with a limited number of locations. See “Business — Competition.” Some of our principal competitors are less leveraged than we are, have greater financial resources, may be more geographically diversified, may have greater name recognition than we do and may be better able to withstand adverse market conditions within the industry. We generally compete on the basis of, among other things, quality and breadth of service, expertise, reliability, price and the size, mix and relative attractiveness 11 Table of Contents of our rental equipment fleet, which is significantly affected by the level of our capital expenditures. If we are required to reduce or delay capital expenditures for any reason, including due to restrictions contained in the Senior Credit Facilities, or the indenture governing the Notes, the aging of our rental fleet may place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors and adversely impact our pricing. In addition, our competitors may seek to compete aggressively on the basis of pricing. To the extent that we choose to match our competitors’ downward pricing, it could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. To the extent that we choose not to match or remain within a reasonable competitive distance from our competitors’ pricing, it could also have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, as we may lose rental volume. We may also encounter increased competition from existing competitors or new market entrants in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our revenues and operating results may fluctuate and any unexpected periods of decline could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our revenues and operating results have varied historically from period to period and may continue to do so. We have identified below certain of the factors which may cause our revenues and operating results to vary: • changes in demand for our equipment or the prices we charge due to changes in economic conditions, competition or other factors; • the timing of expenditures for new equipment and the disposal of used equipment; • changes in the interest rates applicable to our variable rate debt; • general economic conditions in the markets where we operate; • the cyclical nature of our customers’ businesses, particularly those operating in the non-residential construction and industrial sectors; • price changes in response to competitive factors; • seasonal rental patterns, with rental activity tending to be lowest in the winter; • timing of acquisitions and new location openings and related costs; • labor shortages, work stoppages or other labor difficulties; • possible unrecorded liabilities of acquired companies; • our effectiveness in integrating acquired businesses and new locations into our existing operations; and • possible write-offs or exceptional charges due to changes in applicable accounting standards, impairment of obsolete or damaged equipment or other assets, or the refinancing of our existing debt. One or a number of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our expenses could increase and our relationships with our customers could be hurt if there is an adverse change in our relationships with our equipment suppliers or if our suppliers are unable to provide us with products we rely on to generate revenues. All of our rental equipment consists of products that we purchase from various suppliers and manufacturers. We rely on these suppliers and manufacturers to provide us with equipment which we then rent to our customers. We have not entered into any long-term equipment supply arrangements with manufacturers. To the extent we are unable to rely on these suppliers and manufacturers, either due to an adverse change in our relationships with them, or if they significantly raised their costs, or such suppliers or manufacturers simply are unable to supply us with equipment in a timely manner, our business could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting potential inability to service our customers. We may experience delays in receiving equipment from some manufacturers due to factors beyond our control, including raw material shortages, and, to the extent that we experience any such delays, our business could be hurt by the resulting inability to service our customers. In 12 Table of Contents addition, while we have negotiated favorable payment terms with the suppliers that provide us with the majority of our equipment, these payment terms may not be available to us at a later time. If our operating costs increase as our rental fleet ages and we are unable to pass along such costs, our earnings will decrease. As our fleet of rental equipment ages, the cost of maintaining such equipment, if not replaced within a certain period of time, will likely increase. The costs of maintenance may materially increase in the future. Any material increase in such costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The cost of new equipment we use in our rental fleet is increasing and therefore we may spend more for replacement equipment, and in some cases we may not be able to procure equipment on a timely basis due to supplier constraints. The cost of new equipment used in our rental fleet increased in 2005, 2006 and 2007. These cost increases are due primarily to increased material costs, including increases in the cost of steel, which is a primary material used in most of the equipment we use, and increases in the cost of fuel, which is used in the manufacturing process and in delivering equipment to us. Although these increases did not have a significant impact on our financial conditions and results of operations in the last fiscal year, these increases could materially adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations in future periods. Our rental fleet is subject to residual value risk upon disposition. The market value of any given piece of rental equipment could be less than its depreciated value at the time it is sold. The market value of used rental equipment depends on several factors, including: • the market price for new equipment of a like kind; • wear and tear on the equipment relative to its age and the performance of preventive maintenance; • the time of year that it is sold; • worldwide and domestic demand for used equipment; and • general economic conditions. We include in income from operations the difference between the sales price and the depreciated value of an item of equipment sold. Changes in our assumptions regarding depreciation could change both our depreciation expense as well as the gain or loss realized upon disposal of equipment. Sales of our used rental equipment at prices that fall significantly below our projections, or our inability to sell such equipment at all, could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Our reliance on available borrowings under our Senior ABL Facilities and cash from operating activities to purchase new equipment subjects us to a number of risks, many of which are beyond our control. We rely significantly on available borrowings under our Senior ABL Facilities to purchase equipment. As of December 31, 2007, we had $474.0 million of available borrowings under the revolving credit portion of our Senior ABL Facilities. If our access to such financing were unavailable, reduced, or were to become significantly more expensive for any reason, including, without limitation, due to our inability to meet the coverage ratio or leverage ratio tests in our Senior ABL Facilities or to satisfy any other condition in the facilities or due to an increase in interest rates generally, we may not be able to finance new equipment acquisitions on favorable terms, or at all. In addition, if we are unable to generate excess cash from operating activities after servicing our debt due to negative economic or industry trends including, among others, those set forth above under “— Our business could be hurt by a decline in non-residential construction and industrial activities or a decline in the amount of construction equipment that is rented” and “— We face intense competition that may lead to downward pricing, or an inability to increase prices, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations,” and we are not able to finance new equipment acquisitions, we may not be able to make necessary equipment rental acquisitions at all. 13 Table of Contents Any failure of ACAB and ACF to indemnify us against and defend us from certain claims in accordance with the terms of the Recapitalization Agreement could have a material adverse effect on us. Pursuant to the Recapitalization Agreement, and subject to certain limitations set forth therein, ACAB and ACF have agreed to indemnify RSC Holdings and its subsidiaries against and defend us from all losses, including costs and reasonable expenses, resulting from certain claims related to the Recapitalization, our business and our former businesses including, without limitation: claims alleging exposure to silica and asbestos; the transfer of certain businesses owned by RSC Holdings but not acquired by the Sponsors in connection with the Recapitalization; certain employee-related matters; any activities, operations or business conducted by RSC Holdings or any of its affiliates other than our business; and certain tax matters. ACAB’s and ACF’s indemnity for claims related to alleged exposure to silica entitles us to coverage for one-half of all silica related losses until the aggregate amount of such losses equals $10 million and to coverage for such losses in excess of $10 million until the aggregate amount of such losses equals $35 million. ACAB’s and ACF’s general indemnity for breach of representations and warranties related to our business covers aggregate losses in excess of $33 million, excluding any individual loss of less than $75,000, and the maximum we can recover is 20% of the recapitalization purchase price set forth in the Recapitalization Agreement, or the Recapitalization Purchase Price, as adjusted in accordance with the Recapitalization Agreement. Furthermore, ACAB and ACF may not have sufficient assets, income and access to financing to enable them to satisfy their indemnification obligations under the Recapitalization Agreement or to continue to honor those obligations. If ACAB or ACF do not satisfy or otherwise honor their obligations, we may be forced to bear the losses described above. Any failure by ACAB or ACF to perform these obligations could have a material adverse effect on us. Disruptions in our information technology systems could limit our ability to effectively monitor and control our operations and adversely affect our operating results. Our information technology systems facilitate our ability to monitor and control our operations and adjust to changing market conditions. Any disruptions in these systems or the failure of these systems to operate as expected could, depending on the magnitude of the problem, materially adversely affect our financial condition or operating results by limiting our capacity to effectively monitor and control our operations and adjust to changing market conditions in a timely manner. In addition, because our systems contain information about individuals and businesses, our failure to maintain the security of the data we hold, whether the result of our own error or the malfeasance or errors of others, could harm our reputation or give rise to legal liabilities leading to lower revenues, increased costs and other material adverse effects on our results of operations. The Sponsors or their affiliates may compete directly against us. Corporate opportunities may arise in the area of potential competitive business activities that may be attractive to us as well as to one or more of the Sponsors or their affiliates, including through potential acquisitions by one or more Sponsors or their affiliates of competing businesses. Any competition could intensify if an affiliate or subsidiary of one or more of the Sponsors were to enter into or acquire a business similar to our equipment rental operations. Given that we are not controlled by any one of the Sponsors, the Sponsors and their affiliates may be inclined to direct relevant corporate opportunities to entities which they control individually rather than to us. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation will provide that the Sponsors are under no obligation to communicate or offer any corporate opportunity to us, even if such opportunity might reasonably have been expected to be of interest to us or our subsidiaries. See Item 13 of this Annual Report entitled “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence” for additional information. ACAB may compete against us in the future. Certain affiliates of ACAB are participants in the equipment rental industry. In addition, following the expiration of a non-compete provision in the Recapitalization Agreement two years following November 27, 2006, or the Recapitalization Closing Date, ACAB and its affiliates will be free to compete with us in the rental equipment industry in the United States and Canada. In addition, nothing in the Recapitalization Agreement prohibits ACAB and its affiliates from (i) conducting (a) any business they conducted immediately prior to closing, including the operation of the Prime Energy division’s oil-free compressor equipment rental and sales business, which was 14 Table of Contents transferred to an affiliate of ACAB, (b) the business of selling, renting (as long as such renting is not in competition with our business) and leasing products they manufacture, or selling used equipment, (c) the rental equipment business outside of the United States and Canada, (ii) investing in or holding not more than 10% of the outstanding capital stock of an entity that competes with us or (iii) acquiring and continuing to own and operate an entity that competes with us, provided the rental revenues of such entity in the United States and Canada account for no more than 20% of such entity’s consolidated revenues at the time of such acquisition. Therefore, notwithstanding the non-compete provision of the Recapitalization Agreement, ACAB and its affiliates may, to the extent described above, compete against us. If we acquire any businesses in the future, they could prove difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, or have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We intend to pursue growth primarily through internal growth, but from time to time we may consider opportunistic acquisitions, which may be significant. Any future acquisition would involve numerous risks including, without limitation: • potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; • difficulty integrating the acquired business; and • exposure to unknown liabilities, including litigation against the companies we may acquire. If we make acquisitions in the future, acquisition-related accounting charges may affect our balance sheet and results of operations. In addition, the financing of any significant acquisition may result in changes in our capital structure, including the incurrence of additional indebtedness. We may not be successful in addressing these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with any acquisitions. If we fail to retain key management and personnel, we may be unable to implement our business plan. One of the most important factors in our ability to profitably execute our business plan is our ability to attract, develop and retain qualified personnel, including our CEO and operational management. Our success in attracting and retaining qualified people is dependent on the resources available in individual geographic areas and the impact on the labor supply due to general economic conditions as well as our ability to provide a competitive compensation package and work environment. We are exposed to various possible claims relating to our business and our insurance may not fully protect us. We are exposed to various possible claims relating to our business. These possible claims include those relating to (1) personal injury or death caused by equipment rented or sold by us, (2) motor vehicle accidents involving our vehicles and our employees, (3) employment-related claims, (4) property damage and pollution related claims and (5) commercial claims. Our insurance policies have deductibles or self-insured retentions of $1 million for general liability and $1.5 million for automobile liability, on a per occurrence basis; $500,000 per occurrence for workers’ compensation claims; and $250,000 per occurrence for pollution coverage. Currently, we believe that we have adequate insurance coverage for the protection of our assets and operations. However, our insurance may not fully protect us for certain types of claims, such as claims for punitive damages or for damages arising from intentional misconduct, which are often alleged in third party lawsuits. In addition, we may be exposed to uninsured liability at levels in excess of our policy limits. If we are found liable for any significant claims that are not covered by insurance, our liquidity and operating results could be materially adversely affected. It is possible that our insurance carrier may disclaim coverage for any class action and derivative lawsuits against us. It is also possible that some or all of the insurance that is currently available to us will not be available in the future on economically reasonable terms or not available at all. 15 Table of Contents We may be unable to establish and/or maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting and comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other related provisions of the U.S. securities laws. We are required to file certain reports, including annual and quarterly periodic reports, under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Commission, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, commencing in our Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2008, an independent registered public accounting firm must report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws placed additional burdens on our management, operational and financial resources and systems. To the extent that we are unable to establish and/or maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and/or disclosure controls and procedures, we may be unable to produce reliable financial reports and/or public disclosure, detect and prevent fraud and comply with our reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws on a timely basis. Any such failure could harm our business. In addition, failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and/or disclosure controls and procedures could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and public disclosure and a loss of customers, which in turn could harm our business. Environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and requirements and the costs of complying with them, or any liability or obligation imposed under them, could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flow. Our operations are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. These laws regulate releases of petroleum products and other hazardous substances into the environment as well as storage, treatment, transport and disposal of wastes, and the remediation of soil and groundwater contamination. In addition, certain of our customers require us to maintain certain safety levels. Failure to maintain such levels could lead to a loss of such customers. These laws also regulate our ownership and operation of tanks used for the storage of petroleum products and other regulated substances. We have made, and will continue to make, expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations, including, among others, expenditures for the investigation and cleanup of contamination at or emanating from, currently and formerly owned and leased properties, as well as contamination at other locations at which our wastes have reportedly been identified. Some of these laws impose strict and in certain circumstances joint and several liability on current and former owners or operators of contaminated sites for costs of investigation and remediation. In addition, as global warming issues become more prevalent, federal, state and local governments, as well as foreign governments, may begin to respond to these issues with increased regulations that could negatively affect us, our suppliers and our customers. This may cause us to incur additional direct costs in complying with any new environmental regulations, as well as increased indirect costs resulting from our suppliers, customers, or both incurring additional compliance costs that could get passed through to us. Compliance with existing or future environmental, health and safety requirements may require material expenditures by us or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flow. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights that are material to our business. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part upon our rights in trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property rights we own or license, including proprietary software. Our use of contractual provisions, confidentiality procedures and agreements, and trademark, copyright, unfair competition, trade secret and other laws to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights may not be adequate. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and protect our proprietary information, or to defend against 16 Table of Contents claims by third parties that our services or our use of intellectual property infringe their intellectual property rights. Any litigation or claims brought by or against us could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. A successful claim of trademark, copyright or other intellectual property infringement against us could prevent us from providing services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Certain of our existing stockholders have significant control. As of December 31, 2007, our Sponsors each beneficially owned approximately 34% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, which results in our being a closely controlled company with the Sponsors having significant influence over: (1) the election of our Board of Directors; (2) the approval or disapproval of any other matters requiring stockholder approval; and (3) the affairs, policy and direction of our business. Ripplewood, Oak Hill, ACF and RSC Holdings are parties to a stockholders agreement, or the Stockholders Agreement, pursuant to which the Sponsors currently have the ability to cause the election of a majority of our Board of Directors. Under the terms of the Amended and Restated Stockholders Agreement, the Sponsors have the right to nominate a majority of the members of our Board of Directors and to exercise control over matters requiring stockholder approval and our policy and affairs, for example, by being able to direct the use of proceeds received from this and future security offerings. In addition, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange rules and, as a result, we currently rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. The concentrated holdings of the Sponsors, certain provisions of the Amended and Restated Stockholders Agreement and the presence of the Sponsors’ nominees on our Board of Directors may result in a delay or the deterrence of possible changes in control of our company, which may reduce the market price of our common stock. The interests of our existing stockholders may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. We face risks related to changes in our ownership. Certain of our agreements with third parties, including our real property leases, require the consent of such parties in connection with any change in ownership of us. We will generally seek such consents and waivers, although we may not seek certain consents if our not obtaining them will not, in our view, have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. If we fail to obtain any required consent or waiver, the applicable third parties could seek to terminate their agreement with us and, as a result, our ability to conduct our business could be impaired until we are able to enter into replacement agreements, resulting in a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness We have substantial debt and may incur substantial additional debt, which could adversely affect our financial condition, our ability to obtain financing in the future and our ability to react to changes in our business. We have a significant amount of debt. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $2,736.2 million of debt outstanding. Our substantial debt could have important consequences. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations to the holders of our Notes and to the lenders under our Senior Credit Facilities, resulting in possible defaults on and acceleration of such indebtedness; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make payments on our debt, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including interest rate fluctuations, because a portion of our borrowings, including under the Senior Credit Facilities, is at variable rates of interest; 17 Table of Contents • place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors with proportionately less debt or comparable debt at more favorable interest rates; • limit our ability to refinance our existing indebtedness or borrow additional funds in the future; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changing conditions in our business and industry; and • limit our ability to react to competitive pressures, or make it difficult for us to carry out capital spending that is necessary or important to our growth strategy and our efforts to improve operating margins. Any of the foregoing impacts of our substantial indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Despite our current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional debt, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of the instruments governing our indebtedness do not prohibit us or fully prohibit us or our subsidiaries from doing so. Our Senior Credit Facilities provided us commitments for additional aggregate borrowings subject to, among other things, our maintenance of a sufficient borrowing base under such facilities. Both the Senior ABL Facilities and the Senior Term Facility permit additional borrowings beyond the committed financing under certain circumstances. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face would increase. In addition, the instruments governing our indebtedness do not prevent us or our subsidiaries from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our debt, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under such indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our obligations under, our debt will depend on our financial and operating performance and that of our subsidiaries, which, in turn, will be subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to the financial and business factors, many of which may be beyond our control. See the table under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Contractual Obligations” for disclosure regarding the amount of cash required to service our debt. We may not maintain a level of cash flow from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek to obtain additional equity capital or restructure our debt. In the future, our cash flow and capital resources may not be sufficient for payments of interest on and principal of our debt, and such alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing, particularly because of our anticipated high levels of debt and the debt incurrence restrictions imposed by the agreements governing our debt, as well as prevailing market conditions. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. The instruments governing our indebtedness restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from any such dispositions. We may not be able to consummate those sales, or if we do, at an opportune timing, or the proceeds that we realize may not be adequate to meet debt service obligations when due. A significant portion of our outstanding indebtedness is secured by substantially all of our consolidated assets. As a result of these security interests, such assets would only be available to satisfy claims of our general creditors or to holders of our equity securities if we were to become insolvent to the extent the value of such assets exceeded the amount of our indebtedness and other obligations. In addition, the existence of these security interests may adversely affect our financial flexibility. Indebtedness under our Senior Credit Facilities is secured by a lien on substantially all our assets. Accordingly, if an event of default were to occur under our Senior Credit Facilities, the senior secured lenders under such 18 Table of Contents facilities would have a prior right to our assets, to the exclusion of our general creditors. In that event, our assets would first be used to repay in full all indebtedness and other obligations secured by them (including all amounts outstanding under our Senior Credit Facilities), resulting in all or a portion of our assets being unavailable to satisfy the claims of our unsecured indebtedness, including our Notes. Only after satisfying the claims of our unsecured creditors and our subsidiaries’ unsecured creditors would any amount be available for our equity holders. As of December 31, 2007, substantially all of our consolidated assets, including our equipment rental fleets, have been pledged for the benefit of the lenders under our Senior Credit Facilities. As a result, the lenders under these facilities would have a prior claim on such assets in the event of our bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation or reorganization, and we may not have sufficient funds to pay all of our creditors. In that event, holders of our equity securities would not be entitled to receive any of our assets or the proceeds there from. As discussed below, the pledge of these assets and other restrictions may limit our flexibility in raising capital for other purposes. Because substantially all of our assets are pledged under these financing arrangements, our ability to incur additional secured indebtedness or to sell or dispose of assets to raise capital may be impaired, which could have an adverse effect on our financial flexibility. Restrictive covenants in certain of the agreements and instruments governing our indebtedness may adversely affect our financial flexibility. Our Senior Credit Facilities contain covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness or provide guarantees; • engage in mergers, acquisitions or dispositions; • enter into sale-leaseback transactions; • make dividends and other restricted payments; • prepay other indebtedness; • engage in certain transactions with affiliates; • make other investments; • change the nature of our business; • incur liens; • take actions other than those enumerated; and • amend specified debt agreements. In addition, under the Senior ABL Facilities, if we fail to maintain a specified minimum level of borrowing capacity, we will then be subject to financial covenants, including covenants that will obligate us to maintain a specified leverage ratio and a specified fixed charges coverage ratio. Our ability to comply with these covenants in future periods will depend on our ongoing financial and operating performance, which in turn will be subject to economic conditions and to financial, market and competitive factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our ability to comply with these covenants in future periods will also depend substantially on the pricing of our products and services, our success at implementing cost reduction initiatives and our ability to successfully implement our overall business strategy. The indenture governing the Notes also contains restrictive covenants that, among other things, limit our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to: • incur additional debt; • pay dividends or distributions on their capital stock or repurchase their capital stock; • make certain investments; • create liens on their assets to secure debt; 19 Table of Contents • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; • create limitations on the ability of the restricted subsidiaries to make dividends or distributions to their respective parents; • merge or consolidate with another company; and • transfer and sell assets. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in the Senior Credit Facilities and the indenture governing the Notes may be affected by economic, financial and industry conditions beyond our control. The breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default under either the Senior Credit Facilities or the indenture that would permit the applicable lenders or noteholders, as the case may be, to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. In any such case, we may be unable to make borrowings under the Senior Credit Facilities and may not be able to repay the amounts due under the Senior Credit Facilities and the Notes. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could cause us to become bankrupt or insolvent. The instruments governing our debt contain cross default or cross acceleration provisions that may cause all of the debt issued under such instruments to become immediately due and payable as a result of a default under an unrelated debt instrument. Our failure to comply with the obligations contained in the indenture governing our Notes and the agreements governing our Senior Credit Facilities or other instruments governing our indebtedness could result in an event of default under the applicable instrument, which could result in the related debt and the debt issued under other instruments becoming immediately due and payable. In such event, we would need to raise funds from alternative sources, which funds may not be available to us on favorable terms, on a timely basis or at all. Alternatively, such a default could require us to sell our assets and otherwise curtail our operations in order to pay our creditors. Such alternative measures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to our Common Stock and Market and Economic Factors RSC Holdings is a holding company with no operations of its own that depends on its subsidiaries for cash. The operations of RSC Holdings are conducted almost entirely through its subsidiaries and its ability to generate cash to meet its debt service obligations or to pay dividends is highly dependent on the earnings and the receipt of funds from its subsidiaries via dividends or intercompany loans. However, none of the subsidiaries of RSC Holdings is obligated to make funds available to RSC Holdings for the payment of dividends. In addition, payments of dividends and interest among the companies in our group may be subject to withholding taxes. Further, the indenture governing the Notes and the Senior Credit Facilities significantly restrict the ability of the subsidiaries of RSC Holdings to pay dividends or otherwise transfer assets to RSC Holdings. See “Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our Substantial Indebtedness — Restrictive covenants in certain of the agreements and instruments governing our indebtedness may adversely affect our financial flexibility.” In addition, Delaware law may impose requirements that may restrict our ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock. Our operating and financial performance in any given period might not meet the guidance we have provided to the public. We provide public guidance on our expected operating and financial results for future periods. Although we believe that this guidance provides investors and analysts with a better understanding of management’s expectations for the future, and is useful to our stockholders and potential stockholders, such guidance is comprised of forward-looking statements subject to the risks and uncertainties described in this report and in our other public filings and public statements. Actual results may differ from the projected guidance. If in the future, our operating or financial results for a particular period do not meet our guidance or the expectations of investment analysts, or if we reduce our guidance for future periods, the market price of our common stock could significantly decline. 20 Table of Contents Fluctuations in the stock market, as well as general economic and market conditions may impact our operations, sales, financial results and market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations in response to operating results and other factors including, but not limited to: • general economic changes, including rising interest rates, increased fuel costs and other energy costs; increased labor and healthcare costs, and increased levels of unemployment; • variations in quarterly operating results; • changes in the strategy and actions taken by our competitors, including pricing changes; • securities analysts elections to discontinue coverage of our common stock, changes in financial estimates by analysts or a downgrade of our stock or our sector by analysts; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • loss of a large customer or supplier; • future sales of our common stock; • investor perceptions of us and the equipment rental industry; • our ability to successfully integrate acquisitions and consolidations; and • national or regional catastrophes or circumstances and natural disasters, hostilities and acts of terrorism. These broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions, including but not limited to those listed above, may harm the market price of our common stock. Our share price may decline due to the large number of shares eligible for future sale. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the possibility of such sales by our executive officers, directors, or Sponsors or other large stock holders, may adversely affect the price of our common stock and impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of equity securities. As of December 31, 2007, our executive officers, directors and Sponsors beneficially held approximately 68% of our common stock. In addition, sales of our common stock that result in certain persons associated with the Sponsors holding less than 40% in the aggregate of the number of shares of our common stock held by them on the Recapitalization Closing Date will result in requiring us to pay current interest on any contingent earn-out note that we may issue. See “Recent Transactions — The Recapitalization — Contingent Earn-Out Notes.” Our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and Delaware law may discourage takeovers and business combinations that our stockholders might consider in their best interests. A number of provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may have the effect of delaying, deterring, preventing or rendering more difficult a change in control of RSC Holdings that our stockholders might consider in their best interests. These provisions include: • establishment of a classified Board of Directors, with staggered terms; • granting to the Board of Directors sole power to set the number of directors and to fill any vacancy on the Board of Directors, whether such vacancy occurs as a result of an increase in the number of directors or otherwise; • limitations on the ability of stockholders to remove directors; 21 Table of Contents • the ability of the Board of Directors to designate and issue one or more series of preferred stock without stockholder approval, the terms of which may be determined at the sole discretion of the Board of Directors; • prohibition on stockholders from calling special meetings of stockholders; • establishment of advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations for election to the Board of Directors at stockholder meetings; and • prohibiting our stockholders from acting by written consent if the Sponsors cease to collectively hold a majority of our outstanding common stock. These provisions may prevent our stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. In addition, we have opted out of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which would have otherwise imposed additional requirements regarding mergers and other business combinations. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may also make it difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions may facilitate management entrenchment that may delay, deter, render more difficult or prevent a change in our control, which may not be in the best interests of our stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 