ITEM 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. An investor should consider carefully all of the material risks described below, together with the other information contained in this Report before making a decision to invest in our securities. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our securities could decline, and a security holder could lose all or part of its investment. Risks Associated With Our Company We are a newly formed company with no operating history and, accordingly, an investor does not have any basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a recently formed company with no operating results to date. Since we do not have any operations or an operating history, an investor does not have any basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to acquire, merge with, engage in a capital stock exchange with, purchase all or substantially all of the assets of, or engage in any other similar business combination with a single domestic and/or foreign operating entity, or one or more related or unrelated operating entities in the financial services sector. At the time of our IPO we did not have any specific merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition or other business combination under consideration or contemplation and we did not, nor did anyone on our behalf, contact any potential target business or had any discussions, formal or otherwise, with respect to such a transaction. We will not generate any revenues or income, other than interest income, until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business combination. We cannot assure you as to when or if a business combination will occur. If we are forced to dissolve and liquidate before a business combination our warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to dissolve, liquidate and wind up, there will be no amount payable upon such liquidation with respect to our outstanding warrants and, accordingly, the warrants will expire worthless. Our shareholders are not entitled to protections normally afforded to investors of blank check companies including the ability to receive all interest earned on the amount held in trust. Since the net proceeds of the IPO are intended to be used to complete a business combination with a target business that has not been identified, we may be deemed to be a “blank check” company under the United States securities laws. However, since we had net tangible assets in excess of $5,000,000 upon the consummation of the IPO and filed a Current Report on Form 8-K with the SEC upon consummation of the IPO, including audited financial statements demonstrating this fact, we are exempt from rules promulgated by the SEC to protect investors of blank check companies such as Rule 419. Accordingly, investors are not afforded the benefits or protections of those rules, such as entitlement to all the interest earned on the funds deposited into our trust account. Because we are not subject to Rule 419, a significant amount of the interest earned on the funds deposited in our trust account will be released to us to fund our working capital and will not be available at all to those public stockholders redeeming in connection with a business combination. 20 Table of Contents Because there are numerous companies with a business plan similar to ours seeking to effectuate a business combination, it may be more difficult for us to complete a business combination. Based upon publicly available information, we have identified approximately 156 blank check companies that have completed initial public offerings since August 2003. Of these companies, only 48 have completed a business combination, while 11 have liquidated or will be liquidating. The remaining approximately 97 blank check companies have more than $16.1 billion in trust and are seeking to complete business acquisitions. Of these companies, only 25 have announced that they have entered into definitive agreements or letters of intent with respect to potential business combinations but have not yet consummated business combinations. In addition, there are 84 blank check companies with more than $15.0 billion in trust that have filed registration statements and will be seeking to complete business combinations. Furthermore, the fact that only 48 of such companies have completed business combinations and only 25 other of such companies have entered into definitive agreements or letters of intent for business combinations, and 11 have liquidated or will be liquidating, may be an indication that there are only a limited number of attractive targets available to such entities or that many targets are not inclined to enter into a transaction with a blank check company, and therefore we also may not be able to consummate a business combination within the prescribed time period. If we are unable to consummate a business combination within the prescribed time period, our purpose will be limited to dissolving, liquidating and winding up. The fact that we will proceed with the business combination if public stockholders holding less than 30% of the shares sold in the IPO exercise their redemption rights may hinder our ability to consummate a business combination in the most efficient manner or to optimize our capital structure. We will proceed with the business combination if public stockholders holding less than 30% of the shares sold in the IPO exercise their redemption rights. As a result of our redemption threshold, we may have less cash available to complete a business combination. Because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise such redemption rights, we will need to structure a business combination meeting the 80% of our net assets test that requires less cash, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund the transaction in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their redemption rights than we expect. Alternatively, to compensate for the potential shortfall in cash, we may be required to structure the business combination, in whole or in part, using the issuance of our stock as consideration. Accordingly, this redemption threshold of 30% may hinder our ability to consummate a business combination in the most efficient manner or to optimize our capital structure. The terms on which we may effect a business combination can be expected to become less favorable as we approach our 24 month deadline. Pursuant to our certificate of incorporation, if we do not effect a business combination by October 9, 2009, our corporate existence will cease except for the purpose of winding up our affairs and liquidating. Any entity with which we negotiate, or attempt to negotiate, a business combination, will, in all likelihood, be aware of this time limitation and can be expected to negotiate accordingly. In such event, we may not be able to reach an agreement with any proposed target prior to such period and any agreement that is reached may be on terms less favorable to us than if we did not have the time period restriction set forth above. Additionally, as the 24 month time period draws closer, we may not have the desired amount of leverage in the event any new information comes to light after entering into definitive agreements with any proposed target but prior to consummation of a business transaction. 21 Table of Contents If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per-share liquidation price received by stockholders from our trust account as part of our stockholder-approved plan of dissolution and liquidation will be less than $7.96 per share. Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we are obligated to have all significant vendors, prospective target businesses or other entities with which we execute agreements waive any and all right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in our trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders, there is no guarantee that if they execute such agreements that they would be prevented from bringing claims against our trust account including but not limited to fraudulent inducement, breach of fiduciary responsibility and other similar claims, as well as claims challenging the enforceability of the waiver, in each case in order to gain an advantage with a claim against our assets, including the funds held in our trust account. The determination of which vendors will be deemed significant will be made by our management but will include any investment bankers, legal advisors and accounting firms we hire in connection with a business combination. Accordingly, any creditor’s claims against the trust account will take priority over the claims of our public stockholders and the per-share liquidation price could be less than the $7.96 per share held in our trust account, plus interest (net of any taxes due on such interest, which taxes, if any, shall be paid from our trust account and net of any amounts released to us as working capital, or to fund costs associated with our plan of dissolution and liquidation if we do not consummate a business combination). If we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to dissolve and liquidate, Messrs. Lerner, Daras, Baris, Hammer and Lichten will be personally liable to ensure that the proceeds in our trust account are not reduced by the claims of various vendors, prospective target businesses or other entities that are owed money by us for any reason, including for services rendered or products sold to us, to the extent necessary to ensure that such claims do not reduce the amount in our trust account in order to preserve a $7.96 per-share liquidation price. We cannot assure you that these directors and executive officers will be able to satisfy those obligations. These indemnifying officers and directors have agreed to indemnify us for any and all claims to the extent necessary to ensure that the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced by the claims of vendors, service providers and prospective target businesses. Additionally, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, the funds held in our trust account will be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our public stockholders. To the extent bankruptcy claims deplete our trust account, we cannot assure you we will be able to return to our public stockholders the liquidation amounts due them. Certain of our current officers and directors may resign (i) upon consummation of a business combination or (ii) if they are deemed to not be “independent” based upon the rules of the American Stock Exchange or the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. As a result, management of the prospective target business may become in charge of our day-to-day operations. We cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. Our ability to effect a business combination will be totally dependent upon the efforts of our officers and directors. The future role of our officers and directors in the target business, however, cannot presently be ascertained. Certain of our current officers and directors may resign (i) upon consummation of a business combination or (ii) if they are deemed to not be “independent” based upon the rules of the American Stock Exchange or the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. Although it is possible that some of our officers and directors will remain associated with the target business following a business combination, it is likely that some or all of the management of the target business at the time of the business combination will remain in place. Although we intend to closely scrutinize the management of a prospective target business in connection with evaluating the desirability of effecting a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of management will prove to be correct. 22 Table of Contents Our management will only remain with the combined company after consummation of the business combination if, among other things, they are able to negotiate terms with the combined company as part of any such combination. While any or all members of our management have expressed a willingness to remain associated with us after consummation of the business combination, either as officers or directors, there is the possibility that no members of our management team will remain associated with us after the consummation of the business combination. In addition, there has not been any determination that any specific members of management will remain associated with the combined company post-business combination. It is more likely that some of our members of our management will remain as directors rather than officers post-business combination. However, we do not yet know which members of our management may remain associated with us after consummation of the business combination, and what their roles will be, because such a decision will be based on a variety of factors, including the experience and skill set of the target business’ management, the experience and skill set of each of our members of management as it relates to the target business, the industry and geographic location of the business post-business combination and the ability of members of our management to negotiate terms with the target business as part of any such business combination. If any members of our management negotiate to be retained post business combination as a condition to any potential business combination, such person’s financial interests, including compensation arrangements, could influence such person’s motivation in selecting, negotiating and structuring a transaction with a target business, and such negotiations may result in a conflict of interest. Our officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented to. None of our officers or directors have ever been associated with a “blank check” company. However, our officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with entities, other than “blank check” companies, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. Additionally, our officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as the other entities to which they owe fiduciary duties. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. Our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. Our certificate of incorporation provides that we will continue in existence only until October 9. 2009. If we have not completed a business combination by such date and amended this provision in connection therewith, pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law, our corporate existence will cease except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating. Under Sections 280 through 282 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. If the corporation complies with certain procedures intended to ensure that it makes reasonable provision for all claims against it, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against the corporation, a 90-day period during which the corporation may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions are made to stockholders, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. 23 Table of Contents However, it is our intention to make liquidating distributions to our stockholders within 10 business days after the 24 month period and, therefore, we do not intend to comply with those procedures. Because we will not be complying with these procedures, we are required, pursuant to Section 281(b) of the Delaware General Corporation Law, to adopt a plan that will provide for our payment, based on facts known to us at such time, of (i) all existing claims, (ii) all pending claims and (iii) all claims that may be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years. However, because we are a blank check company, rather than an operating company, and our operations are limited to searching for prospective target businesses to acquire, the only likely claims to arise would be from our vendors (such as accountants, lawyers, investment bankers) or potential target businesses. As described above, we intend to have all significant vendors, service providers and prospective target businesses execute agreements with us waiving any and all right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in our trust account. Based on representations made to us by our indemnifying officers and directors, we currently believe that they have substantial means to fund any shortfall in our trust account to satisfy their foreseeable indemnification obligations, but we have not asked them to reserve for such eventuality. The indemnification obligations may be substantially greater than our indemnifying officers and directors currently foresee or expect. Their financial resources may also deteriorate in the future. Hence, we cannot assure you that our officers and directors will be able to satisfy those obligations. In addition, because we will not be complying with Section 280, our public stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution and any such liability of our stockholders will likely extend beyond the third anniversary of such dissolution. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from our public stockholders amounts owed to them by us. We will dissolve and liquidate if we do not consummate a business combination. Pursuant to, among other documents, our certificate of incorporation, if we do not complete a business combination within 24 months after the consummation of the IPO our corporate existence will cease except for purposes of winding-up our affairs and liquidating. We view this obligation to dissolve and liquidate as an obligation to our public stockholders and neither we nor our board of directors will take any action to amend or waive any provision of our certificate of incorporation to allow us to survive for a longer period of time if it does not appear we will be able to consummate a business combination within the foregoing time period. Upon dissolution, we will distribute to all of our public stockholders, in proportion to their respective equity interest, an aggregate sum equal to the amount in our trust account (net of taxes payable and that portion of the interest earned previously released to us). Our initial stockholders have waived their rights to participate in any liquidation distribution with respect to their initial shares and have agreed to vote in favor of any plan of dissolution and liquidation which we will present to our stockholders for vote. There will be no distribution from our trust account with respect to our warrants which will expire worthless. We will pay the costs of our dissolution and liquidation and we estimate such costs to be approximately $15,000. We believe there should be sufficient funds available either outside of our trust account or made available to us out of the net interest earned on our trust account and released to us as working capital, to fund this cost, although we cannot give any assurances thereof. To the extent sufficient funds are not available, Messrs. Lerner, Daras, Baris, Hammer and Lichten have agreed to indemnify us, however, we cannot assure you that they will be able to satisfy these obligations. Upon notice from us, the trustee of our trust account will liquidate the investments constituting our trust account and will turn over the proceeds to our transfer agent for distribution to our public stockholders as part of our stockholder-approved plan of dissolution and liquidation. Concurrently, we shall pay, or reserve for payment, from interest released to us from our trust account if available, our liabilities and obligations, although we cannot give you assurances that there will be sufficient funds for such purpose. The amounts held in our trust account may be subject to claims by third parties, such as vendors, prospective target business or other entities, if we do not obtain valid and enforceable waivers. 24 Table of Contents We may choose to redeem our outstanding warrants at a time that is disadvantageous to our warrant holders. Subject to there being a current prospectus under the Securities Act of 1933 with respect to the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants, we may redeem the warrants issued as a part of our units at any time after the warrants become exercisable in whole and not in part, at a price of $.01 per warrant, upon a minimum of 30 days’ prior written notice of redemption, if and only if, the last sales price of our common stock equals or exceeds $11.50 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading day period ending three business days before we send the notice of redemption. Redemption of the warrants could force the warrant holders (i) to exercise the warrants and pay the exercise price thereafter at a time when it may be disadvantageous for the holders to do so, (ii) to sell the warrants at the then current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold the warrants, or (iii) to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the warrants. Although we are required to use our best efforts to have an effective registration statement covering the issuance of the shares underlying the warrants at the time that our warrant holders exercise their warrants, we cannot guarantee that a registration statement will be effective, in which case our warrant holders may not be able to exercise our warrants and the warrants may expire worthless. Holders of our warrants will be able to exercise the warrant only if (i) a current registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 relating to the shares of our common stock underlying the warrants is then effective and (ii) such shares are qualified for sale or exempt from qualification under the applicable securities law of the states in which the various holders of warrants reside. Although we have undertaken in the warrant agreement, and therefore have a contractual obligation, to use our best efforts to maintain a current registration statement covering the shares underlying the warrants following completion of the IPO to the extent required by federal securities law, and we intend to comply with such undertaking, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. In addition, we have agreed to use our reasonable efforts to register the shares underlying the warrants under the blue sky laws of the states of residence of the exercising warrant holders, to the extent an exemption is not available. The value of the warrants may be greatly reduced if a registration statement covering the shares issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not kept current or if the securities are not qualified, or exempt from qualification, in the states in which the holders of warrants reside. Holders of warrants who reside in jurisdictions in which the shares underlying the warrants are not qualified and in which there is no exemption will be unable to exercise their warrants and would either have to sell their warrants in the open market or allow them to expire unexercised. We are not obligated to pay cash or other consideration to the holders of the warrants in such circumstances and the warrants can become, and later expire, worthless. If and when the warrants become redeemable by us, we may exercise our redemption right even if we are unable to qualify the underlying securities for sale under all applicable state securities laws. Existing shareholders who purchased warrants in the private placement may be able to exercise their warrants at a time when the public purchasers may not. Because the founders’ warrants sold in the private placement prior to the IPO were originally issued pursuant to an exemption from registration requirements under the federal securities laws, the founders’ warrants are exercisable even if, at the time of exercise, a prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants is not current. As described above, the holders of the public warrants will not be able to exercise them unless we have a current registration statement covering the shares issuable upon their exercise. 25 Table of Contents We may issue shares of our capital stock or debt securities to complete a business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and likely cause a change in control of our ownership. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 49,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $.0001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.0001 per share. There are 26,554,400 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants and the underwriters’ unit purchase option) and all of the 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. Although we have no commitments as of the date of this report to issue our securities, we may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock or preferred stock, or a combination of common and preferred stock, to complete a business combination. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock: • may significantly reduce the equity interest of our public investors; • will likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and most likely also result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and • may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Additionally, parts of the financial services industry are capital intensive, traditionally using substantial amounts of indebtedness to finance acquisitions and working capital needs. If we finance the purchase of assets or operations through the issuance of debt securities, it could result in: • default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination were insufficient to pay our debt obligations; • acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due if the debt security contained covenants that required the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves and any such covenant were breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; • our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security was payable on demand; and • our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt security contained covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security was outstanding. For a more complete discussion of the possible structure of a business combination, see the section above entitled “Effecting a business combination — Selection of a target business and structuring of a business combination.” 26 Table of Contents We may have insufficient resources to cover our operating expenses and the expenses of consummating a business combination. Immediately after the IPO and over-allotment, the Company had $1.6 million (including the $500,000 which can be drawn from our limited recourse revolving line of credit at the federal funds target interest rate (2.25% as of March 18, 2008) and up to $1,100,000 of interest we may earn on funds in our trust account) available from the proceeds of the IPO, over-allotment and the pre-offering private placement of the founders’ warrants, to cover our operating expenses for the next 24 months and to cover the expenses incurred in connection with a business combination. This amount was based on management’s estimates of the costs needed to fund our operations for 24 months and consummate a business combination. Those estimates may prove inaccurate. As of December 31, 2007,we have used approximately $392,000 of these funds, mostly to cover higher than anticipated offering expenses. This amount excludes $146,755 in accrued offering costs paid in January 2008. If we do not have sufficient proceeds available to fund our expenses, we may be forced to obtain additional financing, either from our management or the initial stockholders or from third parties. We may not be able to obtain additional financing and our initial stockholders and management are not obligated to provide any additional financing. If we do not have sufficient proceeds and cannot find additional financing, we may be forced to dissolve and liquidate as part of our stockholder-approved plan of dissolution and liquidation prior to consummating a business combination. Our ability to effect a business combination and to execute any potential business plan afterwards will be dependent upon the efforts of our officers and directors some of whom may join us following a business combination and whom we would have only a limited ability to evaluate. Our ability to effect a business combination will be dependent upon the efforts of our officers and directors. While any or all members of our management may remain associated with us after consummation of the business combination, either as officers or directors, there is the possibility that no members of our management team will remain associated with us after the consummation of the business combination. In addition, there has not been any determination that any specific members of management will remain associated with the combined company post-business combination. It is more likely that some of our members of our management will remain as directors rather than officers post-business combination. However, we do not yet know which members of our management may remain associated with us after consummation of the business combination, and what their roles will be, because such a decision will be based on a variety of factors, including the experience and skill set of the target business’ management, the experience and skill set of each of our members of management as it relates to the target business, the industry and geographic location of the business post-business combination and the ability of members of our management to negotiate terms with the target business as part of any such business combination. In addition, we may employ other personnel following the business combination. While we intend to closely scrutinize any additional individuals we engage after a business combination, we cannot guarantee that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. Moreover, our current management will only be able to remain with the combined company after the consummation of a business combination if they are able to negotiate terms with the combined company as part of any such combination. If we were to acquire a target business in an all-cash transaction, it would be more likely that current members of management would remain with us if they chose to do so. If a business combination were structured as a merger whereby the stockholders of the target company were to control the combined company following a business combination, it may be less likely that our management would remain with the combined company unless it was negotiated as part of the transaction via the acquisition agreement, an employment or consulting agreement or other arrangement. The determination to remain as officers of the resulting business will be determined prior to the completion of the transaction and will depend upon the appropriateness or necessity of our current management to remain. In making the determination as to whether our current management should remain with us following the business combination, management will analyze the experience and skill set of the target business’ management and negotiate as part of the business combination that certain members of our current management remain if it is believed that it is in the best interests of the combined company post-business combination. If our management negotiates to be retained post-business combination as a condition to any potential business combination, such negotiations may result in a conflict of interest. 27 Table of Contents If any of the underwriters or Scura, Rise & Partners LLC provides services to us in the future, we may pay them fair and reasonable fees that would be determined at that time in arm’s length negotiations. Any such negotiations could result in a conflict of interest. Although we are not under any contractual obligation to engage any of the underwriters or Scura, Rise & Partners LLC, a financial advisory firm, to provide any services for us after the IPO, any of the underwriters or Scura, Rise & Partners LLC may, among other things, introduce us to potential target businesses or assist us in raising additional capital, as needs may arise in the future. If any of the underwriters or Scura, Rise & Partners LLC provide services to us after the IPO, we may pay such entity fair and reasonable fees that would be determined at that time in arm’s length negotiations. Any such negotiations could result in a conflict of interest. Our officers and directors may allocate their time to other businesses thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. This could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and other businesses. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. Each of our officers and directors are engaged in several other business endeavors and are not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours per week to our affairs. If our officers and directors’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. All of our directors own shares of our common stock which will not participate in the liquidation of our trust account as part of our stockholder-approved plan of dissolution and liquidation and therefore they may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination. All of our officers and directors own our stock and all of our officers and directors own warrants purchased in a private placement consummated prior to the IPO, but have waived their right to the liquidation of our trust account as part of our stockholder-approved plan of dissolution and liquidation with respect to those shares (including shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants) upon the liquidation of our trust account to our public stockholders if we are unable to complete a business combination. The shares and warrants owned by these persons (including our officers and directors) will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. The personal and financial interests of these officers and directors may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business and completing a business combination in a timely manner. Consequently, these officers and directors’ discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interest. 28 Table of Contents Our initial stockholders will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the amount available outside our trust account unless the business combination is consummated and therefore they may have a conflict of interest. Our initial stockholders will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the amount available outside our trust account, unless the business combination is consummated. The amount of available proceeds was based on management estimates of the capital needed to fund our operations for 24 months and to consummate a business combination. Those estimates may prove to be inaccurate. The financial interest of such persons could influence their motivation in selecting a target business and thus, there may be a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular business combination is in the stockholders’ best interest. If our common stock becomes subject to the Securities and Exchange Commission’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. If at any time we have net tangible assets of less than $5,000,000 and our common stock has a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in our common stock may be subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: • make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; • receive the purchaser’s written agreement to a transaction prior to sale; • provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and which describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and • obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed. If our common stock becomes subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and it may be more difficult to sell our securities. It is probable our initial business combination will be with a single target business, which may cause us to be solely dependent on a single business and a limited number of products or services. Additionally, we may face obstacles to completing simultaneous acquisitions. Our initial business combination must be with a business or businesses with a collective fair market value of at least 80% of the amount in our trust account (excluding $2,755,296 of deferred compensation) at the time of such acquisition, which amount is required as a condition to the consummation of our initial business combination. We may not be able to acquire more than one target business because of various factors, including the amount of funds available to consummate a business combination, possible complex accounting issues, which would include generating pro forma financial statements reflecting the operations of several target businesses as if they had been combined, and numerous logistical issues, which could include attempting to coordinate the timing of negotiations, proxy statement disclosure and closings with multiple target businesses. 29 Table of Contents In addition, we may not have sufficient management, financial and other resources to effectively investigate the business and affairs of multiple acquisition candidates simultaneously or to negotiate the terms of multiple acquisition agreements at the same time which could result in a failure to properly evaluate multiple acquisitions. Further, we would also be exposed to the risk that conditions to closings with respect to the acquisition of one or more of the target businesses would not be satisfied bringing the fair market value of the initial business combination below the required fair market value of 80% of the amount in our trust account (excluding $2,755,296 to be held for the benefit of Morgan Joseph & Co. and taxes payable) threshold. Accordingly, while it is possible we may attempt to effect our initial business combination with more than one target business, we are more likely to choose a single target business if deciding between one target business meeting such 80% threshold and comparable multiple target business candidates collectively meeting the 80% threshold. Consequently, it is probable that, unless the purchase price consists substantially of our equity, we will have the ability to complete only the initial business combination with the net proceeds of the IPO, over-allotment, and the pre-offering private placement of the founders’ warrants. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may be: • solely dependent upon the performance of a single business; or • dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products or services. In this case, we will not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. The ability of our stockholders to exercise their redemption rights may not allow us to effectuate the most desirable business combination or optimize our capital structure. At the time we seek stockholder approval of any business combination, we will offer each public stockholder the right to have such stockholder’s shares of common stock redeemed for cash if the stockholder votes against the business combination and the business combination is approved and completed. Accordingly, if our business combination requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise such redemption rights, we may either need to reserve part of our trust account for possible payment upon such redemption, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our business combination in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their redemption rights than we expected. Therefore, we may not be able to consummate a business combination that requires us to use all of the funds held in our trust account as part of the purchase price, or we may end up having a leverage ratio that is not optimal for our business combination. This may limit our ability to effectuate the most attractive business combination available to us. 30 Table of Contents We will not be required to obtain an opinion from an investment banking firm as to the fair market value of a proposed business combination if our board of directors independently determines that the target business has sufficient fair market value. The initial target business that we acquire must have a fair market value equal to at least 80% of the amount in our trust account (excluding $2,755,296 of deferred compensation to be held for the benefit of Morgan Joseph & Co. and taxes payable) at the time of such acquisition. There is no limitation on our ability to raise funds privately or through loans that would allow us to acquire a target business or businesses with a fair market value in an amount considerably greater than 80% of the amount in our trust account (excluding $2,755,296 of deferred compensation to be held for the benefit of Morgan Joseph & Co. and taxes payable) at the time of such acquisition. The fair market value of such business will be determined by our board of directors based upon standards generally accepted by the financial community, such as actual and potential sales, earnings and cash flow and book value, and the price for which comparable businesses have recently been sold. If our board is not able to independently determine that the target business has a sufficient fair market value, we will obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated, independent investment banking firm which is a member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or FINRA, with respect to the satisfaction of such criteria. We will not be required to obtain an opinion from an investment banking firm as to the fair market value of a proposed business combination if our board of directors independently determines that the target business has sufficient fair market value. Our initial business combination will be considerably larger than management’s recent investment experience at Inter-Atlantic Group. Inter-Atlantic Group has not recently made investments in excess of $10 million. By comparison, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation requires that our initial business combination be with a business or businesses that have a fair market value at least equal to 80% of the balance in the trust account (less deferred underwriting compensation of $2,755,296). Based on the trust account balance of $68,515,928 resulting from the net offering proceeds of the IPO, over-allotment and the sale of the founders’ warrants, we would be required to effect an initial business combination with a business whose fair market value is at least 80% ($52,608,506, or $36,831,214 assuming the maximum common share redemption of 29.99%). We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure the transaction or abandon a particular business combination. Although we believe that the net proceeds of the IPO will be sufficient to allow us to consummate a business combination, in as much as we have not yet selected any prospective target business, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the net proceeds of the IPO prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination or the depletion of the available net proceeds in search of a target business, or because we become obligated to redeem for cash a significant number of shares from dissenting stockholders (which in our case may be up to 30% of the shares held by public stockholders, rather than the 20% threshold of most other blank check companies), we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. 31 Table of Contents Our initial stockholders, including our officers and directors, control a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring stockholder vote. Our stockholders immediately prior to the IPO (including all of our officers and directors) collectively owned approximately 18% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock as of March 24, 2008, and thus may influence certain actions requiring stockholder vote. We are dependent upon interest earned on our trust account and our subordinated revolving line of credit to fund our search for a target company and consummation of a business combination. We are dependent upon our $500,000 limited recourse revolving line of credit and up to $1,100,000 of interest earned on the proceeds held in our trust account (net of taxes payable) to provide us with the working capital we need to search for a target company and consummate a business combination. While we are entitled to a portion of the interest earned on our trust account in excess of the amount necessary to allow for a $7.96 per share liquidation price to our public stockholders for such purpose, if interest rates were to decline further, we may not have sufficient funds available to complete a business combination. In such event, we would need to borrow funds from our insiders or others or be forced to dissolve, liquidate and wind up. Our founders’ warrants are non-redeemable provided they are held by the initial purchasers or their permitted transferees, which could provide such purchasers the ability to realize a larger gain than our public warrant holders. The warrants held by our public warrant holders (including the warrants subject to the underwriters’ unit purchase option) may be called for redemption at any time after the warrants become exercisable: • in whole and not in part; • at a price of $.01 per warrant; • upon a minimum of 30 days’ prior written notice of redemption to each warrant holder; • if, and only if, the last sale price of the shares equals or exceeds $11.50 per share, for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading day period ending on the third business day prior to the notice of redemption to warrant holders; and • if there is an effective registration statement allowing for the resale of shares underlying the warrants. As a result of the founders’ warrants not being subject to the redemption features that our publicly-held warrants are subject to, holders of the founders’ warrants, or their permitted transferees, could realize a larger gain than our public warrant holders. Our outstanding warrants and unit purchase option may have an adverse effect on the market price of our shares and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. In connection with the IPO and over-allotment, and in connection with the sale of 2,300,000 founders’ warrants, we issued warrants to purchase 10,910,300 shares. We also issued an option to purchase 525,000 units to Morgan Joseph & Co. which, if exercised, will result in the issuance of an additional 525,000 shares and 525,000 warrants. To the extent we issue shares to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of additional shares upon exercise of these warrants and option could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business as such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete the business combination. In addition, the potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of additional shares upon exercise of these warrants and options could make our shareholders vote against a potential transaction and exercise their redemption rights. Accordingly, our warrants and Morgan Joseph & Co.’s unit purchase option may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the warrants and unit purchase option could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future public financing. If and to the extent these warrants and unit purchase option are exercised, unit holders may experience dilution to their holdings. 32 Table of Contents If our initial stockholders and purchasers of the founders’ warrants exercise their registration rights, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of our shares and the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effect a business combination. Our initial stockholders are entitled to require us to register the resale of their shares at any time after the date on which their shares are released from escrow, which, except in limited circumstances, will not be before one year from the consummation of a business combination. In addition, the holders of the founders’ warrants can demand that we register those warrants and the underlying shares at anytime after the date on which their shares are released from escrow, which, except in limited circumstances, will not be before the consummation of a business combination. If our initial stockholders and the holders of the founders’ warrants exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their shares and warrants, then there will be an additional 1,875,000 shares and 2,300,000 warrants or up to 2,300,000 shares issued upon exercise of the founders’ warrants that will be eligible for trading in the public market. The presence of this additional number of securities eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our shares. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business, as the stockholders of the target business may be discouraged from entering into a business combination with us or will request a higher price for their securities as a result of these registration rights and the potential future effect their exercise may have on the trading market for our shares. The American Stock Exchange may delist our securities from trading on its exchange, which could limit investors’ ability to effect transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our securities are listed on the American Stock Exchange, a national securities exchange. We cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the American Stock Exchange in the future. In addition, in connection with a business combination, it is likely that the American Stock Exchange may require us to file a new listing application and meet its initial listing requirements, as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. If the American Stock Exchange delists our securities from trading on its exchange in the future, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: • a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; • a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock,” which would require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules, possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; 33 Table of Contents • a more limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future; • a decreased ability of our securityholders to sell their securities in certain states; and • restrictions on the nature of our investments. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. We may be deemed to be an investment company, as defined under Sections 3(a)(1)(A) and (C) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or the Investment Company Act, because, prior to the consummation of a business combination, we may be viewed as engaging in the business of investing in securities (in this case United States government securities as described below) having a value exceeding 40% of our total assets. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, our activities may be restricted which, among other problems, may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. Such restrictions include: • restrictions on the nature of our investments; and • restrictions on the issuance of securities. In addition, we may have imposed upon us burdensome requirements, including: • registration as an investment company; • adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and • reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. However, we do not believe that our anticipated principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act. To this end, the proceeds held in trust may only be invested by the trust agent in “government securities” with specific maturity dates or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we intend to avoid being deemed an investment company within the meaning of the Investment Company Act. Our securities are not intended for persons who are seeking a return on investments in government securities. Our trust account and the purchase of government securities for our trust account is intended as a holding place for funds pending the earlier to occur of either: (i) the consummation of our primary business objective, which is a business combination, or (ii) absent a business combination, our dissolution and return of the funds held in this trust account to our public stockholders as part of our plan of dissolution and liquidation. Notwithstanding our belief that we are not required to comply with the requirements of such act, in the event that the stockholders do not approve a plan of dissolution and liquidation and the funds remain in our trust account for an indeterminable amount of time, we may be considered to be an investment company and thus required to comply with such act. If we were deemed to be subject to the act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense that we have not allotted for. 34 Table of Contents Since we have not currently selected a prospective target business with which to complete a business combination, investors in our securities are unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of the target business’ operation. Since we have not yet selected a prospective target, investors in our securities have no current basis to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the target business’ operations. To the extent we complete a business combination with a financially unstable company, an entity in its development stage and/or an entity subject to unknown or unmanageable liabilities, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of those entities. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. We also cannot assure you that an investment in our securities will not ultimately prove to be less favorable to investors than a direct investment, if an opportunity were available, in a target business. Since we are not an operating company, upon consummation of a business combination, we will not benefit from the synergies typically associated with many business combinations, and as a result, potential target companies may favor other potential purchasers over us. A benefit of many business combinations is economies of scale in which the acquiring company can reduce costs by eliminating redundant operations and utilizing the resources of both entities to run the combined company more efficiently. Because we are not an operating company, upon consummation of a business combination, we will not benefit from these and other synergies often associated with business combinations and, as a result, potential target companies may favor other potential purchasers over us. Risks Related To Select Financial Services Organizations As mentioned elsewhere herein, we were formed for the purpose of acquiring a company in the financial services industry or businesses deriving a majority of their revenues from providing services to financial services companies, including for example, payment processing companies and technology providers. We may be subject to significant regulatory requirements in connection with our efforts to acquire a financial services organizations. Acquisitions of financial services organizations are often subject to significant regulatory requirements and consents, and we will not be able to consummate a business combination with certain types of financial services organizations without complying with applicable laws and regulations and obtaining required governmental or client consents. For example, if we were to attempt to acquire or acquire control of an investment management firm, we may have to obtain consents of the firm’s investment management clients or enter into new contracts with them, and there is no assurance that we would be able to obtain such consents or enter into new contracts. If our acquisition target were an insurance company, state insurance commissioners in the states where the insurance company does business would review an acquisition transaction and could prevent it by withholding their consent. The acquisition of a business in other sectors of the financial services industry may require similar approvals or consents. We may not receive any such required approvals or we may not receive them in a timely manner, including as a result of factors or matters beyond our control. 35 Table of Contents Financial services organizations often face substantial on-going regulation and, after acquiring a financial services organization, we may face legal liability and reduced revenues and profitability if our services are not regarded as compliant or for other reasons. In addition to the regulatory requirements for banking organizations, many financial services organizations are subject to extensive regulation. Many regulators, including United States government agencies and self-regulatory organizations, as well as state securities commissions and attorneys general, are empowered to conduct administrative proceedings and investigations that can result in, among other things, censure, fine, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders, prohibitions against engaging in some lines of business or the suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer or investment adviser. The requirements imposed by regulators are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect customers and other third parties who deal with financial services firms and are not designed to protect our stockholders. Governmental and self-regulatory organizations impose and enforce regulations on financial services companies. United States self-regulatory organizations adopt rules, subject to approval by the SEC, that govern aspects of the financial services industry and conduct periodic examinations of the operations of registered broker-dealers and investment advisors. This regulatory environment is also subject to modifications and further regulations. New laws or regulations or changes in the enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to us also may adversely affect our business, and our ability to function in this environment will depend on our ability to constantly monitor and react to these changes. After the consummation of a business combination, we may face strong competition from financial services firms, many of whom may have the ability to offer clients a wider range of products and services than we may be able to offer, which could lead to pricing pressures that could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability. After consummation of a business combination in the financial services industry, we may compete with other firms — both domestic and foreign — in a number of areas, including the quality of our employees, transaction execution, our products and services, innovation, reputation and price. We may fail to attract new business and we may lose clients if, among other reasons, we are not able to compete effectively. We will also face significant competition as the result of consolidation in this industry. In the past several years, there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry. In particular, a number of large commercial banks, insurance companies and other broad-based financial services firms have merged with other financial institutions. Many of these firms have the ability to offer a wide range of products such as loans, deposit-taking and insurance, brokerage, investment management and investment banking services, which may enhance their competitive position. They also have the ability to support investment banking with commercial banking, insurance and other financial services revenue in an effort to gain market share, which could result in pricing pressure on other businesses. The passage of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act in 1999 reduced barriers to large institutions providing a wide range of financial services products and services. We believe, in light of increasing industry consolidation and the regulatory overhaul of the financial services industry, that competition will continue to increase from providers of financial services products. 36 Table of Contents Operational risks may disrupt our business, result in regulatory action against us or limit our growth. Financial services businesses are dependent on communications and information systems, including those of vendors. Any failure or interruption of these systems, whether caused by fire, other natural disaster, power or telecommunications failure, act of terrorism or war or otherwise, could materially adversely affect operating results. After the consummation of a business combination, we will need to continue to make investments in new and enhanced information systems. Interruption or loss of our information processing capabilities or adverse consequences from implementing new or enhanced systems could have a material adverse effect on our business and the price of our common stock and warrants. As our information system providers revise and upgrade their hardware, software and equipment technology, we may encounter difficulties in integrating these new technologies into our business. Additionally, our systems may be subject to infiltration by unauthorized persons. If our systems or facilities were infiltrated and damaged by unauthorized persons, our clients could experience data loss, financial loss and significant business interruption. If that were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The financial services industry has inherent risks, which may affect our net income and revenues. The financial services business is, by its nature, subject to numerous and substantial risks. Consequently, our net income and revenues are likely to be subject to wide fluctuations, reflecting the effect of many factors, many of which have been unfavorable recently, including: • general economic conditions; • market conditions; • the level and volatility of interest rates and equity prices; • competitive conditions; • liquidity of global markets; • international and regional political conditions; • regulatory and legislative developments; • monetary and fiscal policy; • investor sentiment; • availability and cost of capital; • technological changes and events; • outcome of legal proceedings; • changes in currency values; • natural disasters; • inflation; • credit ratings; and • size, volume and timing of transactions. These and other factors could affect the stability and liquidity of the markets in which financial services businesses operate. 37 Table of Contents Many financial services firms face credit risks which, if not properly managed, could cause revenues and net income to decrease. Many types of financial services firms, including banks and broker-dealers, lend funds to their customers. Among the risks all lenders face is the risk that some of their borrowers will not repay their loans. The ability of borrowers to repay their obligations may be adversely affected by factors beyond our control, including local and general economic and market conditions. A substantial portion of the loans may be secured by liens on real estate or securities. These same factors may adversely affect the value of real estate and securities as collateral. If we enter into a business combination with a firm that makes loans, we would maintain an allowance for loan losses to reflect the level of losses determined by management to be inherent in the loan portfolio. However, the level of the allowance and the amount of the provisions would only be estimates based on management’s judgment, and actual losses incurred could materially exceed the amount of the allowance or require substantial additional provisions to the allowance, either of which would likely have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. Many financial services firms are subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance. Changes in the interest rate environment may reduce our profits. Banks and other financial services firms realize income from the differential, or “spread,” between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest bearing liabilities. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities. In addition, loan volume and yields are affected by market interest rates on loans. We cannot assure you that we can minimize our interest rate risk. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume and overall profitability. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 