 Risk Factors and those listed in the Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements section included in Part I of this report. Our substantial debt and associated commitments could have important adverse consequences. For example, these commitments could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our contractual obligations; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our ability to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other corporate requirements; • increase our vulnerability to interest rate fluctuations because the interest payments on a portion of our debt are based upon variable interest rates and a portion can adjust based upon our credit statistics; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; 20 Table of Contents • place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or less restrictive covenants in such debt; and • limit our ability to refinance our debt in the future or borrow additional funds. We may be vulnerable to interest rate increases due to our floating rate debt obligations. As of December 31, 2010, after taking into consideration interest rate swaps, we had approximately $131.3 million of outstanding indebtedness that was effectively subject to floating interest rates. Changes in economic conditions outside of our control could result in higher interest rates, thereby increasing our interest expense and reducing the funds available for capital investment, operations or other purposes. A 1% increase in the effective interest rate on our outstanding debt subject to floating interest rates would result in an annual increase in our interest expense of approximately $1.3 million. Covenants in our debt agreements may impair our ability to operate our business. Our senior secured credit facilities, asset-backed securitization facility and the agreements governing certain of our other indebtedness contain various covenants with which we or certain of our subsidiaries must comply, including, but not limited to, restrictions on the use of proceeds from borrowings and limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, enter into transactions with affiliates, merge or consolidate, sell assets, make certain investments and acquisitions, make loans, grant liens, repurchase equity and pay dividends and distributions. For example, we must maintain various consolidated financial ratios including a ratio of EBITDA (defined in our senior secured credit agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) as Adjusted EBITDA) to Total Interest Expense (as defined in the Credit Agreement) of not less than 2.25 to 1.0, a ratio of consolidated Total Debt (as defined in the Credit Agreement) to EBITDA of not greater than 5.0 to 1.0 and a ratio of Senior Secured Debt (as defined in the Credit Agreement) to EBITDA of not greater than 4.0 to 1.0. As of December 31, 2010, we maintained a 4.3 to 1.0 EBITDA to Total Interest Expense ratio, a 3.9 to 1.0 consolidated Total Debt to EBITDA ratio and a 1.9 to 1.0 Senior Secured Debt to EBITDA ratio. As of December 31, 2010, we were in compliance with all financial covenants under our debt agreements. If we fail to remain in compliance with our financial covenants we would be in default under our debt agreements. In addition, if we experience a material adverse effect on our assets, liabilities, financial condition, business or operations that, taken as a whole, impact our ability to perform our obligations under our debt agreements, this could lead to a default under our debt agreements. Our Credit Agreement limits our Total Debt to EBITDA ratio to not greater than 5.0 to 1.0. Due to this limitation, only $422.0 million of the combined $1,217.9 million of undrawn capacity under our senior secured credit facility and our asset-backed securitization facility was available for additional borrowings as of December 31, 2010. The Partnership’s senior secured credit agreement (the “Partnership Credit Agreement”) also contains various covenants with which the Partnership must comply, including, but not limited to, restrictions on the use of proceeds from borrowings and limitations on its ability to incur additional indebtedness, enter into transactions with affiliates, merge or consolidate, sell assets, make certain investments and acquisitions, make loans, grant liens, repurchase equity and pay dividends and distributions. The Partnership must maintain various consolidated financial ratios, including a ratio of EBITDA (as defined in the Partnership Credit Agreement) to Total Interest Expense (as defined in the Partnership Credit Agreement) of not less than 3.0 to 1.0 (which will decrease to 2.75 to 1.0 following the occurrence of certain events specified in the Partnership Credit Agreement) and a ratio of Total Debt (as defined in the Partnership Credit Agreement) to EBITDA of not greater than 4.75 to 1.0. The Partnership Credit Agreement allows for the Partnership’s Total Debt to EBITDA ratio to be increased from 4.75 to 1.0 to 5.25 to 1.0 during a quarter when an acquisition meeting certain thresholds is completed and for the following two quarters after the acquisition closes. Therefore, because the Partnership acquired from us additional contract operations customer service agreements and a fleet of compressor units used to provide compression services under those agreements, which met the applicable thresholds, in the third quarter of 2010, the maximum allowed ratio of Total Debt to EBITDA is 5.25 to 1.0 through March 31, 2011, reverting to 4.75 to 1.0 for the quarter ending June 30, 2011 and subsequent quarters. As of December 31, 2010, the Partnership maintained a 5.8 to 1.0 EBITDA to Total Interest Expense ratio and a 3.7 to 1.0 Total Debt to EBITDA ratio. 21 Table of Contents The breach of any of our covenants could result in a default under one or more of our debt agreements, which could cause our indebtedness under those agreements to become due and payable. In addition, a default under one or more of our debt agreements, including a default by the Partnership under its credit facility, would trigger cross-default provisions under certain of our debt agreements, which would accelerate our obligation to repay our indebtedness under those agreements. If the repayment obligations on any of our indebtedness were to be so accelerated, we may not be able to repay the debt or refinance the debt on acceptable terms, and our financial position would be materially adversely affected. Many of our contract operations services contracts have short initial terms, and we cannot be sure that such contracts will be renewed after the end of the initial contractual term. The length of our contract operations services contracts with customers varies based on operating conditions and customer needs. Our initial contract terms are not long enough to enable us to fully recoup the cost of the equipment we utilize to provide contract operations services. We cannot be sure that a substantial number of these customers will continue to renew their contracts, that we will be able to enter into new contract operations services contracts with customers or that any renewals will be at comparable rates. The inability to renew a substantial portion of our contract operations services contracts, or the inability to renew a substantial portion of our contract operations services contracts at comparable service rates, would lead to a reduction in revenues and net income and could require us to record additional asset impairments. This would have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We depend on particular suppliers and are vulnerable to product shortages and price increases. Some of the components used in our products are obtained from a single source or a limited group of suppliers. Our reliance on these suppliers involves several risks, including price increases, inferior component quality and a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components in a timely manner. The partial or complete loss of certain of these sources could have a negative impact on our results of operations and could damage our customer relationships. Further, a significant increase in the price of one or more of these components could have a negative impact on our results of operations. We face significant competitive pressures that may cause us to lose market share and harm our financial performance. Our industry is highly competitive and there are low barriers to entry, especially in North America. We expect to experience competition from companies that may be able to adapt more quickly to technological changes within our industry and throughout the economy as a whole, more readily take advantage of acquisitions and other opportunities and adopt more aggressive pricing policies. Our ability to renew or replace existing contract operations service contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenue and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of our competitors. If our competitors substantially increase the resources they devote to the development and marketing of competitive products or services or substantially decrease the price at which they offer their products or services, we may not be able to compete effectively. Some of these competitors may expand or fabricate new compression units that would create additional competition for the services we currently provide to our customers. In addition, our other lines of business could face significant competition. We also may not be able to take advantage of certain opportunities or make certain investments because of our significant leverage and our other obligations. Any of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operations entail inherent risks that may result in substantial liability. We do not insure against all potential losses and could be seriously harmed by unexpected liabilities. Our operations entail inherent risks, including equipment defects, malfunctions and failures and natural disasters, which could result in uncontrollable flows of natural gas or well fluids, fires and explosions. These risks may expose us, as an equipment operator and fabricator, to liability for personal injury, wrongful death, property damage, pollution and other environmental damage. The insurance we carry against many of these 22 Table of Contents risks may not be adequate to cover our claims or losses. We currently have a minimal amount of insurance on our offshore assets. In addition, we are substantially self-insured for worker’s compensation, employer’s liability, property, auto liability, general liability and employee group health claims in view of the relatively high per-incident deductibles we absorb under our insurance arrangements for these risks. Further, insurance covering the risks we expect to face or in the amounts we desire may not be available in the future or, if available, the premiums may not be commercially justifiable. If we were to incur substantial liability and such damages were not covered by insurance or were in excess of policy limits, or if we were to incur liability at a time when we were not able to obtain liability insurance, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted. The tax treatment of the Partnership depends on its status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, as well as it not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. The Partnership could lose its status as a partnership for a number of reasons, including not having enough “qualifying income.” If the Internal Revenue Service treats the Partnership as a corporation or if the Partnership becomes subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, it would substantially reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to the Partnership’s unitholders and undermine the cost of capital advantage we believe the Partnership has. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in the Partnership’s common units depends largely on it being treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The Partnership has not received a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) on this or any other tax matter affecting it. Despite the fact that the Partnership is a limited partnership under Delaware law, a publicly traded partnership such as the Partnership will be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes unless 90% or more of its gross income from its business activities are “qualifying income” under Section 7704(d) of the Internal Revenue Code. “Qualifying income” includes income and gains derived from the exploration, development, production, processing, transportation, storage and marketing of natural gas and natural gas products or other passive types of income such as interest and dividends. Although we do not believe based upon our current operations that the Partnership is treated as a corporation, the Partnership could be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject to taxation as an entity if its gross income is not properly classified as qualifying income, there is a change in the Partnership’s business or there is a change in current law. If the Partnership were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, it would pay U.S. federal income tax at the corporate tax rate and would also likely pay state income tax. Treatment of the Partnership as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to its unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of its common units and the amount of distributions that we receive from the Partnership. Current law may change so as to cause the Partnership to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject it to entity-level taxation. In addition, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. The Partnership’s partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects it to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects it to entity-level taxation for U.S. federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution levels of the Partnership may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on it at the option of its general partner without the consent of its unitholders. If the Partnership were to be taxed at the entity level, it would lose the comparative cost of capital advantage we believe it has over time as compared to a corporation. 23 Table of Contents The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or our investment in the Partnership could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including the Partnership, or our investment in the Partnership may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, judicial interpretations of the U.S. federal income tax laws may have a direct or indirect impact on the Partnership’s status as a partnership and, in some instances, a court’s conclusions may heighten the risk of a challenge regarding the Partnership’s status as a partnership. Moreover, members of Congress have recently considered substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax laws that would have affected certain publicly traded partnerships. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible to meet the “qualifying income” exception for us to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Although the legislation considered would not have appeared to affect the Partnership’s tax treatment as a partnership, we are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals, will be reconsidered or will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes or differing judicial interpretations of existing laws could negatively impact the value of our investment in the Partnership and the amount of distributions that we receive from the Partnership. New regulations, proposed regulations and proposed modifications to existing regulations under the CAA, if implemented, could result in increased compliance costs. On August 20, 2010, the EPA published new regulations under the CAA to control emissions of hazardous air pollutants from existing stationary reciprocal internal combustion engines. The rule will require us to undertake certain expenditures and activities, likely including purchasing and installing emissions control equipment, such as oxidation catalysts or non-selective catalytic reduction equipment, on a portion of our engines located at major sources of hazardous air pollutants and all our engines over a certain size regardless of location, following prescribed maintenance practices for engines (which are consistent with our existing practices), and implementing additional emissions testing and monitoring. On October 19, 2010, we submitted a legal challenge to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit and a Petition for Administrative Reconsideration to the EPA for some monitoring aspects of the rule. The legal challenge has been held in abeyance since December 3, 2010, pending the EPA’s consideration of the Petition for Administrative Reconsideration. On January 5, 2011, the EPA approved the request for reconsideration of the monitoring issues and that reconsideration process is ongoing. At this point, we cannot predict when, how or if an EPA or a court ruling would modify the final rule, and as a result we cannot currently accurately predict the cost to comply with the rule’s requirements. Compliance with the final rule is required by October 2013. In addition, the TCEQ has finalized revisions to certain air permit programs that significantly increase the air permitting requirements for new and certain existing oil and gas production and gathering sites for 23 counties in the Barnett Shale production area. The final rule establishes new emissions standards for engines, which could impact the operation of specific categories of engines by requiring the use of alternative engines, compressor packages or the installation of aftermarket emissions control equipment. The rule will become effective for the Barnett Shale production area in April 2011, with the lower emissions standards becoming applicable between 2015 and 2030 depending on the type of engine and the permitting requirements. The cost to comply with the revised air permit programs is not expected to be material at this time. However, the TCEQ has stated it will consider expanding application of the new air permit program statewide. At this point, we cannot predict the cost to comply with such requirements if the geographic scope is expanded. In June 2010, the EPA formally proposed modifications to existing regulations under the CAA that established new source performance standards for manufacturers, owners and operators of new, modified and reconstructed stationary internal combustion engines. The proposed rule modifications, if adopted as drafted by the EPA, may require us to undertake significant expenditures, including expenditures for purchasing, installing, monitoring and maintaining emissions control equipment on a potentially significant percentage of our natural gas compressor engine fleet. At this point, we cannot predict the final regulatory requirements or 24 Table of Contents the cost to comply with such requirements. The EPA expects to finalize the proposed rules in May 2011 with an effective date targeted for July 2011. These new regulations and proposals, when finalized, and any other new regulations requiring the installation of more sophisticated pollution control equipment could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to a variety of governmental regulations; failure to comply with these regulations may result in administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures. We are subject to a variety of U.S. federal, state, local and international laws and regulations relating to the environment, health and safety, export controls, currency exchange, labor and employment and taxation. Many of these laws and regulations are complex, change frequently, are becoming increasingly stringent, and the cost of compliance with these requirements can be expected to increase over time. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including assessment of monetary penalties, imposition of remedial requirements and issuance of injunctions as to future compliance. From time to time, as part of our operations, including newly acquired operations, we may be subject to compliance audits by regulatory authorities in the various countries in which we operate. Environmental laws and regulations may, in certain circumstances, impose strict liability for environmental contamination, which may render us liable for remediation costs, natural resource damages and other damages as a result of our conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred or the conduct of, or conditions caused by, prior owners or operators or other third parties. In addition, where contamination may be present, it is not uncommon for neighboring land owners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury, property damage and recovery of response costs. Remediation costs and other damages arising as a result of environmental laws and regulations, and costs associated with new information, changes in existing environmental laws and regulations or the adoption of new environmental laws and regulations could be substantial and could negatively impact our financial condition, profitability and results of operations. We may need to apply for or amend facility permits or licenses from time to time with respect to storm water or wastewater discharges, waste handling, or air emissions relating to manufacturing activities or equipment operations, which subjects us to new or revised permitting conditions that may be onerous or costly to comply with. In addition, certain of our customer service arrangements may require us to operate, on behalf of a specific customer, petroleum storage units such as underground tanks or pipelines and other regulated units, all of which may impose additional compliance and permitting obligations. We conduct operations at numerous facilities in a wide variety of locations across the continental U.S. and internationally. The operations at many of these facilities require environmental permits or other authorizations. Additionally, natural gas compressors at many of our customers’ facilities require individual air permits or general authorizations to operate under various air regulatory programs established by rule or regulation. These permits and authorizations frequently contain numerous compliance requirements, including monitoring and reporting obligations and operational restrictions, such as emission limits. Given the large number of facilities in which we operate, and the numerous environmental permits and other authorizations that are applicable to our operations, we may occasionally identify or be notified of technical violations of certain requirements existing in various permits or other authorizations. Occasionally, we have been assessed penalties for our non-compliance, and we could be subject to such penalties in the future. We routinely deal with natural gas, oil and other petroleum products. Hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances or wastes may have been disposed or released on, under or from properties used by us to provide contract operations services or inactive compression storage or on or under other locations where such substances or wastes have been taken for disposal. These properties may be subject to investigatory, remediation and monitoring requirements under environmental laws and regulations. The modification or interpretation of existing environmental laws or regulations, the more vigorous enforcement of existing environmental laws or regulations, or the adoption of new environmental laws or 25 Table of Contents regulations may also negatively impact oil and natural gas exploration and production, gathering and pipeline companies, including our customers, which in turn could have a negative impact on us. Climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives could result in increased compliance costs. In recent years, the U.S. Congress has been considering legislation to restrict or regulate emissions of greenhouse gases, such as carbon dioxide and methane, that are understood to contribute to global warming. The American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009, passed by the House of Representatives, would, if enacted by the full Congress, have required greenhouse gas emissions reductions by covered sources of as much as 17% from 2005 levels by 2020 and by as much as 83% by 2050. It presently appears unlikely that comprehensive climate legislation will be passed by either house of Congress in the near future, although energy legislation and other initiatives are expected to be proposed that may be relevant to greenhouse gas emissions issues. In addition, almost half of the states, either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, have begun to address greenhouse gas emissions, primarily through the planned development of emission inventories or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. Although most of the state-level initiatives have to date been focused on large sources of greenhouse gas emissions, such as electric power plants, it is possible that smaller sources such as our gas-fired compressors could become subject to greenhouse gas-related regulation. Depending on the particular program, we could be required to control emissions or to purchase and surrender allowances for greenhouse gas emissions resulting from our operations. Independent of Congress, the EPA is beginning to adopt regulations controlling greenhouse gas emissions under its existing CAA authority. For example, in September 2009, the EPA adopted a new rule requiring approximately 13,000 facilities comprising a substantial percentage of annual U.S. greenhouse gas emissions to inventory their emissions starting in 2010 and to report those emissions to the EPA beginning in 2011. On November 30, 2010, the EPA finalized additional portions of this inventory rule relating to petroleum and natural gas systems that require inventories for that category of facilities beginning in January 2011 and reporting of those inventories beginning in March 2012. Also, on December 15, 2009, the EPA officially published its finalized determination that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases present an endangerment to human health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings by the EPA pave the way for the agency to adopt and implement regulations that would restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the CAA. Further, the EPA in June 2010 published a final rule providing for the tailored applicability of criteria that determine which stationary sources and modification projects become subject to permitting requirements for greenhouse gas emissions under two of the agency’s major air permitting programs. The EPA reported that the rulemaking was necessary because without it certain permitting requirements would apply as of January 2011 at an emissions level that would have greatly increased the number of required permits and, among other things, imposed undue costs on small sources and overwhelmed the resources of permitting authorities. In the rule, the EPA established two initial steps of phase-in to minimize those burdens, excluding certain smaller sources from greenhouse gas permitting until at least April 30, 2016. On January 2, 2011, the first step of the phase-in applied only to new projects at major sources (as defined under those CAA permitting programs) that, among other things, increase net greenhouse gas emissions by 75,000 tons per year. In July 2011, the second step of the phase-in will capture sources that have the potential to emit at least 100,000 tons per year of greenhouse gases. This new permitting program may affect some of our customers’ largest new or modified facilities going forward. Although it is not currently possible to predict how any such proposed or future greenhouse gas legislation or regulation by Congress, the states or multi-state regions will impact our business, any legislation or regulation of greenhouse gas emissions that may be imposed in areas in which we conduct business could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions or reduced demand for our services, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The price of our common stock and the Partnership’s common units may be volatile. Some of the factors that could affect the price of our common stock are quarterly increases or decreases in revenue or earnings, changes in revenue or earnings estimates by the investment community and speculation in 26 Table of Contents the press or investment community about our financial condition or results of operations. General market conditions and North America or international economic factors and political events unrelated to our performance may also affect our stock price. In addition, the price of our common stock may be impacted by changes in the value of our investment in the Partnership. For these reasons, investors should not rely on recent trends in the price of our common stock to predict the future price of our common stock or our financial results. We may not be able to consummate additional contributions or sales of portions of our U.S. contract operations business to the Partnership. As part of our business strategy, we intend to contribute or sell the remainder of our U.S. contract operations business to the Partnership, over time, but we are under no obligation to do so. Likewise, the Partnership is under no obligation to purchase any additional portions of that business. The consummation of any future sales of additional portions of that business and the timing of such sales will depend upon, among other things: • our reaching agreement with the Partnership regarding the terms of such sales, which will require the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of the Partnership’s general partner, which is comprised exclusively of directors who are deemed independent from us; • the Partnership’s ability to finance such purchases on acceptable terms, which could be impacted by general equity and debt market conditions as well as conditions in the markets specific to master limited partnerships; and • the Partnership’s and our compliance with our respective debt agreements. The Partnership intends to fund its future acquisitions from us with external sources of capital, including additional borrowings under its credit facility and/or public or private offerings of equity or debt. If the Partnership is not able to fund future acquisitions of our U.S. contract operations business, or if we are otherwise unable to consummate additional contributions or sales of our U.S. contract operations business to the Partnership, we may not be able to capitalize on what we believe is the Partnership’s lower cost of capital over time, which could impact our competitive position in the U.S. Additionally, without the proceeds from future contributions or sales of our U.S. contract operations business to the Partnership, we will have less capital to invest to grow our business. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would result in the purchase of our stockholders’ shares of common stock at a premium to the market price or would otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. There are provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would result in the purchase of our stockholders’ shares of common stock at a premium to the market price or would otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. For example, our restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. If our board of directors elects to issue preferred stock, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In addition, provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, such as limitations on stockholder actions by written consent and on stockholder proposals at meetings of stockholders, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. Delaware corporation law may also discourage takeover attempts that have not been approved by the board of directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 27 Table of Contents 