ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this annual report on Form 10-K and all of our other SEC reports, you should consider the following factors in evaluating us, our business and the strategic direction we may head in the future. Risks Relating to RXi’s Business and Industry The approach we are taking to discover and develop novel therapeutics using RNAi is unproven and may never lead to marketable products. The scientific discoveries that form the basis for our efforts to discover and develop new drugs are relatively new. The RNAi technologies that we have licensed and that we intend to develop have not yet been clinically tested by us, nor are we aware of any clinical trials for efficacy having been completed by third parties involving similar technologies. To date, neither we nor any other company has received regulatory approval to market therapeutics utilizing RNAi. The scientific evidence to support the feasibility of developing drugs based on these discoveries is both preliminary and limited. Successful development of RNAi-based products by us will require solving a number of issues, including providing suitable methods of stabilizing the RNAi material and delivering it into target cells in the human body. We may spend large amounts of money trying to solve these issues and never succeed in doing so. In addition, any compounds that we develop may not demonstrate in patients the chemical and pharmacological properties ascribed to them in laboratory studies, and they may interact with human biological systems in unforeseen, ineffective or even harmful ways. 16 Table of Contents Further, our exclusive focus on RNAi technology for developing products as opposed to multiple, more proven technologies for drug development, increases the risk associated with our business. If we are not successful in developing a product candidate using RNAi technology, we may not be able to identify and successfully implement an alternative product development strategy. We will be subject to competition and may not be able to compete successfully. A number of medical institutions and pharmaceutical companies are seeking to develop therapeutic products based on RNA interference technologies. Companies working in this area include Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Nastech Pharmaceutical Company Inc., Cequent Pharmaceuticals Inc., Nucleonics, Inc., Tacere Therapeutics Inc., Benitec Ltd., Opko Corp., Silence Therapeutics plc (formerly SR Pharma plc), Quark Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Rosetta Genomics Ltd., Calando Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and Isis Pharmaceuticals, Inc, as well as a number of the multinational pharmaceutical companies. In addition, a number of companies are developing therapeutics for the same diseases we are targeting using technologies other than RNA interference, and we are aware of some usage of an existing drug in a manner not described in its approved label for the potential treatment of ALS. Most of these competitors have substantially greater research and development capabilities and financial, scientific, technical, manufacturing, marketing, distribution, and other resources than us, and we may not be able to successfully compete with them. In addition, even if we are successful in developing our product candidates, in order to compete successfully we may need to be first to market or to demonstrate that our RNAi based products are superior to therapies based on different technologies. If we are not first to market or are unable to demonstrate such superiority, any products for which we are able to obtain approval may not be successful. For example, Isis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. has begun pre-clinical toxicology studies for an antisense-based therapeutic product candidate, for which the FDA has granted orphan drug status, that targets the same gene for ALS that we intend to target. If Isis is able to successfully bring this treatment to market before we are able to complete the development of an RNAi therapeutic in this area, even if our development efforts are successful, we may not receive any market advantages that we would have benefited from if ours were the first such therapeutic product available on the market. We may not be able to maintain the third party relationships that are necessary to develop or potentially commercialize some or all of our product candidates. We expect to depend on collaborators, partners, licensees, clinical research organizations and other third parties to support our discovery efforts, to formulate product candidates, and to conduct clinical trials for some or all of our product candidates. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully negotiate agreements for or maintain relationships with collaborators, partners, licensees, clinical investigators and other third parties on favorable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain or maintain these agreements, we may not be able to clinically develop, formulate, obtain regulatory approvals for or commercialize our product candidates. Under certain license agreements that we have already entered into, we have minimum dollar amounts per calendar year that we are obligated to spend on the development of the technology we have licensed from our contract partners. If we fail to meet this requirement under any of our licenses, we may be in breach of our obligations under such agreement which may result in the loss of the technology licensed. We cannot necessarily control the amount or timing of resources that our contract partners will devote to our research and development programs, product candidates or potential product candidates, and we cannot guarantee that these parties will fulfill their obligations to us under these arrangements in a timely fashion. We will rely upon third parties for the manufacture of our clinical product candidates. We do not have the facilities or expertise to manufacture supplies of any of our potential product candidates. Accordingly, we will be dependent upon contract manufacturers for these supplies. We have no manufacturing supply arrangements for any of our product candidates, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to secure needed supply arrangements on attractive terms, or at all. Our failure to secure these arrangements as needed could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to complete the development of our product candidates or, if we obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, to commercialize them. 17 Table of Contents We will seek to engage a specialty organic chemistry synthesis company, which we have not yet selected, to manufacture nanotransporters for which we have an exclusive license from UMMS for delivery of our product candidates, once they are determined. The synthesis methods for nanotransporters are described in the patent applications which we have licensed from UMMS. It is anticipated that refinement and scale-up in the synthesis methods will be performed under contract with this manufacturer. However, as the nanotransporters are unique chemicals, the costs of synthesis are not currently known and there is potential for technical challenges with respect to scale-up. Our current plans call for the manufacture of our RNAi compounds by contract manufacturers offering research grade, Good Laboratory Practices toxicology studies and Good Manufacturing Practices grade RNAi for clinical use. The chemistry, manufacturing and controls for RNAi active pharmaceutical ingredient will be addressed by our clinical development team in close collaboration with a contract manufacturer with extensive experience in RNA drug synthesis. RNA is a complex molecule requiring many synthesis steps, which may lead to challenges with purification and scale-up. These challenges could result in increased costs and delays in manufacturing. Additionally, although we are not currently aware of any such litigation or threatened litigation or challenge, if we have litigation or threatened litigation for or challenge to the composition of our products candidates in the future, manufacturers may refuse to manufacture such compounds. Any drug candidates we develop may fail in development or be delayed or may not be commercially viable. All of our products in development must be approved by the FDA or similar foreign governmental agencies before they can be marketed. The process for obtaining FDA approval is both time-consuming and costly, with no certainty of a successful outcome. This process typically includes the conduct of extensive preclinical and clinical testing, which may take longer or cost more than we anticipate, and may prove unsuccessful due to numerous factors. Product candidates that may appear to be promising at early stages of development may not successfully reach the market for a number of reasons. The results of pre-clinical and initial clinical testing of these products may not necessarily indicate the results that will be obtained from later or more extensive testing. Companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after obtaining promising results in earlier trials. We, the FDA or other applicable regulatory authorities, or an institutional review board (“IRB”), an independent committee under the oversight of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”), which has been formally registered with HHS and functions to approve, monitor and review biomedical and behavioral research involving humans, may suspend clinical trials of a drug candidate at any time for various reasons, including if we or they believe the subjects or patients participating in such trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks. Among other reasons, adverse side effects of a drug candidate on subjects or patients in a clinical trial could result in the FDA or other regulatory authorities suspending or terminating the trial and refusing to approve a particular drug candidate for any or all indications of use. Clinical trials of a new drug candidate require the enrollment of a sufficient number of patients, including patients who are suffering from the disease the drug candidate is intended to treat and who meet other eligibility criteria. Rates of patient enrollment are affected by many factors, and delays in patient enrollment can result in increased costs and longer development times. Clinical trials also require the review and oversight of IRBs, which approve and continually review clinical investigations and protect the rights and welfare of human subjects. An inability or delay in obtaining IRB approval could prevent or delay the initiation and completion of clinical trials and the FDA may decide not to consider any data or information derived from a clinical investigation not subject to initial and continuing IRB review and approval. Numerous factors could affect the timing, cost or outcome of our drug development efforts, including the following: • delays in filing initial drug applications, • difficulty in securing centers to conduct trials, 18 Table of Contents • conditions imposed on us by the FDA or comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials, • problems in engaging IRBs to oversee trials or problems in obtaining or maintaining IRB approval of studies, • difficulty in enrolling patients in conformity with required protocols or projected timelines, • unexpected adverse reactions by patients in trials, • difficulty in obtaining clinical supplies of the product, • negative or inconclusive results from our clinical trials or the clinical trials of others for drug candidates similar to our own or inability to generate statistically significant data confirming the efficacy of the product being tested, • changes in the FDA’s requirements for our testing during the course of that testing, • modification of the drug during testing, • reallocation of our limited financial and other resources to other clinical programs, and • adverse results obtained by other companies developing RNAi drugs. The substances we are intending to develop may represent a new class of drug, and the FDA has not yet established any definitive policies, practices or guidelines in relation to these drugs. While we expect any product candidates that we develop will be regulated as a new drug under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the FDA could decide to regulate them or other products we may develop as biologics under the Public Health Service Act. The lack of policies, practices or guidelines may hinder or slow review by the FDA of any regulatory filings that we may submit. Moreover, the FDA may respond to these submissions by defining requirements that we may not have anticipated. It is possible that none of the product candidates that we develop will obtain the appropriate regulatory approvals necessary for us to begin selling them or that any regulatory approval to market a product may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which we may market the product. The time required to obtain FDA and other approvals is unpredictable but often can take years following the commencement of clinical trials, depending upon the complexity of the drug candidate. Any analysis we perform of data from clinical activities is subject to confirmation and interpretation by regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Any delay or failure in obtaining required approvals could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue from the particular drug candidate. We are also subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing authorization, pricing and third-party reimbursement. The foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with FDA approval described above as well as risks attributable to the satisfaction of local regulations in foreign jurisdictions. Approval by the FDA does not assure approval by regulatory authorities outside of the United States. The FDA approval process may be delayed for any drugs we develop that require the use of specialized drug delivery devices or vehicles. Some drug candidates that we develop may need to be administered using specialized vehicles that deliver RNAi therapeutics directly to diseased parts of the body. For example, we anticipate using an implantable pump to deliver drug candidates to the nervous system. While we expect to rely on drug delivery vehicles that have been approved by the FDA or other regulatory agencies to deliver our drug candidates, we may need to modify the design or labeling of these delivery vehicles for some products we may develop. In such an event, the FDA may regulate the product as a combination product of a drug and a device or require additional approvals or clearances for the modified delivery. Additionally, it has been observed in at least one previous clinical trial, conducted by another company, that delivery vehicles similar to the delivery vehicle in-licensed from UMMS may cause toxicity, which could delay or prevent approval of this delivery vehicle. 19 Table of Contents Further, to the extent the specialized delivery vehicle is owned by another company, we would need that company’s cooperation to implement the necessary changes to the vehicle, or its labeling, and to obtain any additional approvals or clearances. Any delays in finding suitable drug delivery vehicles to administer RNAi therapeutics directly to diseased parts of the body could negatively affect our ability to successfully develop our RNAi therapeutics. If we are not successful in developing pre-clinical product candidates, we will not be able to commence clinical trials in humans or obtain approval for our product candidates. We are in the new drug discovery phase and we have not yet identified any lead compounds for therapeutic development in our initial areas of focus. RNA interference is a relatively new scientific field, and the technologies are still in the early stage of development. We have no compounds in pre-clinical toxicology studies, and we may not be able to advance any product candidate through the pre-clinical stage into clinical trials. Additionally, our development efforts may never result in the identification of a pre-clinical candidate which we are able to successfully develop into a drug. Even if we are able to designate a lead candidate, we may not be able to identify data that would support entering such a candidate into clinical trials. Furthermore, even if we successfully enter into clinical studies, the results from pre-clinical testing of a drug candidate may not predict the results that will be obtained on human clinical trials. If our pre-clinical testing does not produce successful results or our clinical trials do not demonstrate safety and efficacy in humans, we will not be able to commercialize our drug candidates. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the sale of our drug candidates, we must conduct, at our own expense, extensive pre-clinical tests and clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy in humans of our drug candidates. However, we are required to do extensive testing in animal models with our product candidates before we can be approved by the FDA to initiate clinical trials in humans. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that our product candidates will be safely tolerated by humans or be efficacious. Pre-clinical and clinical testing is expensive, difficult to design and implement, can take many years to complete and is uncertain as to outcome. Success in pre-clinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and interim results of a clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results. A failure of one or more of our pre-clinical studies or clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, the pre-clinical testing and the clinical trial process that could delay or prevent our ability to receive regulatory approval or potentially commercialize our drug candidates, including: • regulators or IRBs may not authorize us to commence a clinical trial or conduct a clinical trial at a prospective trial site, • our pre-clinical tests or clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulator may require us, to conduct additional pre-clinical testing or clinical trials, or we may abandon projects that we previously expected to be promising, • enrollment in our clinical trials may be slower than we anticipate or participants may drop out of our clinical trials at a higher rate than we anticipate, resulting in significant delays, • our third party contractors may fail to comply with regulatory requirements or meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner, • our drug candidates may have very different chemical and pharmacological properties in humans than in laboratory testing and it may interact with human biological systems in unforeseen, ineffective or harmful ways. • we might have to suspend or terminate our clinical trials if the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks, • IRBs or regulators, including the FDA, may require that we hold, suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements, 20 Table of Contents • the cost of our clinical trials may be greater than we anticipate, • the supply or quality of our drug candidates or other necessary materials necessary to conduct our clinical trials may be insufficient or inadequate, and • effects of our drug candidates may not be the desired effects or may include undesirable side effects or the drug candidates may have other unexpected characteristics. Even if we obtain regulatory approvals, our marketed drugs will be subject to ongoing regulatory review. If we fail to comply with continuing U.S. and foreign regulations, we could lose our approvals to market drugs and our business would be materially adversely affected. Following any initial regulatory approval of any drugs we may develop, we will also be subject to continuing regulatory review, including the review of adverse drug experiences and clinical results that are reported after our drug products are made available to patients. This would include results from any post marketing tests or vigilance required as a condition of approval. The manufacturer and manufacturing facilities we use to make any of our drug candidates will also be subject to periodic review and inspection by the FDA. The discovery of any new or previously unknown problems with the product, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the drug or manufacturer or facility, including withdrawal of the drug from the market. Our product promotion and advertising also will be subject to regulatory requirements and continuing regulatory review. If we fail to comply with applicable continuing regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approval, product recalls and seizures, operating restrictions and other adverse consequences. Even if we receive regulatory approval to market our product candidates, our product candidates may not be accepted commercially, which may prevent us from becoming profitable. The product candidates that we are developing are based on new technologies and therapeutic approaches. RNAi products are expected to be substantially more expensive to manufacture than traditional small molecule drugs, which may make them more costly than competing small molecule drugs. Additionally, RNAi products are likely to require injection or implantation, and do not readily cross the so-called blood brain barrier, which will make them less convenient to administer than drugs administered orally. Key participants in the pharmaceutical marketplace, such as physicians, medical professionals working in large reference laboratories, public health laboratories and hospitals, third-party payors and consumers, may not accept products intended to improve therapeutic results based on RNAi technology. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to convince the medical community and third-party payors to accept and use our product, or to provide favorable reimbursement. And if medical professionals working with large reference laboratories, public health laboratories and hospitals choose not to adopt and use our RNAi technology, our products may not achieve broader market acceptance. Other factors that we believe will materially affect market acceptance of our product candidates include: • the timing of our receipt of any marketing approvals, the terms of any approvals and the countries in which approvals are obtained, • the safety, efficacy and ease of administration of our product candidates, • the advantages of our product candidates over those of our competitors, • the willingness of patients to accept relatively new therapies, • the success of our physician education programs, • the availability of government and third-party payor reimbursement, • the pricing of our products, particularly as compared to alternative treatments, and • the availability of effective alternative treatments and the relative risks and/or benefits of the treatments. 21 Table of Contents We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights licensed from UMMS or others, our intellectual property rights may be inadequate to prevent third parties from using our technologies or developing competing products, and we may need to license additional intellectual property from others. We have a non-exclusive license to the Mello and Fire foundational RNAi patent owned by UMMS and the Carnegie Institution of Washington, which claims various aspects of RNAi or genetic inhibition by double stranded RNA. This license continues to be available to third parties, and as such it does not provide us with the ability to exclude others from its use or protect us from competition. Therapeutic applications of gene silencing technology and other technologies that we license from UMMS are also claimed in a number of UMMS pending patent applications, but there can be no assurance that these applications will result in any issued patents or that those patents would withstand possible legal challenges or protect RXi’s technologies from competition. United States Patent and Trademark Office and patent granting authorities in other countries have upheld stringent standards for the RNAi patents that have been prosecuted so far. Consequently, pending patents that we have licensed may continue to experience long and difficult prosecution challenges and may ultimately issue with much narrower claims than those in the pending applications. We are aware of a number of issued patents covering various particular forms and compositions of RNAi-mediating molecules and therapeutic methods that we do not currently expect to use. Third parties may, however, hold or seek to obtain additional patents that could make it more difficult or impossible for us to develop products based on the gene silencing technology that we have licensed. In addition, others may challenge the patent owned by UMMS and the Carnegie Institution of Washington or other patents that we currently license or may license in the future and, as a result, these patents could be narrowed, invalidated or rendered unenforceable, which would negatively affect our ability to exclude others from use of RNAi technologies described in these patents. There can be no assurance that these patent or other pending applications or issued patents we licensed in will withstand possible legal challenges. Moreover, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Any patents issued to us or our licensors may not provide us with any competitive advantages, and there can be no assurance that the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our ability to do business or to continue to use our technologies freely. Our efforts to enforce and maintain our intellectual property rights may not be successful and may result in substantial costs and diversion of management time. Even if our rights are valid, enforceable and broad in scope, competitors may develop products based on technology that is not covered by our licenses. We have entered into an invention disclosure agreement with UMMS under which UMMS has agreed to disclose to us certain inventions it makes and to give us the exclusive right to negotiate licenses to the disclosed technologies. There can be no assurance, however, that any such inventions will arise, that we will be able to negotiate licenses to any inventions on satisfactory terms, or at all, or that any negotiated licenses will prove commercially successful. We may need to license additional intellectual property rights from third parties in order to be able to complete the development or enhance the efficacy of our product candidates or avoid possible infringement of the rights of others. Additionally, many of our UMMS licenses are limited to ALS, obesity, diabetes and cancer, and in order to pursue other diseases against proprietary gene targets, we may need licenses from UMMS or other third parties that may be unavailable. Accordingly, there is no assurance that we will be able to acquire any additional intellectual property rights on satisfactory terms, or at all. In addition to our licenses, we also rely on copyright and trademark protection, trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovation and licensing opportunities. In an effort to maintain the confidentiality and ownership of our trade secrets and proprietary information, we require our employees, consultants, advisors and others to whom we disclose confidential information to execute confidentiality and proprietary information agreements. However, it is possible that these agreements may be breached, invalidated or rendered unenforceable, and if so, there may not be an adequate corrective remedy available. Furthermore, like many companies in our industry, we may from time to time hire scientific personnel formerly employed by other companies involved in one or more areas similar to the activities we conduct. In some situations, our confidentiality and proprietary information agreements may conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom 22 Table of Contents our employees, consultants or advisors have prior employment or consulting relationships. Although we require our employees and consultants to maintain the confidentiality of all confidential information of previous employers, we or these individuals may be subject to allegations of trade secret misappropriation or other similar claims as a result of their prior affiliations. Finally, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques, or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Our failure to protect our proprietary information and techniques may inhibit or limit our ability to exclude certain competitors from the market and execute our business strategies. Other companies or organizations may assert patent rights that prevent us from developing our products. RNA interference is a relatively new scientific field that has generated many different patent applications from organizations and individuals seeking to obtain important patents in the field. These applications claim many different methods, compositions and processes relating to the discovery, development and commercialization of RNAi therapeutics. Because the field is so new, very few of these patent applications have been fully processed by government patent offices around the world, and there is a great deal of uncertainty about which patents will issue, when, to whom, and with what claims. While we are not aware of any litigation, threatened litigation or challenge to our intellectual property rights, it is likely that there will be significant litigation and other proceedings, such as interference and opposition proceedings in various patent offices, relating to patent rights in the RNAi field. Others may attempt to invalidate our intellectual property rights or those of our licensors. Even if our rights, or those of our licensors, are not directly challenged, disputes among third parties could lead to the weakening or invalidation of our intellectual property rights. Any attempt by third parties to circumvent or invalidate our intellectual property rights could be costly to defend, require significant time and attention of our management and have a material adverse effect on our business. We are dependent on technologies we license, and if we lose the right to license such technologies or we fail to license new technologies in the future, our ability to develop new products would be harmed. We currently are dependent on licenses from third parties for our key technologies, including licenses from UMMS and from Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, relating to fundamental RNAi technologies. Our current licenses impose, and any future licenses we enter are likely to impose, various development, funding, royalty, diligence, sublicensing, insurance and other obligations on us. If our license with respect to any of these technologies is terminated for any reason, the development of the products contemplated by the licenses would be delayed, or suspended altogether, while we seek to license similar technology or develop new non-infringing technology. The costs of obtaining new licenses are high, and many patents in the RNAi field have already been exclusively licensed to third parties, including our competitors. If any of our existing licenses is terminated, the development of the products contemplated by the licenses could be delayed or terminated and we may not be able to negotiate additional licenses on acceptable terms, if at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to potential liabilities from clinical testing and future product liability claims. If any of our future products are alleged to be defective, they may expose us to claims for personal injury by patients in clinical trials of our products or by patients using our commercially marketed products. Even if the marketing of one or more of our products is approved by the FDA, users may claim that such products caused unintended adverse effects. We will seek to obtain clinical trial insurance for clinical trials that we conduct, as well as liability insurance for any products that we market. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain insurance in the amounts we seek, or at all. We anticipate that licensees who develop our products will carry liability insurance covering the clinical testing and marketing of those products. There is no assurance, however, that any insurance maintained by us or our licensees will prove adequate in the event of a claim against us. Even if claims asserted against us are unsuccessful, they may divert management’s attention from our operations and we may have to incur substantial costs to defend such claims. 23 Table of Contents Any drugs we develop may become subject to unfavorable pricing regulations, third-party reimbursement practices or healthcare reform initiatives, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We intend to sell our products primarily to hospitals which receive reimbursement for the health care services they provide to their patients from third-party payors, such as Medicare, Medicaid and other domestic and international government programs, private insurance plans and managed care programs. Most third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a medical product was not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods, as determined by the third-party payor, or was used for an unapproved indication. Third-party payors also may refuse to reimburse for experimental procedures and devices. Furthermore, because our programs are in the early stages of development, we are unable at this time to determine their cost-effectiveness and the level or method of reimbursement. Increasingly, the third-party payors who reimburse patients are requiring that drug companies provide them with predetermined discounts from list prices, and are challenging the prices charged for medical products. If the price we are able to charge for any products we develop is inadequate in light of our development and other costs, our profitability could be adversely effected. We currently expect that any drugs we develop may need to be administered under the supervision of a physician. Under currently applicable law, drugs that are not usually self-administered may be eligible for coverage by the Medicare program if: • they are “incidental” to a physician’s services, • they are “reasonable and necessary” for the diagnosis or treatment of the illness or injury for which they are administered according to accepted standard of medical practice, • they are not excluded as immunizations, and • they have been approved by the FDA. There may be significant delays in obtaining insurance coverage for newly-approved drugs, and insurance coverage may be more limited than the purpose for which the drug is approved by the FDA. Moreover, eligibility for insurance coverage does not imply that any drug will be reimbursed in all cases or at a rate that covers our costs, including research, development, manufacture, sale and distribution. Interim payments for new drugs, if applicable, may also not be sufficient to cover our costs and may not be made permanent. Reimbursement may be based on payments for other services and may reflect budgetary constraints or imperfections in Medicare data. Net prices for drugs may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government health care programs or private payors and by any future relaxation of laws that presently restrict imports of drugs from countries where they may be sold at lower prices than in the United States. Third-party payors often rely upon Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates. Our inability to promptly obtain coverage and profitable reimbursement rates from both government-funded and private payors for new drugs that we develop could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, our ability to raise capital needed to develop products, and our overall financial condition. Additionally, third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for medical products and services. A number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in the United States and other major healthcare markets have been proposed in recent years. These proposals have included prescription drug benefit legislation recently enacted in the United States and healthcare reform legislation enacted by certain states. Levels of reimbursement may decrease in the future, and future legislation, regulation or reimbursement policies of third-party payors may adversely affect the demand for and price levels of our products. If our customers are not reimbursed for our products, they may reduce or discontinue purchases of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some states and localities have established drug importation programs for their citizens, and federal drug import legislation has been introduced in Congress. The Medicare Prescription Drug Plan legislation, which became law in December 2003, required the Secretary of Health and Human Services to promulgate 24 Table of Contents regulations for drug reimportation from Canada into the United States under some circumstances, including when the drugs are sold at a lower price than in the United States. The Secretary, however, retained the discretion not to implement a drug reimportation plan if he finds that the benefits do not outweigh the costs, and has so far declined to approve a reimportation plan. Proponents of drug reimportation may attempt to pass legislation that would directly allow reimportation under certain circumstances. Legislation or regulations allowing the reimportation of drugs, if enacted, could decrease the price we receive for any products that we may develop and adversely affect our future revenues and prospects for profitability. If we fail to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel, we may not be able to design, develop, market or sell our products or successfully manage our business. We are highly dependent on our named executive officers and the SAB Members. The continued service of our named executive officers and SAB Members is critical to our success. We have entered into employment agreements with our named executive officers, all of which can be terminated by such persons on short or no notice. The loss of any of our named executive officers or SAB Members, or our inability to identify, attract, retain and integrate additional qualified key personnel, could make it difficult for us to manage our business successfully and achieve our business objectives. Competition for skilled research, product development, regulatory and technical personnel also is intense, and we may not be able to recruit and retain the personnel we need. The loss of the services of any key research, product development, regulatory, and technical personnel, or our inability to hire new personnel with the requisite skills, could restrict our ability to develop our product candidates. We use biological and hazardous materials and if we do not comply with laws regulating the protection of the environment and health and human safety, our business could be adversely affected. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of potentially harmful biological materials as well as hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury; we could be held liable for any damages that result, and any liability could exceed our resources. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and specific waste products. We are also subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations could be significant and may adversely affect capital expenditures to the extent we are required to procure expensive capital equipment to meet regulatory requirements. We are also subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. We maintain workers’ compensation insurance to cover us for costs and expenses we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of these materials. The limits of our workers’ compensation insurance are mandated by state law, and our workers’ compensation liability is capped at these state-mandated limits. We do not maintain insurance for environmental liability or toxic tort claims that may be asserted against us in connection with our storage or disposal of biological, hazardous or radioactive materials. Additional federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting our operations may be adopted in the future. We may incur substantial costs to comply with, and substantial fines or penalties if we violate any of these laws or regulations. Risks Relating to a Publicly Traded Company and Future Financing Needs We may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expected to achieve from our separation from CytRx or to maintain the benefits we previously had as a combined company. As a separate company, we believe that our business will benefit from, among other things, an enhanced ability to compete with other companies dedicated to developing proprietary RNAi therapeutics. However, we may not be able to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expected to achieve as a separate company. For 25 Table of Contents example, we may not be able to raise funds as a separate company that might have been available to a combined company which may have offered a broader investment opportunity to a wider range of potential investors. Nor will we have the direct benefit of CytRx’s relationships with sources of financing. Furthermore, in the past, the business risks associated with our RNAi research and development activities were mitigated, to some extent, by the other technologies and research and development activities of CytRx. As a separate company, we will be more susceptible to specific risks relating to RNAi technologies, and will not have the benefit of the diversification of business and technology risks. In addition, as we prepared to operate as a separate company, we had to bear the cost of establishing our own accounting, human resources and other administrative functions. We may not be able to continue to perform or engage third parties to provide these functions with the same level of expertise and on the same or more favorable terms as they were provided by CytRx in the past. As a result, we could incur additional expenses for such services, and in such event, our business and operations may be adversely affected. You may have difficulty evaluating our business, because we have no history as a separate company and our historical financial information may not be representative of our results as a separate company. The historical financial information included in this annual report does not necessarily reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows that we would have achieved as a separate company during the periods presented or those that we will achieve in the future. Prior to the contribution of our RNAi assets from CytRx, our RNAi research and development activities were conducted by CytRx as part of its broader operations, rather than as an independent division or subsidiary, and were primarily conducted through sponsored research arrangements rather than through internal activities. CytRx also performed various corporate functions relating to our business, as discussed above. Our historical financial information reflects allocations of corporate expenses from CytRx for these and similar functions. We believe that these allocations are comparable to the expenses we would have incurred had we operated as a separate company, although we may incur higher expenses as a separate company. We may not be able to effectively operate as a separate company. We are a discovery-stage company with limited operating history. We will focus solely on developing and, if we obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, commercializing therapeutic products based upon RNAi technologies, and there is no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement our business plan. While our management collectively possesses substantial business experience, there is no assurance that, as a separate company, we will be able to manage our business effectively, or that we will be able to identify, hire and retain any needed additional management or scientific personnel to develop and implement our product development plans, obtain third-party contracts or any needed financing, or achieve the other components of our business plan. The obligations associated with being an independent public company will require significant resources and management attention. As a publicly traded company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In addition, the Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports. Our failure to prepare and disclose this information in a timely manner could subject us to penalties under federal securities laws, expose us to lawsuits and restrict our ability to access financing. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we, among other things, establish and maintain effective internal controls and procedures for financial reporting and we are presently evaluating our existing internal controls in light of the standards adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. In conjunction with BDO Seidman, LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm, we have begun to evaluate our internal control procedures and our auditors have recently identified certain material weaknesses in our internal controls related to the timely reconciliation of our ledgers and preparation and review of our stock option expense calculations. While we do not believe this will be an ongoing problem for us, since as of January 1, 2008 all of our accounting functions have been transferred from CytRx to us, we are making every effort to ensure that all such functions going forward will be executed 26 Table of Contents in a full and timely manner, and that our internal controls and procedures will be in compliance with the PCAOB standards. However, we cannot provide assurances that these efforts will remedy all of the noted material weaknesses that we have inherited from CytRx, or any other potential material weaknesses that have yet to be identified. It is possible that we or our independent registered public accounting firm may identify additional significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. Any failure or difficulties in implementing and maintaining these controls could cause us to fail to meet the periodic reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, starting with our 2008 annual report that we will file with the SEC in 2009. In preparation for this, we may identify deficiencies that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadline for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. Our failure to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 on a timely basis could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business and our common stock. We may not be able to obtain sufficient financing, and may not be able to develop our product candidates. We believe that we have sufficient working capital to fund our currently planned expenditures through the first quarter of 2009; however, in the future we may need to incur debt or issue equity in order to fund these expenditures as well as to make acquisitions and other investments. We cannot assure you that debt or equity financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we cannot or are limited in the ability to incur debt, issue equity or enter in strategic collaborations, we may be unable to fund discovery and development of our product candidates, address gaps in our product offerings or improve our technology. We anticipate that we will need to raise substantial amounts of money to fund a variety of future activities integral to the development of our business, which may include but are not limited to the following: • to conduct research and development to successfully develop our RNAi technologies, • to obtain regulatory approval for our products, • to file and prosecute patent applications and to defend and assess patents to protect our technologies, • to retain qualified employees, particularly in light of intense competition for qualified scientists, • to manufacture products ourselves or through third parties, • to market our products, either through building our own sales and distribution capabilities or relying on third parties, and • to acquire new technologies, licenses or products. We cannot assure you that any needed financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we cannot obtain additional financing in the future, our operations may be restricted and we may ultimately be unable to continue to develop and potentially commercialize our product candidates. Future financing may be obtained through, and future development efforts may be paid for by, the issuance of debt or equity, which may have an adverse effect on our stockholders or may otherwise adversely affect our business. If we raise funds through the issuance of debt or equity, any debt securities or preferred stock issued will have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock in the event of a liquidation. In such event, there is a possibility that once all senior claims are settled, there may be no assets remaining to pay out to the holders of common stock. In addition, if we raise funds through the issuance of additional equity, whether through private placements or public offerings, such an issuance would dilute your ownership in us. 27 Table of Contents The terms of debt securities may also impose restrictions on our operations, which may include limiting our ability to incur additional indebtedness, to pay dividends on or repurchase our capital stock, or to make certain acquisitions or investments. In addition, we may be subject to covenants requiring us to satisfy certain financial tests and ratios, and our ability to satisfy such covenants may be affected by events outside of our control. We expect to continue to incur significant research and development expenses, which may make it difficult for us to attain profitability, and may lead to uncertainty about or as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Substantial funds were expended to develop our RNAi technologies, and additional substantial funds will be required for further research and development, including pre-clinical testing and clinical trials of any product candidates, and to manufacture and market any products that are approved for commercial sale. Because the successful development of our products is uncertain, we are unable to precisely estimate the actual funds we will require to develop and potentially commercialize them. In addition, we may not be able to generate enough revenue, even if we are able to commercialize any of our product candidates, to become profitable. In the event that we are unable to achieve or sustain profitability or to secure additional financing, we may not be able to meet our obligations as they come due, raising substantial doubts as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Any such inability to continue as a going concern may result in our common stock holders losing their entire investment. There is no guaranty that we will become profitable or secure additional financing. We believe that we have adequate capital, in the form of cash on hand and short-term investments, to support our currently planned level of operations through the first quarter of 2009 during which time we expect to expend approximately $6.3 million on research and development activities and approximately $4.6 million on general and administrative expenses. Our financial statements contemplate that we will continue as a going concern and do not contain any adjustments that might result if we were unable to continue as a going concern. Changes in our operating plans, our existing and anticipated working capital needs, the acceleration or modification of our expansion plans, increased expenses, potential acquisitions or other events will all affect our ability to continue as a going concern. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Because there was no public market for our common stock prior to March 12, 2008, the market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile Prior to the distribution and the award, there was no trading market for our common stock and, as a result, the market price of our common stock could be volatile. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including the following factors: • announcements of regulatory developments or technological innovations by us or our competitors, • changes in our relationship with our licensors and other strategic partners, • changes in our ownership or other relationships with CytRx, • our quarterly operating results, • developments in patent or other technology ownership rights, • public concern regarding the safety of our products, • government regulation of drug pricing, and • general changes in the economy, the financial markets or the pharmaceutical or biotechnology industries. In addition, factors beyond our control may also have an impact on the price of our stock. For example, to the extent that other large companies within our industry experience declines in their stock price, our stock 28 Table of Contents price may decline as well. In addition, when the market price of a company’s common stock drops significantly, stockholders often institute securities class action lawsuits against the company. A lawsuit against us could cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of our management and other resources. Future sales of our shares by CytRx or UMMS, or the possibility of such sales, could adversely affect our stock price. CytRx owns 6,268,881 shares of our common stock, or approximately 49% of our outstanding shares. In connection with the Distribution, we agreed to include in the registration statement filed by us relating to the Distribution the shares being registered for resale from time to time by UMMS. We further agreed, subject to some exceptions, to keep the registration statement effective until the shares being offered thereby are eligible to be sold under Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the “Securities Act,” or such earlier date as of which all of the shares have been sold. We also have granted CytRx what are commonly known as “piggyback” registration rights to include our shares currently owned by CytRx, or owned by CytRx in the future as a result of a dividend or distribution with respect to shares currently owned by CytRx, in other registration statements that we may file with the SEC on behalf of our company or our security holders. The availability of our shares held by CytRx and UMMS for resale publicly, as well as any actual sales of these shares, could adversely affect the market price of our shares. If the value of our shares owned by CytRx from time to time were to exceed 40% of the value of CytRx’s total assets, CytRx may be deemed an “investment company” within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940 and become subject to the stringent regulations applicable to investment companies. In this event, CytRx would likely seek to promptly sell or otherwise dispose of shares of our common stock in order to avoid becoming an inadvertent investment company. Any such sales or other disposition by CytRx of our shares, or the possibility of such sales or disposition, could adversely affect the market price of our shares. We have granted CytRx preemptive rights to acquire shares that we may sell in the future, which may impair our ability to raise funds. Under our agreement with CytRx and our founding stockholders, with some exceptions, CytRx has preemptive rights to acquire a portion of any new securities sold or issued by us so as to maintain its percentage ownership of us at the time of any such sale and issuance, which is currently approximately 49% of our outstanding shares. The exercise by CytRx of its preemptive rights may impair our ability to raise funds, or adversely affect the terms on which we are able to raise funds, as we may not be able to offer to new investors the quantity of our stock that they may desire to purchase. CytRx’s ownership of our common stock could delay or prevent a change in corporate control. CytRx owns approximately 49% of our common stock, and has preemptive rights, as described above, to maintain its percentage ownership. CytRx has agreed with UMMS, us and our other founding stockholders to vote its shares of our common stock so that a majority of the members of our board of directors are not affiliated (as defined) with CytRx. However, by virtue of its stock ownership, CytRx may be able to significantly influence the outcome of matters required to be submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including any proposed amendments to our certificate of incorporation and approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may adversely affect the market price of our common stock by: • delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company, • impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving our company, or • discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. 29 Table of Contents CytRx could unilaterally effect a change of control of our company by selling or disposing of our shares owned by it. If CytRx were to sell or otherwise dispose of all or a significant portion of our shares owned by it to a single buyer or group of affiliated buyers, it could effect a change of control of our company without the advice or participation by our board of directors or other stockholders, since transferees of the shares owned by CytRx will not be bound by CytRx’s agreements with UMMS, us and our other founding stockholders not to vote our shares owned by it for the election of a majority of our board of directors who are affiliated with CytRx. Anti-takeover provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and provisions of Delaware law could delay or prevent a change of control that you may favor. Anti-takeover provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and provisions of Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or other change of control that stockholders may consider favorable, or may impede the ability of the holders of our common stock to change our management. These provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, among other things: • divide our board of directors into three classes, with members of each class to be elected for staggered three-year terms, • limit the right of stockholders to remove directors, • regulate how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at annual meetings of stockholders, and • authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock in one or more series, without stockholder approval. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law provides that, subject to limited exceptions, persons that acquire, or are affiliated with a person that acquires, more than 15% of the outstanding voting stock of a Delaware corporation such as our company shall not engage in any business combination with that corporation, including by merger, consolidation or acquisitions of additional shares for a three-year period following the date on which that person or its affiliate crosses the 15% stock ownership threshold. Section 203 could operate to delay or prevent a change of control of our company. We may acquire other businesses or form joint ventures that may be unsuccessful and could adversely dilute your ownership of our company. As part of our business strategy, we may pursue future acquisitions of other complementary businesses and technology licensing arrangements. We also may pursue strategic alliances. We have no experience with respect to acquiring other companies and limited experience with respect to the formation of collaborations, strategic alliances and joint ventures. If we were to make any acquisitions, we may not be able to integrate these acquisitions successfully into our existing business and we could assume unknown or contingent liabilities. We also could experience adverse effects on our reported results of operations from acquisition related charges, amortization of acquired technology and other intangibles and impairment charges relating to write-offs of goodwill and other intangible assets from time to time following the acquisition. Integration of an acquired company also may require management resources that otherwise would be available for ongoing development of our existing business. We may not identify or complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, technology license or strategic alliance. To finance acquisitions, we may choose to issue shares of our common stock as consideration, which would dilute your ownership interest in us. Alternatively, it may be necessary for us to raise additional funds through public or private financings. Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us and, in the case of equity financings, may result in dilution to our stockholders. Any future acquisitions by us 30 Table of Contents also could result in large and immediate write-offs, the incurrence of contingent liabilities or amortization of expenses related to acquired intangible assets, any of which could harm our operating results. 