1A. Risk Factors”, and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Many important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from management’s expectations, including: • adverse developments in general business, economic and political conditions or any outbreak or escalation of hostilities on a national, regional or international basis; • changes in international or U.S. economic conditions, such as inflation, interest rate fluctuations, foreign exchange rate fluctuations or recessions in our markets; • unpredictable difficulties or delays in the development of new product technology; • pricing changes to our supplies or products or those of our competitors, and other competitive pressures on pricing and sales; • adverse developments in the business of our key customers; • changes in the environmental regulations that affect our current and future products; • competition in our existing and future lines of business and the financial resources of competitors; • our failure to comply with regulations and any changes in regulations; • our failure to complete potential future acquisitions or to realize benefits from completed acquisitions; • our ability to access credit markets or capital markets on a favorable basis or at all; • continued turmoil and instability in the credit markets; • our inability to implement our growth plan; • the loss of any of our senior management; • difficulties in obtaining or retaining the management and other human resource competencies that we need to achieve our business objectives; • labor relations; • risks inherent in operating in foreign countries, including exposure to local economic conditions, government regulation, currency restrictions and other restraints, changes in tax laws, expropriation, political instability and diminished ability to legally enforce our contractual rights; • the actual level of commercial vehicle production in our end-markets; • periodic changes to contingent liabilities, including those associated with litigation matters and government investigations; and • a fine assessed by the European Commission in excess of our funding capability at that time. Except for our ongoing obligations to disclose material information under the federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements, to report events or to report the occurrence of unanticipated events unless we are required to do so by law. 1 ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Except as otherwise indicated or unless context otherwise requires “WABCO”, “WABCO Holdings Inc.,” “we,” “us,” “our,” and “our company” refer to WABCO Holdings Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. WABCO is a leading provider of electric and electromechanical products for the world’s leading commercial truck, trailer, bus and passenger car manufacturers. We manufacture and sell control systems, including advanced braking, stability, suspension, transmission control and air compressing and processing systems, that improve vehicle performance and safety and reduce overall vehicle operating costs. Based on internal estimates, we estimate that our products are included in approximately two out of three commercial vehicles with advanced vehicle control systems and offered in sophisticated, niche applications in cars and sport utility vehicles (SUVs). We continue to grow in more parts of the world as we provide more components and systems throughout the life of a vehicle, from design and development to the aftermarket. History of Our Company WABCO was founded in the United States in 1869 as Westinghouse Air Brake Company. We were purchased by American Standard Companies Inc. (or “American Standard”) in 1968 and operated as the Vehicle Control Systems business division within American Standard until we were spun off from American Standard on July 31, 2007. Subsequent to our spin-off, American Standard changed its name to Trane Inc., which we herein refer to as “Trane”. On June 5, 2008, Trane was acquired in a merger with Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited (“Ingersoll Rand”) and exists today as a wholly owned subsidiary of Ingersoll-Rand. The Separation of WABCO from Trane The spin-off by Trane of its Vehicle Control Systems business became effective on July 31, 2007, through a distribution of 100% of the common stock of WABCO to the holders of record of Trane’s common stock on July 19, 2007 (the “Distribution”). The Distribution was effected through a separation and distribution agreement pursuant to which Trane distributed all of the shares of WABCO common stock as a dividend on Trane common stock, in the amount of one share of WABCO common stock for every three shares of outstanding Trane common stock to each stockholder on the record date. Trane received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service and an opinion from tax counsel indicating that the spin-off was tax free to the stockholders of Trane and WABCO. Please refer to Item 1A of Part I “Risk Factors” below for information on the tax risks associated with the spin-off from Trane. Our Relationship with Trane On July 16, 2007, we entered into definitive agreements with Trane (the “Spin-off Agreements”) that, among other things, set forth the terms and conditions of our separation from Trane (“Separation”) and provide a framework for the relationship between WABCO and Trane following the Separation. The Spin-off Agreements govern our relationship with Trane subsequent to the completion of the Separation and provide for the allocation between WABCO and Trane of assets, liabilities and obligations attributable to periods prior to the Separation. In addition to the Separation and Distribution Agreement, which contains many of the key provisions related to the Separation of WABCO and the Distribution of WABCO’s common stock to Trane’s shareholders, the parties also entered into a Tax Sharing Agreement, a Transition Services Agreement, an Employee Matters Agreement and an Indemnification and Cooperation Agreement. A summary of each such agreement is set forth below: Separation and Distribution Agreement – sets forth WABCO’s agreements with Trane regarding principal transactions necessary to separate WABCO from Trane. This agreement also sets forth the other agreements that govern certain aspects of WABCO’s relationship with Trane after the completion of the Separation from Trane and provides for the allocation of certain assets to be transferred, liabilities to be assumed and contracts to be assigned to WABCO and Trane as part of the Separation. 2 Tax Sharing Agreement – governs the parties’ respective rights, responsibilities and obligations after the Distribution with respect to taxes, including ordinary course of business taxes and taxes, if any, incurred as a result of any failure of the Distribution of all of the common shares of WABCO to qualify as a tax-free distribution for U.S. federal income tax purposes within the meaning of Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Transition Services Agreement – governed the orderly transition of WABCO becoming an independent company. Under the Transition Services Agreement, WABCO and Trane agreed to provide each other with various services, including services relating to human resources, payroll, treasury and risk management, environmental technology, tax compliance, telecommunications services and information technology services. The cost of each transition service was generally on the same payment terms and calculated using the same cost allocation methodologies for the particular service as those associated with the costs in the historical financial statements. The majority of the services provided under the transition services agreement expired on February 1, 2008. Employee Matters Agreement – allocates liabilities and responsibilities relating to employee compensation and benefit plans and programs and other related matters in connection with the Separation, including the treatment of outstanding incentive awards and certain retirement and welfare benefit obligations, both in and outside of the United States. For further detail, please refer to Note 5 – Capital Stock in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Indemnification and Cooperation Agreement – Pursuant to this agreement, WABCO Europe BVBA (an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of WABCO), has agreed to be responsible for and to indemnify certain American Standard and Bath and Kitchen companies which were named in a Statement of Objections alleging infringements of European Union competition regulations, as well as their respective affiliates, successors and assigns, against any fines related to the European Commission’s investigation, as outlined in the Statement of Objections received by American Standard and certain of its European subsidiaries on March 28, 2007. For further detail, please refer to Legal Proceedings below and Note 13 – Warranties, Guarantees, Commitments and Contingencies in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Products and Services We develop, manufacture and sell advanced braking, stability, suspension and transmission control systems primarily for commercial vehicles. Our largest-selling products are pneumatic anti-lock braking systems (ABS), electronic braking systems (EBS), automated manual transmission systems, air disk brakes, and a large array of conventional mechanical products such as actuators, air compressors and air control valves for heavy- and medium-sized trucks, trailers and buses. We also supply advanced electronic suspension controls and vacuum pumps to the car and SUV markets in Europe and North America. In addition, we sell replacement parts, diagnostic tools, training and other services to commercial vehicle aftermarket distributors, repair shops, and fleet operators. WABCO is a leader in improving highway safety, with products that help drivers prevent accidents by enhancing vehicle responsiveness and stability. For example, we offer a stability control system for trucks and buses that constantly monitors the vehicle’s motion and dynamic stability. If the system detects vehicle instability such as the driver swerving to avoid another vehicle—it responds by applying the brakes at specific wheels, or slowing the vehicle down to minimize the risk of instability or a rollover. Additionally, we have created the commercial vehicle industry’s first autonomous emergency braking system, OnGuardMAX™, which assists in collision imminent situations with moving or stopped vehicles. This highly technological system fuses data from video and laser sensors, integrates with braking, the engine, transmission and stability control systems to assist the driver in reducing risks of collision. 3 Our key product groups and functions are described below. WABCO KEY PRODUCT GROUPS SYSTEM / PRODUCT FUNCTION Actuator Converts Energy Stored in Compressed Air into Mechanical Force Applied to Foundation Brake to Slow or Stop Commercial Vehicles Air Compressor and Air Processing/Air Management System Provides Compressed, Dried Air for Braking, Suspension and other Pneumatic Systems on Trucks, Buses and Trailers Foundation Brake Transmits Braking Force to a Disc or Drum (Connected to the Wheel) to Slow, Stop or Hold Vehicles Anti-lock Braking System (ABS) Prevents Wheel Locking during Braking to Ensure Steerability and Stability Conventional Braking System Mechanical and Pneumatic Devices for Control of Braking Systems in Commercial Vehicles Electronic Braking System (EBS) Electronic Controls of Braking Systems for Commercial Vehicles Electronic and Conventional Air Suspension Systems Level Control of Air Springs in Trucks, Buses, Trailers and Cars Transmission Automation Automates Transmission Gear Shifting for Trucks and Buses Vehicle Electronic Stability Control (ESC) and Roll Stability Support (RSS) Enhances Driving Stability Key Markets and Trends Electronically controlled products and systems are important for the growth of our business. The market for these products is driven primarily by the growing electronics content of control systems in commercial vehicles. The electronics content has been increasing steadily with each successive platform introduction, as original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) look to improve safety and performance through added functionalities, and meet evolving regulatory safety standards. Overall the trends in commercial vehicle design show a shift in demand towards electronics content. Although the pace varies, this is a trend in all major geographies, and braking systems are part of this broader shift from conventional to advanced electronic systems. In addition to increasing safety, improving stopping distances, and reducing installation complexity, advanced EBS also allow for new functionality to be introduced into vehicles at a lower price. The new functionality includes stability control, adaptive cruise control, automated transmission controls, brake performance warning, vehicle diagnostics, driver assistance systems and engine braking/speed control. Adaptive cruise control uses sensors to detect proximity to other vehicles and automatically adjusts speed. Automated transmission controls reduce the amount of gear shifting, resulting in less physical effort and training required for drivers, less component wear, fewer parts, better fuel efficiency, and enhanced driver safety and comfort. A fundamental driver of demand for our products is commercial truck production. Commercial truck production generally follows a multi-year cyclical pattern. While the number of new commercial vehicles built fluctuates each year, we have over the last five years demonstrated the ability to grow in excess of these fluctuations by increasing the amount of content on each vehicle. During this period, WABCO’s European sales to truck and bus (“T&B”) OEM customers grew at an average annual rate of approximately 11%, excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates and over the period outperformed the Western European T&B production. Year to Year Change 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 AverageChange Sales to European T&B OEMs (at a constant FX rate) +23 % +6 % +10 % +12 % +4 % +11 % Western European T&B Production +19 % +5 % +5 % +10 % +4 % +9 % 4 In the fourth quarter of 2008 the global commercial vehicle markets experienced the beginning of a significant decline that is unprecedented in its breadth, depth and speed. It is currently accelerating into the first part of 2009. The uncertainty of the development of the global economy makes it difficult to predict how demand for commercial vehicles will develop in 2009. Customers We sell our products primarily to four groups of customers around the world: truck and bus (OEMs), trailer (OEMs), commercial vehicle aftermarket distributors for replacement parts and services, and major car manufacturers. Our largest customer is Daimler, which accounts for approximately 15% of our sales. Other key customers include Arvin Meritor, China National Heavy Truck Corporation (CNHTC), Cummins, Fiat (Iveco), Hino, Hyundai, International Truck & Engine Corporation (ITE), MAN Nutzfahrzeuge AG (MAN), Meritor WABCO (a joint venture), Nissan Diesel, Paccar (DAF Trucks N.V. (DAF), Kenworth, Leyland and Peterbuilt), Otto Sauer Achsenfabrik (SAF), Scania, Volvo (Mack and Renault) and ZF Friedrichshafen AG (ZF). For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, our top 10 customers accounted for approximately 56% of our sales. In 2008, WABCO marked another milestone as a global technology leader as the Company began supplying its highly advanced modular automated manual transmission (AMT) system to CNHTC, which became the world’s first original equipment manufacturer to adopt this AMT system in volume production. WABCO was recognized in 2008 with a supplier award for “Commercial Excellence 2007” by Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles in Brazil, in addition to being named “Best Supplier 2007” by KAMAZ, the largest manufacturer of commercial vehicles in the Russian Federation. Finally, WABCO was named Commercial Vehicle Supplier of the Year 2008 in the UK from the Automotive Distribution Federation (ADF), marking the third consecutive year WABCO has earned this award. The largest group of our customers, representing approximately 62% of sales, consists of truck and bus OEMs who are large, increasingly global and few in number due to industry consolidation. As truck and bus OEMs grow globally, they expect suppliers to grow with them beyond their traditional markets and become reliable partners, especially in the development of new technologies. WABCO has a strong reputation for technological innovation and often collaborates closely with major OEM customers to design and develop the technologies used in their products. Our products play an important role in vehicle safety and there are few other suppliers who compete across the breadth of products that we supply. As a result, pricing pressure, though increasing, is generally lower than for providers of more commoditized products or passenger cars and light truck product suppliers. The second largest group, representing approximately 21% of sales, consists of the commercial vehicle aftermarket distributor network that provides replacement parts to commercial vehicle operators. This distributor network is a fragmented and diverse group of customers, covering a broad spectrum from large OE-affiliated or owned distributors to small independent local distributors. The increasing number of commercial trucks in operation world-wide that are equipped with our products continuously increases demand for replacement parts and services, thus generating a growing stream of recurring aftermarket sales. Additionally, we continue to develop an array of service offerings such as diagnostics, training and other services to repair shops and fleet operators that will further enhance our presence and growth in the commercial vehicle aftermarket. The next largest group, representing approximately 13% of sales, consists of trailer manufacturers. Trailer manufacturers are also a fragmented group of local or regional players with great diversity in business size, focus and operation. Trailer manufacturers are highly dependent on suppliers such as WABCO to provide technical expertise and product knowledge. Similar to truck and bus OEMs, trailer manufacturers rely heavily on our products for important safety functions and superior technology. The smallest group, representing approximately 4% of sales, consists of car and SUV manufacturers to whom WABCO sells electronic air suspension systems and vacuum pumps. Electronic air suspension is a luxury feature with increasing penetration and above market growth. Vacuum pumps are used with diesel and GDI engines and, therefore, enjoy higher than average growth rates associated with increasing diesel and GDI applications in Europe and Asia. These customers are typically large, global, sophisticated and demand high product quality and overall service levels. 5 We address our customers through a global sales force that is organized around key accounts and customer groups and interfaces with product marketing and management to identify opportunities and meet customer needs across its product portfolio. Europe represents approximately 76% of our sales, with the remainder coming primarily from the Americas and Asia. Our products are also manufactured in Europe, Asia and in the Americas. WABCO SALES BY GEOGRAPHY MAJOR END-MARKETS • Truck & Bus products (OEMs) • Aftermarket • Trailer Products • Car products % of Sales 62% 21% 13% 4% Backlog Information on our backlog is set forth under Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Backlog” of this annual report. Cyclical and Seasonal Nature of Business Information on the cyclical and seasonal nature of our business is set forth under Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Cyclical and Seasonal Nature of Business” of this annual report. Growth Strategy Our growth strategy is focused on four key platforms: technology innovation, geographic expansion, aftermarket growth and opportunistic automotive application of our products and systems. Drivers of growth for both our aftermarket and advanced car systems are discussed in “Customers” above. Technology We continue to drive growth by utilizing our industry-leading expertise in developing electronically controlled systems, including braking, transmission automation, air suspension and air management systems. We have a strong track record of innovation and are responsible for some of the industry’s most important innovations including: • First heavy-duty truck anti-lock braking system (ABS); • First electronically controlled air suspension (ECAS) system for commercial vehicles; • First commercial vehicle automated manual transmission controls system; • First electronic stability control (ESC) system for commercial vehicles; • First collision safety system with active braking developed for the North American market, based on Adaptive Cruise Control technology (ACC); and • First autonomous emergency braking (AEB) system for commercial vehicles, for collision imminent situations with moving or stopped vehicles. 6 We continue to expand our product and technology portfolio by introducing new products and functionalities, and by improving the penetration of recently launched technologies. Advanced products and functionalities are typically developed and adopted first in Europe and then migrate to North America and Asia. Important examples include the adoption of ABS and automated transmission systems that were first widely adopted in European markets before starting to penetrate North America. Over the last three years, we spent approximately $250 million for research activities, product development and product engineering. We are also focused on longer-term opportunities, particularly in the area of Driver Assistance Systems (DAS). DAS is a technology concept that involves connecting advanced sensors with truck control devices, such as braking and steering systems as well as engine controls, to improve safety and avoid collisions. During 2008, we launched OnGuardMAX™ which is the world’s first autonomous emergency braking system for commercial vehicles and is expected to be available for production in 2010, keeping WABCO well positioned for future growth in this area. Geographic Expansion We continue to drive sales in the high growth markets of Eastern Europe, China and India. In Eastern Europe, we have been manufacturing products since 2001. The market in Eastern Europe, although currently experiencing the effects of the global economic slowdown, has historically experienced rapid growth and we have established relationships with local customers. China is a key long-term growth market for us. Although the current global economic slowdown is impacting China in the near term, the adoption of more advanced braking, safety and other related systems is increasing and the number of trucks built in the country is expected to continue to increase in the longer term. We have been in China since 1996 and are the leading provider of ABS systems, with a strong brand and established customer relationships. In the short-to medium-term, growth will be driven by the enforcement of existing regulations making ABS mandatory on trucks, buses and trailers, of which we are well positioned to take advantage. The introduction of our air compressors to this market helped support our 2008 growth. Additional near term growth will be driven by introducing other new products into the local market such as our new generation air disc brakes, clutch servos and automated manual transmission (AMT) systems. We have begun to supply our highly advanced modular AMT systems to CNHTC in China, further strengthening our ability to grow in this market. To serve the growing demand for products both in China and for export, we have two facilities to manufacture conventional products, advanced systems such as ABS, and new modular air compressors. In addition, we completed a joint venture agreement in December 2008 with Guangdong FUWA Heavy Industry Co., Ltd. (FUWA), which will provide for the production of air disc brakes in China. In order to make sure opportunities in Asia receive enough focus and management attention, we have increased our management presence in the region. India, although currently experiencing the effects of the global economic slowdown, is another future growth market for us due to the number of trucks being built as well as the expected future adoption of more advanced systems in commercial vehicles. We participate in the market through a joint venture with the TVS Group, WABCO-TVS (INDIA) Ltd., which sells primarily conventional braking products, as more advanced systems have only begun to be adopted. India also provides a strong base for sourcing and engineering activities, which we are actively developing. As agreed upon in 2008 with the TVS Group, WABCO will take a majority ownership position in this business by the third quarter of 2009, further strengthening the Company’s presence in this market. The joint venture is described in more detail in the section titled “Joint Ventures.” Competition Given the importance of technological leadership, vehicle life-cycle expertise, reputation for quality and reliability, and the growing joint collaboration between OEMs and suppliers to drive new product development, the space in which we mostly operate has not historically had a large number of competitors. Our principal competitors are Knorr-Bremse (Knorr’s U.S. subsidiary is Bendix Commercial Vehicle Systems) and, in certain categories, Haldex. In the advanced electronics categories, automotive players such as Bosch (automotive) and Continental (including Siemens-VDO) have recently been present in some commercial vehicle applications. In the mechanical product categories, several Asian competitors are emerging, primarily in China, who are focused on low complexity products. 7 Manufacturing and Operations Most of our manufacturing sites and distribution centers produce and/or house a broad range of products and serve all different types of customers. Currently, over 55% of our manufacturing workforce is located in low cost countries such as China and Poland compared with approximately 10% in 1999. Facilities in low cost countries have helped reduce costs on the simpler and more labor-intensive products, while the facilities in Western Europe are focused on producing more technologically advanced products. All facilities globally are deploying Six Sigma Lean initiatives to improve productivity and reduce costs. By applying the Six Sigma philosophy and tools we seek to improve quality and predictability of our process. Lean is geared towards eliminating waste in our supply chain, manufacturing and administrative processes. Both methodologies are customer driven and data based. In addition, our global supply chain team makes decisions on where to manufacture which products taking into account such factors as local and export demand, customer approvals, cost, key supplier locations and factory capabilities. Our global sourcing organization purchases a wide variety of components including electrical, electro-mechanical, cast aluminum products and steel, as well as copper, rubber and plastic containing components that represent a substantial portion of manufacturing costs. We source products on a global basis from three key regions: Western Europe, Central and Eastern Europe and Asia. To support the continuing shift of manufacturing to low cost countries, we also continue to shift more of our sourcing to low cost regions. Under the leadership of the global sourcing organization, which is organized around commodity and product groups, we identify and develop key suppliers and seek to integrate them as partners into our extended enterprise. Many of our Western European suppliers are accompanying us on our move to low cost countries. Since 1999, the share of our sourcing from low cost regions has increased from 10% to approximately 38%. We have developed a strong position in the design, development, engineering and testing of products, components and systems. We are generally regarded in the industry as a systems expert, having in-depth technical knowledge and capabilities to support the development of advanced technology applications. Key customers depend on us and will typically involve us very early in the development process as they begin designing next generation platforms. We have approximately 1,000 employees dedicated to developing new products, components and systems as well as supporting and enhancing current applications. Our sales organization hosts application engineers that are based near customers in all regions around the world and are partially resident at some customer locations. We also have significant resources in low cost countries performing functions such as drawings, testing and software component development. We operate test tracks in Germany, Finland (for extreme weather test conditions) and India (through our India joint venture). Joint Ventures We use joint venture partners globally to expand and enhance our access to customers. Our important joint ventures are: • A 50 percent owned joint venture in North America with Arvin Meritor Automotive Inc. (Meritor WABCO) that markets ABS and other vehicle control products. • A majority-owned (70%) partnership in the U.S. with Cummins Engine Co. (WABCO Compressor Manufacturing Co.), a manufacturing partnership formed to produce air compressors designed by WABCO. • A majority-owned joint venture (70%) in China with Mingshui Automotive Fitting Factory (MAFF) that provides conventional mechanical products to the local market. • A majority-owned joint venture (90%) in Japan with Sanwa-Seiki that distributes WABCO’s products in the local market. • In December 2008, WABCO entered into an agreement with Guangdong FUWA Heavy Industry Co., Ltd., (“FUWA”) to form a joint venture for production of air disc brakes in China. FUWA is the largest manufacturer of commercial trailer axles in China and in the world. WABCO will have a 70 percent holding and FUWA will have a 30 percent holding in the joint venture, which will be located at FUWA’s newly established manufacturing facility in Taishan, Guangdong, China. The joint venture will encompass manufacturing, assembly and testing of air disc brakes for commercial trailers. 8 • Minority equity investments in joint ventures in India, with the TVS Group (39%). The joint venture previously manufactured and sold both brakes and non-brakes related products; however, we and our Indian joint venture partner separated the non-brakes division from the brakes division through a plan of demerger, which was approved by the Madras High Court and became effective on March 28, 2008 under Indian law. As a result of the demerger, the brakes business of Sundaram-Clayton Ltd. (“SCL”) was transferred to a new company, WABCO-TVS (INDIA) Ltd., the shares of which are listed in India as are the shares of SCL. See Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Equity in Net Income of Unconsolidated Joint Ventures and Other Income/(Expense)”, for more detail on the demerger. • A minority equity investment in a joint venture in South Africa, where we have a 49% ownership joint venture with Sturrock & Robson Ltd (WABCO SA), a distributor of braking systems products. Employees We have approximately 7,200 employees. Approximately 55% of our employees are salaried and 45% are hourly. Approximately 80% of our workforce is in Europe, 13% is in Asia, and the remaining 7% is in the Americas. All but approximately 600 of our employees are permanent employees. Approximately 25% of the non-permanent employees are hired through employment agencies and approximately 75% have limited term contracts. Approximately 1,000 employees work in engineering/product development. Employees located in our sites in Europe, Asia and South America are subject to collective bargaining, with internal company agreements or external agreements at the region or country level. Currently 70% of our workforce is covered by a collective bargaining agreement and 50% of those agreements expire within the current year. These employees’ right to strike is typically protected by law and union membership is confidential information which does not have to be provided to the employer. The collective bargaining agreements are typically renegotiated on an annual basis. Our U.S. facilities are non-union. We have maintained good relationships with our employees around the world and historically have experienced very few work stoppages. Intellectual Property Patents and other proprietary rights are important to our business. We also rely upon trade secrets, manufacturing know-how, continuing technological innovations, and licensing opportunities to maintain and improve our competitive position. We review third-party proprietary rights, including patents and patent applications, as available, in an effort to develop an effective intellectual property strategy, avoid infringement of third-party proprietary rights, identify licensing opportunities, and monitor the intellectual property claims of others. We own a large portfolio of patents that principally relate to our products and technologies, and we have, from time to time, licensed some of our patents. Patents for individual products and processes extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in various countries where patent protection is obtained. The WABCO brand is also protected by trademark registrations throughout the world in the key markets in which our products are sold. While we consider our patents and trademarks to be valuable assets, we do not believe that our competitive position is dependent upon patent and trademark protection or that our operations are materially dependent upon any single patent or group of related patents. Environmental Regulation Our operations are subject to local, state, federal and foreign environmental laws and regulations that govern activities or operations that may have adverse environmental effects and which impose liability for clean-up costs resulting from past spills, disposals or other releases of hazardous wastes and environmental compliance. Generally, the international requirements that impact the majority of our operations tend to be no more restrictive than those in effect in the U.S. 9 Throughout the world, we have been dedicated to being an environmentally responsible manufacturer, neighbor and employer. We have a number of proactive programs under way to minimize our impact on the environment and believe that we are in substantial compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Manufacturing facilities are audited on a regular basis. Eleven of our manufacturing facilities have Environmental Management Systems (EMS), which have been certified as ISO 14001 compliant. These facilities are those located in: Claye-Souilly, France Campinas, Brazil Wroclaw, Poland Gronau, Germany Hannover, Germany Jinan, China Leeds, UK Pyungtaek, Korea Qingdao, China Meppel, Netherlands Mannheim, Germany A number of our facilities are undertaking responsive actions to address groundwater and soil issues. Expenditures in 2008 to evaluate and remediate these sites were not material. Additional sites may be identified for environmental remediation in the future, including properties previously transferred and with respect to which the Company may have contractual indemnification obligations. Available Information Our web site is located at www.wabco-auto.com. Our periodic reports and all amendments to those reports required to be filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through the web site. During the period covered by this report, we posted our periodic reports on Form 10-Q and our current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those documents to our web site as soon as such reports were filed or furnished electronically with the SEC. We will continue to post to our web site such reports and amendments as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with or furnished to the SEC. Code of Conduct and Ethics Our Code of Conduct and Ethics, which applies to all employees, including all executive officers and senior financial officers and directors, is posted on our web site www.wabco-auto.com. The Code of Conduct and Ethics is compliant with Item 406 of SEC Regulation S-K and the NYSE corporate governance listing standards. Any changes to the Code of Conduct and Ethics that affect the provisions required by Item 406 of Regulation S-K will also be disclosed on the web site. Any waivers of the Code of Conduct and Ethics for our executive officers, directors or senior financial officers must be approved by our Audit Committee and those waivers, if any are ever granted, would be disclosed on our web site under the caption “Exemptions to the Code of Conduct and Ethics.” There have been no waivers to the Code of Conduct and Ethics. Availability of Corporate Governance Principles and Board of Director Committee Charters The Board of Directors has adopted charters for its Audit Committee and Compensation, Nominating and Governance Committee. The Board has also adopted Corporate Governance Principles and the Company’s Definition of Director Independence. The Corporate Governance Principles, the Company’s Definition of Director Independence, the Code of Conduct and Ethics referenced above, and each of the charters are available on the Company’s web site. These materials, together with the Code of Conduct and Ethics referenced above, are available in print to any shareholder who requests them in writing by contacting the Assistant Secretary of the Company at One Centennial Avenue P.O. Box 6820, Piscataway, New Jersey 08855. NYSE Corporate Governance Certification Pursuant to Rule 303A.12(a) of the New York Stock Exchange’s corporate governance listing standards, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer certified to the New York Stock Exchange in 2008 that he was not aware of any violation by the Company of the NYSE corporate governance listing standards as of the date of such certification. 10 Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 302 Certifications The certification of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of the Company pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 have been filed as exhibits to this Form 10-K. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Any of the following factors could materially adversely affect our future operating results as well as other factors included in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Information Concerning Forward Looking Statements.” Risks Relating to Our Business The current credit crisis and global recession are negatively impacting our customers and could continue to result in reduced demand for our products which has had and could continue to have a significant negative impact on our business. The credit markets have experienced a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by significantly reduced, or even eliminated, availability of credit, increased borrowing costs, and even the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of several large financial institutions. We are now in a recession that is having a global impact. The disruptions in the credit markets and impact of a more prolonged global recession could continue to negatively impact consumer confidence and spending patterns and cause our customers to reduce truck and bus production. This in turn could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations, including our effective tax rate, our operating cash flows and our financial condition. We may be unable to pay any significant fine imposed by the European Commission, if we are unable to access our existing credit facilities or arrange for alternative sources of debt capital. As discussed in greater detail in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition – Liquidity with Regard to European Commission Fine,” and Note 13. “Warranties, Guarantees, Commitments and Contingencies,” we are required to indemnify our former parent company, American Standard, and Ideal Standard International and their respective owners against any fines that may be imposed by the European Commission in connection with a multi-company investigation commenced in 2004 relating to alleged infringement of EU competition rules in the Bath and Kitchen fixtures market. The fine imposed by the Commission could be material to our operating results and cash flows for the year in which the liability would be recognized or the fine paid. In the fourth quarter of 2008, the global commercial vehicle markets experienced the beginning of a significant decline that is unprecedented in its breadth, depth and speed. It is currently accelerating into the first part of 2009. Our existing credit facilities contain a number of covenants that require us to maintain certain defined financial metrics associated with our earnings before we can access the funds available under the facilities. If the current global industry downturn continues to significantly impact our customers negatively and the demand for our products in such a way as to significantly reduce our earnings, we may be unable to access our existing credit facilities due to an inability to meet these financial covenants. In addition, if the current problems in the credit markets persist, we may be unable to access alternative debt capital on favorable terms or at all. If we are unable to access our existing credit facilities, obtain alternative sources of financing, or obtain some payment relief from the Commission or a suspension of the payment obligation from the European Court of First Instance, and the fine exceeds our funding capability at that time, then our financial condition and liquidity would be materially adversely affected. We may be unable to draw down on existing credit facilities if our current lenders fail and we may be unable to access, at all or on acceptable terms, alternative sources of credit, or the debt capital markets due to the global disruptions in these markets. The turmoil in the financial services industry has led to the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of several large financial institutions. Despite an unprecedented level of intervention from both the United States federal government and certain European governments, there can be no assurance that government responses to this crisis will stabilize 11 the credit and debt capital markets or increase liquidity and the availability of credit generally. Our ability to meet significant obligations, such as the payment of any significant fine which may be imposed by the European Commission as discussed immediately above, depends on the financial health of our lenders, their ability to meet their own obligations under our credit facilities and the availability of the credit markets generally. Our sales could decline due to macro-economic factors, cyclicality of the industry, regulatory changes and other factors outside of our control. Changes in economic conditions, cyclical downturns in our industry, regulatory changes impacting the purchasing patterns of commercial vehicles, and changes in the local economies of the countries or regions in which we sell our products, such as changes in consumer confidence, increases in interest rates and increases in unemployment, many of which are now occurring as a result of the global recession, are likely to further affect demand for our products, which could negatively affect our business and results of operations. Demand for new trucks and buses in the markets in which we operate has a significant impact on our sales. While in the last few years and well into 2008, heavy truck and bus production had increased in our largest market (Western Europe), this market along with others has been significantly affected by the downturn. In 2008, Western Europe accounted for approximately 52% of our total sales, and North America accounted for approximately 8% of our total sales. The adverse economic conditions in our markets, particularly in Western Europe, and other factors has caused our customers to reduce truck and bus production, which will continue to have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cashflows until conditions improve. Our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations on cross border transactions and the translation of local currency results into U.S. dollars could negatively impact our results of operations. We conduct business through subsidiaries in many different countries, and fluctuations in currency exchange rates have a significant impact on the reported results of our operations, which are presented in U.S. dollars. In 2008, approximately 94% of our combined sales occurred outside of the United States. A significant and growing portion of our products are manufactured in lower-cost locations and sold in various countries. Cross border transactions, both with external parties and intercompany relationships, result in increased exposure to foreign currency exchange effects. Accordingly, significant changes in the exchange rates of the euro, U.S. dollar and other applicable currencies could cause fluctuations in the reported results of our operations that could negatively affect our results of operations. Additionally, our results of operations are translated into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes. The strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar results in favorable or unfavorable translation effects as the results of foreign locations are translated into U.S. dollars. In addition to our natural hedge from U.S. dollar transactions as discussed in Item 7A. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” below, we also entered into a cross currency swap to hedge a particular foreign exchange exposure. See Note 12-Debt for further details. We are subject to general risks associated with our foreign operations. In addition to the currency exchange risks inherent in operating in many different foreign countries, there are other risks inherent in our international operations. The risks related to our foreign operations that we more often face in the normal course of business include: • changes in non-U.S. tax law, increases in non-U.S. tax rates and the amount of non-U.S. earnings relative to total combined earnings could change and impact our combined tax rate; • foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, price or exchange controls, or other restrictions; • general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate may have an adverse effect on our operations in those countries; and • we may have difficulty complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, some of which may conflict with United States law, and the uncertainty created by this legal environment could limit our ability to effectively enforce our rights in certain markets. The ability to manage these risks could be difficult and may limit our operations and make the manufacture and distribution of our products internationally more difficult, which could negatively affect our business and results of operations. 12 If we are unable to obtain component parts or obtain them at reasonable price levels, our ability to maintain existing sales margins may be affected. We purchase a broad range of materials and components throughout the world in connection with our manufacturing activities. Major items include electronic components and parts containing aluminum, steel, copper, zinc, rubber and plastics. The cost of components and parts, and the raw materials used therein, represents a significant portion of our total costs. Price increases of the underlying commodities may adversely affect our results of operations. Although we maintain alternative sources for components and parts, our business is subject to the risk of price fluctuations and periodic delays in the delivery of certain raw materials. This risk is increasing due to the current global recession, which is already impacting some suppliers. The sudden inability of a supplier to deliver components or to do so at reasonable prices could have a temporary adverse effect on our production of certain products or the cost at which we can produce those products. Any change in the supply or price of raw materials could materially adversely affect our future business and results of operations. If we are not able to maintain good relations with our employees, we could suffer work stoppages that could negatively affect our business and results of operations. Employees located in our sites in Europe, Asia and South America are subject to collective bargaining, with internal company agreements or external agreements at the region or country level. These employees’ right to strike is typically protected by law and union membership is confidential information which does not have to be provided to the employer. Our U.S. facilities are non-union. Any disputes with our employee base could result in work stoppages or labor protests, which could disrupt our operations. Any such labor disputes could negatively affect our business and results of operations. We are dependent on key customers. We rely on several key customers. For the fiscal year ending December 31, 2008, our top ten customers accounted for 56% of our sales, and our top three customers, accounted for approximately 15%, 10% and 5%, respectively, of our sales. This includes sales to our 50%-owned Meritor WABCO joint venture in North America. Many of our customers place orders for products on an as-needed basis and operate in cyclical industries and, as a result, their order levels have varied from period to period in the past and may vary significantly in the future. Such customer orders are dependent upon their markets and customers and may be subject to delays or cancellations. As a result of dependence on our key customers, we have experienced to some degree and could experience in the future a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations if any of the following were to occur: • the loss of any key customer, in whole or in part; • a declining market in which customers reduce orders or demand reduced prices; or • a strike or work stoppage at a key customer facility, which could affect both their suppliers and customers. If there are changes in the environmental or other regulations that affect one or more of our current or future products, it could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. We are currently subject to various environmental and other regulations in the U.S. and internationally. A risk of environmental liability is inherent in our current and former manufacturing activities. Under certain environmental laws, we could be held jointly and severally responsible for the remediation of any hazardous substance contamination at our past and present facilities and at third party waste disposal sites and could also be held liable for damages to natural resources and any consequences arising out of human exposure to such substances or other environmental damage. While we have a number of proactive programs underway to minimize the impact of the production and use of our products on the environment and believe that we are in substantial compliance with environmental laws and regulations, we cannot predict whether there will be changes in the environmental regulations affecting our products. Any changes in the environmental and other regulations which affect our current or future products could have a negative impact on our business if we are unable to adjust our product offering to comply with such regulatory changes. In addition, it is possible that we will incur increased costs as a result of complying with environmental regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 13 We may be subject to product liability and warranty and recall claims, which may increase the costs of doing business and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to a risk of product liability or warranty claims if our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected or the use of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or property damage. While we maintain reasonable limits of insurance coverage to appropriately respond to such exposures, large product liability claims, if made, could exceed our insurance coverage limits and insurance may not continue to be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. We cannot assure you that we will not incur significant costs to defend these claims or that we will not experience any product liability losses in the future. In addition, if any of our designed products are or are alleged to be defective, we have been required to participate in recalls and exchanges of such products in the past and we may be in the future. In the past five years, our warranty expense has fluctuated between approximately 1.3% and 2.6% of sales on an annual basis. Individual quarters were above or below the annual averages. The future cost associated with providing product warranties and/or bearing the cost of repair or replacement of our products could exceed our historical experience and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are required to plan our capacity well in advance of production and our success depends on having available capacity and effectively using it. We principally compete for new business at the beginning of the development of our customers’ new products. Our customers’ new product development generally begins significantly prior to the marketing and production of their new products and our supply of our products generally lasts for the life of our customers’ products. Nevertheless, our customers may move business to other suppliers or request price reductions during the life cycle of a product. The long development and sales cycle of our new products, combined with the specialized nature of many of our facilities and the resulting difficulty in shifting work from one facility to another, could result in variances in capacity utilization. In order to meet our customers’ requirements, we may be required to supply our customers regardless of cost and consequently we may suffer an adverse impact on our operating profit margins and results of operations. We must continue to make technological advances, or we may not be able to successfully compete in our industry. We operate in an industry in which technological advancements are necessary to remain competitive. Accordingly, we devote substantial resources to improve already technologically complex products and to remain a leader in technological innovation. However, if we fail to continue to make technological improvements or our competitors develop technologically superior products, it could have an adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition. Risks Relating to the Separation We have limited operating history as a separate public company and our historical financial information prior to Separation is not necessarily representative of the results we would have achieved as a separate public company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. The historical financial information included in this annual report does not fully reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows that we would have achieved as a separate publicly traded company during the periods presented or those that we will achieve in the future primarily as a result of the following factors: • Prior to our Separation, our business was operated by Trane as part of its broader corporate organization, rather than as an independent company. Trane and certain of its affiliates performed various corporate functions for us, including, but not limited to, tax administration, certain governance functions (including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and internal audit) and external reporting, and human resource administration. Our historical and pro forma financial results reflect allocations of corporate expenses from Trane for these and similar functions. These allocations may be more or less than the comparable expenses we believe we would have incurred had we operated as a separate publicly traded company. • Other significant changes may occur in our cost structure, management, financing and business operations as a result of our operating as a company separate from Trane. 14 We have experienced and will continue to experience increased costs as a result of the Separation. A significant portion of the expenses to effect the separation were incurred by Trane, such as investment banking fees, external legal and accounting fees, legal reorganization and restructuring tax costs to separate information systems and temporary consulting costs. WABCO incurred separation costs such as indemnification and other tax related costs, stock compensation expense relating to the Distribution, external legal and consulting fees, and other items. WABCO also expects to incur costs relating to the European Commission fine. If the distribution of our shares were to fail to qualify as tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Section 355 of the Code (the “Code”), then our shareholders, we or Trane may be required to pay U.S. federal income taxes. Trane has received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) substantially to the effect that the Distribution qualifies as tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Section 355 of the Code. In addition, Trane has received an opinion of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, tax counsel to Trane, substantially to the effect that the Distribution will qualify as tax-free to Trane, us and our shareholders under Section 355 and related provisions of the Code. The ruling and opinion are based on, among other things, certain assumptions as well as on the accuracy of certain factual representations and statements made by Trane and the Company. In rendering its ruling, the IRS also relied on certain covenants that the Company and Trane entered into, including the adherence to certain restrictions on Trane’s and the Company’s future actions. Notwithstanding receipt by Trane of the private letter ruling and the opinion of counsel, the IRS could assert that the Distribution should be treated as a taxable transaction. If the Distribution fails to qualify for tax-free treatment, then Trane would recognize a gain in an amount equal to the excess of (i) the fair market value of our common stock distributed to the Trane shareholders over (ii) Trane’s tax basis in such common stock. Under the terms of the Tax Sharing Agreement, in the event the Distribution were to fail to qualify as a tax-free reorganization and such failure was not the result of actions taken after the distribution by Trane or any of its subsidiaries or shareholders, we would be responsible for all taxes imposed on Trane as a result thereof. In addition, each Trane shareholder who received our common stock in the Distribution generally would be treated as having received a taxable Distribution in an amount equal to the fair market value of our common stock received (including any fractional share sold on behalf of the shareholder), which would be taxable as a dividend to the extent of the shareholder’s ratable share of Trane’s current and accumulated earnings and profits (as increased to reflect any current income including any gain recognized by Trane on the taxable distribution). The balance, if any, of the Distribution would be treated as a nontaxable return of capital to the extent of the Trane shareholder’s tax basis in its Trane stock, with any remaining amount being taxed as capital gain. We have agreed to certain restrictions to preserve the treatment of the distribution of our common stock as tax-free to Trane and its shareholders, which will reduce our strategic and operating flexibility. In connection with the Separation, we entered in to a Tax Sharing Agreement with Trane, which includes covenants that we shall not take actions that could cause the Distribution to fail to qualify as a tax-free transaction, including, in certain cases, redeeming equity securities, selling or otherwise disposing of a substantial portion of our assets or acquiring businesses or assets with equity securities (or entering into negotiations or agreements with respect to such transactions), in each case, for a period of 24 months from the day after the Distribution. We, however, may undertake any such action if we first obtain the consent of Trane or an opinion of counsel or a private letter ruling that such action will not adversely affect any conclusion in the private letter ruling or opinion of counsel issued in connection with the distribution. Moreover, the Tax Sharing Agreement generally provides that we will be responsible for any taxes imposed on Trane or us as a result of the failure of the Distribution to qualify as tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Section 355 of the Code unless such failure is attributable to certain post-distribution actions taken by Trane (including its subsidiaries) or its shareholders. We are responsible for certain of Trane’s contingent and other corporate liabilities. Under the Indemnification and Cooperation Agreement, the Separation and Distribution Agreement and the Tax Sharing Agreement, our wholly-owned subsidiary WABCO Europe BVBA has assumed and is responsible for certain contingent liabilities related to Trane’s business (including certain associated costs and expenses, whether 15 arising prior to, at or after the Distribution) and will indemnify Trane for these liabilities. Among the contingent liabilities against which we will indemnify Trane and the other indemnities, are liabilities associated with an investigation into alleged infringement of European Union competition regulations, certain non-U.S. tax liabilities and certain U.S. and non-U.S. environmental liabilities associated with certain Trane entities. We will indemnify Trane, Ideal Standard International, including certain former European subsidiaries and affiliates of the former American Standard group, and their respective owners against any fines associated with an investigation into alleged infringement of European Union competition regulations. As part of a multi-company investigation, American Standard and certain of its European subsidiaries engaged in the Bath and Kitchen business have been charged by the European Commission for alleged infringements of European Union competition rules relating to the distribution of bathroom fixtures and fittings in a number of European countries. Pursuant to the Indemnification and Cooperation Agreement, WABCO Europe BVBA (an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of WABCO) will be responsible for, and will indemnify American Standard (now Trane) and Ideal Standard International (including certain subsidiaries engaged, or formerly engaged in the Bath and Kitchen business) and their respective affiliates against any fines related to this investigation. See “Item 3—Legal Proceedings” for additional discussion of the procedural history, response, hearing and appeals process related to the European Commission investigation. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Your percentage ownership in WABCO may be diluted in the future. Your percentage ownership in WABCO may be diluted in the future because of equity awards that have already been granted and that we expect will be granted to our directors and officers in the future. Prior to the Separation and record date for the Distribution, Trane approved an Omnibus Incentive Plan, which provides for the grant of equity-based awards, including restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock options, stock appreciation rights, phantom equity awards and other equity-based awards to our directors, officers and other employees. After the Separation and record date for the Distribution, WABCO has approved its own Omnibus Incentive Plan. In the future, we may issue additional equity securities, subject to limitations imposed by the Tax Sharing Agreement, in order to fund working capital needs, capital expenditures and product development, or to make acquisitions and other investments, which may dilute your ownership interest. We cannot assure you that we will pay any dividends or repurchase shares. While we currently expect to return value to our shareholders in the form of dividends, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient surplus under Delaware law to pay any dividends. While we have historically returned value to shareholders in the form of share repurchases, our ability to repurchase shares will be limited by available cash and surplus. Moreover, all decisions regarding the declaration and payment of dividends and share repurchases will be at the sole discretion of our Board and will be evaluated from time to time in light of our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements of our business, covenants associated with certain debt obligations, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, industry practice and other factors that our Board deems relevant. Our shareholder rights plan and provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws, and of Delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated by-laws and Delaware law contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the raider and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include, among others: • a Board of Directors that is divided into three classes with staggered terms; • elimination of the right of our shareholders to act by written consent; • rules regarding how shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareholder meetings; 16 • the right of our Board to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval; and • limitations on the right of shareholders to remove directors. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. On July 13, 2007, our Board adopted a shareholder rights plan, which provides, among other things, that when specified events occur, our shareholders will be entitled to purchase from us a newly created series of junior preferred stock. The preferred stock purchase rights are triggered by the earlier to occur of (i) ten business days (or a later date determined by our Board of Directors before the rights are separated from our common stock) after the public announcement that a person or group has become an “acquiring person” by acquiring beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock or (ii) ten business days (or a later date determined by our Board before the rights are separated from our common stock) after a person or group begins a tender or exchange offer that, if completed, would result in that person or group becoming an acquiring person. The issuance of preferred stock pursuant to the shareholder rights plan would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. We believe these provisions protect our shareholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board and by providing our Board with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make our company immune from takeovers. However, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our Board determines is not in the best interests of our company and our shareholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 