ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Any of the following factors could have a material adverse affect on our future operating results as well as other factors included in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Information Concerning Forward Looking Statements.” Risks Relating to Our Business Our sales could decline due to macro-economic factors, cyclicality of the industry, regulatory changes and other factors outside of our control. Changes in economic conditions, cyclical downturns in our industry, regulatory changes impacting the purchasing patterns of commercial vehicles, and changes in the local economies of the countries or regions in which we sell our products, such as changes in consumer confidence, increases in interest rates and increases in unemployment, could affect demand for our products, which could negatively affect our business and results of operations. Demand for new trucks and buses in the markets in which we operate has a significant impact on our sales. In 2010, heavy truck and bus production has increased in Western Europe, our largest market which accounted for approximately 54% of our total sales. Adverse economic conditions in our markets, particularly in Western Europe, and other factors may cause our customers to reduce truck and bus production, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A global recession would negatively impact our customers and result in reduced demand for our products, which would therefore have a significant negative impact on our business. During the recent global recession, the credit markets experienced a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by significantly reduced availability of credit and increased borrowing costs. The disruptions in the credit markets and impacts of the global recession negatively impacted consumer spending patterns and caused our customers to reduce truck and bus production. While the commercial vehicle industry experienced a significant recovery in 2010, a further or “double dip” global recession could result in tightening of the still-fragile credit markets, which would cause our customers to again reduce truck and bus production, which would have a negative impact on our business and results of operations, our operating cash flows and our financial condition. Our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations on cross border transactions and the translation of local currency results into U.S. dollars could negatively impact our results of operations. We conduct business through subsidiaries in many different countries, and fluctuations in currency exchange rates have a significant impact on the reported results of our operations, which are presented in U.S. dollars. In 2010, approximately 92% of our combined sales occurred outside of the United States. A significant and growing portion of our products are manufactured in lower-cost locations and sold in various countries. Cross border transactions, both with external parties and intercompany relationships, result in increased exposure to foreign currency exchange effects. Accordingly, significant changes in the exchange rates of the euro, U.S. dollar and other applicable currencies could cause fluctuations in the reported results of our operations that could negatively affect our results of operations. Additionally, our results of operations are translated into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes. The strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar results in unfavorable or favorable translation effects as the results of foreign locations are translated into U.S. dollars. We are subject to general risks associated with our foreign operations. In addition to the currency exchange risks inherent in operating in many different foreign countries, there are other risks inherent in our international operations. The risks related to our foreign operations that we more often face in the normal course of business include: • changes in non-U.S. tax law, increases in non-U.S. tax rates and the amount of non-U.S. earnings relative to total combined earnings could change and impact our combined tax rate; 10 Table of Contents • foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, price or exchange controls, or other restrictions; • general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate may have an adverse effect on our operations in those countries; • we may have difficulty complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, some of which may conflict with United States law, and the uncertainty created by this legal environment could limit our ability to effectively enforce our rights in certain markets; and • in several of the countries in which we do business, we rely upon the ongoing performance of our joint venture partners who bear risks similar to the risks of the Company and also may include obligations they have under related shareholders’ agreements and risk of being denied access to the capital markets which could lead to resource demands on the Company in order to maintain or advance its strategy. The ability to manage these risks could be difficult and may limit our operations and make the manufacture and distribution of our products internationally more difficult, which could negatively affect our business and results of operations. If we are unable to obtain component parts or obtain them at reasonable price levels, our ability to maintain existing sales margins may be affected. We purchase a broad range of materials and components throughout the world in connection with our manufacturing activities. Major items include electronic components and parts containing aluminum, steel, copper, zinc, rubber and plastics. The cost of components and parts, and the raw materials used therein, represents a significant portion of our total costs. Price increases of the underlying commodities may adversely affect our results of operations. Although we maintain alternative sources for components and parts, our business is subject to the risk of price fluctuations and periodic delays in the delivery of certain raw materials. The sudden inability of a supplier to deliver components or to do so at reasonable prices could have a temporary adverse effect on our production of certain products or the cost at which we can produce those products. Any change in the supply or price of raw materials could materially adversely affect our future business and results of operations. If we are not able to maintain good relations with our employees, we could suffer work stoppages that could negatively affect our business and results of operations. Employees located in our sites in Europe, Asia and South America are subject to collective bargaining, with internal company agreements or external agreements at the region or country level. Currently 60% of our workforce is covered by collective bargaining agreements and most of those agreements expire during 2011. These employees’ right to strike is typically protected by law and union membership is confidential information which does not have to be provided to the employer. Our U.S. facilities are non-union. Any disputes with our employee base could result in work stoppages or labor protests, which could disrupt our operations. Any such labor disputes could negatively affect our business and results of operations. We are dependent on key customers. We rely on several key customers. For the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010, sales to our top three customers accounted for approximately 13% (Daimler), 10% (Volvo) and 6% (Meritor WABCO – our 50%-owned joint venture in North America), respectively, of our sales, and sales to our top ten customers accounted for approximately 51% of our sales. Many of our customers place orders for products on an as-needed basis and operate in cyclical industries and, as a result, their order levels have varied from period to period in the past and may vary significantly in the future. Such customer orders are dependent upon their markets and customers and may be subject to delays or cancellations. As a result of dependence on our key customers, we have experienced and could experience in the future a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations if any of the following were to occur: • the loss of any key customer, in whole or in part; • a declining market in which customers reduce orders or demand reduced prices; or • a strike or work stoppage at a key customer facility, which could affect both its suppliers and customers. 11 Table of Contents If there are changes in the environmental or other regulations that affect one or more of our current or future products, it could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. We are currently subject to various environmental and other regulations in the U.S. and internationally. A risk of environmental liability is inherent in our current and former manufacturing activities. Under certain environmental laws, we could be held jointly and severally responsible for the remediation of any hazardous substance contamination at our past and present facilities and at third party waste disposal sites and could also be held liable for damages to natural resources and any consequences arising out of human exposure to such substances or other environmental damage. While we have a number of proactive programs underway to minimize the impact of the production and use of our products on the environment and believe that we are in substantial compliance with environmental laws and regulations, we cannot predict whether there will be changes in the environmental regulations affecting our products. Any changes in the environmental and other regulations which affect our current or future products could have a negative impact on our business if we are unable to adjust our product offering to comply with such regulatory changes. In addition, it is possible that we will incur increased costs as a result of complying with environmental regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be subject to product liability and warranty and recall claims, which may increase the costs of doing business and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to a risk of product liability or warranty claims if our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected or the use of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or property damage. While we maintain reasonable limits of insurance coverage to appropriately respond to such exposures, large product liability claims, if made, could exceed our insurance coverage limits and insurance may not continue to be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. We cannot assure you that we will not incur significant costs to defend these claims or that we will not experience any product liability losses in the future. In addition, if any of our designed products are or are alleged to be defective, we may be required to participate in recalls and exchanges of such products. In the past five years, our warranty expense has fluctuated between approximately 1.3% and 2.4% of sales on an annual basis. Individual quarters were above or below the annual averages. The future cost associated with providing product warranties and/or bearing the cost of repair or replacement of our products could exceed our historical experience and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are required to plan our capacity well in advance of production and our success depends on having available capacity and effectively using it. We principally compete for new business at the beginning of the development of our customers’ new products. Our customers’ new product development generally begins significantly prior to the marketing and production of their new products and our supply of our products generally lasts for the life of our customers’ products. Nevertheless, our customers may move business to other suppliers or request price reductions during the life cycle of a product. The long development and sales cycle of our new products, combined with the specialized nature of many of our facilities and the resulting difficulty in shifting work from one facility to another, could result in variances in capacity utilization. In order to meet our customers’ requirements, we may be required to supply our customers regardless of cost and consequently we may suffer an adverse impact on our operating profit margins and results of operations. We must continue to make technological advances, or we may not be able to successfully compete in our industry. We operate in an industry in which technological advancements are necessary to remain competitive. Accordingly, we devote substantial resources to improve already technologically complex products and to remain a leader in technological innovation. However, if we fail to continue to make technological improvements or our competitors develop technologically superior products, it could have an adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition. 12 Table of Contents Risks Relating to the Separation We have agreed to indemnify Trane for taxes and related losses resulting from certain actions that may cause the Distribution to fail to qualify as a tax-free transaction. Trane has received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) substantially to the effect that the Distribution qualifies as tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code (“the Code”). In addition, Trane has received an opinion of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, tax counsel to Trane, substantially to the effect that the Distribution will qualify as tax-free to Trane, us and our shareholders under Section 355 and related provisions of the Code. The ruling and opinion were based on, among other things, certain assumptions as well as on the accuracy of certain factual representations and statements made by Trane and the Company. In rendering its ruling, the IRS also relied on certain covenants that the Company and Trane entered into, including the adherence to certain restrictions on Trane’s and the Company’s future actions. Notwithstanding receipt by Trane of the private letter ruling and the opinion of counsel, the IRS could assert that the Distribution should be treated as a taxable transaction. If the Distribution fails to qualify for tax-free treatment, then Trane would recognize a gain in an amount equal to the excess of (i) the fair market value of our common stock distributed to the Trane shareholders over (ii) Trane’s tax basis in such common stock. Under the terms of the Tax Sharing Agreement, in the event the Distribution were to fail to qualify as a tax-free reorganization and such failure was not the result of actions taken after the distribution by Trane or any of its subsidiaries or shareholders, we would be responsible for all taxes imposed on Trane as a result thereof. In addition, each Trane shareholder who received our common stock in the Distribution generally would be treated as having received a taxable Distribution in an amount equal to the fair market value of our common stock received (including any fractional share sold on behalf of the shareholder), which would be taxable as a dividend to the extent of the shareholder’s ratable share of Trane’s current and accumulated earnings and profits (as increased to reflect any current income including any gain recognized by Trane on the taxable distribution). The balance, if any, of the Distribution would be treated as a nontaxable return of capital to the extent of the Trane shareholder’s tax basis in its Trane stock, with any remaining amount being taxed as capital gain. Our obligation to indemnify Trane under the Tax Sharing Agreement if the Distribution fails to qualify for tax-free treatment could be substantial if triggered, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are responsible for certain of Trane’s contingent and other corporate liabilities. Under the Indemnification and Cooperation Agreement, the Separation and Distribution Agreement and the Tax Sharing Agreement, our wholly-owned subsidiary WABCO Europe BVBA has assumed and is responsible for certain contingent liabilities related to Trane’s business (including certain associated costs and expenses, whether arising prior to, at or after the Distribution) and will indemnify Trane for these liabilities. Among the contingent liabilities against which we will indemnify Trane and the other indemnities, are liabilities associated with certain non-U.S. tax liabilities and certain U.S. and non-U.S. environmental liabilities associated with certain Trane entities. We will indemnify Trane, Ideal Standard International, including certain former European subsidiaries and affiliates of the former American Standard group, and their respective owners against any fines associated with an investigation into alleged infringement of European Union competition regulations. As part of a multi-company investigation, American Standard and certain of its European subsidiaries engaged in the Bath and Kitchen business were charged by the European Commission for alleged infringements of European Union competition rules relating to the distribution of bathroom fixtures and fittings in a number of European countries. Pursuant to the Indemnification and Cooperation Agreement, WABCO Europe BVBA (an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of WABCO) will be responsible for, and will indemnify American Standard (now Trane) and Ideal Standard International (including certain subsidiaries engaged, or formerly engaged in the Bath and Kitchen business) and their respective affiliates. As required by the Indemnification and Cooperation agreement, WABCO paid the fine amount into escrow on August 30, 2010 and those funds were subsequently released from escrow and paid to the Commission. After reviewing all of the elements of the case, WABCO decided to appeal the decision in order to try to have the fine reduced. On September 8, 2010, WABCO filed its appeal in the General Court of the European Union, located in Luxembourg. It is expected that a decision on the appeal will take at least four years. See Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” for additional discussion of the procedural history, response, hearing and appeals process related to the European Commission investigation. 13 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Your percentage ownership in WABCO may be diluted in the future. Your percentage ownership in WABCO may be diluted in the future because of equity awards that have already been granted and that we expect will be granted to our directors and officers in the future under our Omnibus Incentive Plan. In addition, we may in the future issue additional equity securities, subject to limitations imposed by the Tax Sharing Agreement, in order to fund working capital needs, capital expenditures and product development, or to make acquisitions and other investments, which may dilute your ownership interest. We cannot assure you that we will pay any dividends or repurchase shares. While we have historically returned value to shareholders in the form of share repurchases and dividends, our ability to repurchase shares and pay dividends is limited by available cash, contingent liabilities and surplus. Moreover, all decisions regarding the declaration and payment of dividends and share repurchases will be at the sole discretion of our Board and will be evaluated from time to time in light of our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements of our business, covenants associated with certain debt obligations, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, industry practice and other factors that our Board deems relevant. Our shareholder rights plan and provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws, and of Delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated by-laws and Delaware law contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the raider and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include, among others: • a Board of Directors that is divided into three classes with staggered terms; • elimination of the right of our shareholders to act by written consent; • rules regarding how shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareholder meetings; • the right of our Board to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval; and • limitations on the right of shareholders to remove directors. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. On July 13, 2007, our Board adopted a shareholder rights plan, which provides, among other things, that when specified events occur, our shareholders will be entitled to purchase from us a newly created series of junior preferred stock. The preferred stock purchase rights are triggered by the earlier to occur of (i) ten business days (or a later date determined by our Board of Directors before the rights are separated from our common stock) after the public announcement that a person or group has become an “acquiring person” by acquiring beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock or (ii) ten business days (or a later date determined by our Board before the rights are separated from our common stock) after a person or group begins a tender or exchange offer that, if completed, would result in that person or group becoming an acquiring person. The issuance of preferred stock pursuant to the shareholder rights plan would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. We believe these provisions protect our shareholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board and by providing our Board with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make our company immune from takeovers. However, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our Board determines is not in the best interests of our company and our shareholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 14 Table of Contents 