Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to numerous risks. We caution you that the following important factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed statements made by us or on our behalf in filings with the SEC, press releases, communications with investors and oral statements. Any or all of our statements in this annual report and in any other public statements we make may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors mentioned in the discussion below will be important in determining future results. Consequently, actual future results may vary materially from those anticipated in this annual report. 16 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Galena’s Business and Industry We recently changed our strategic focus, and the anticipated benefits of our new strategic focus may not be realized. You may have difficulty evaluating our business, because we acquired Apthera only in the past year and are undertaking to partially spin off RXi. Following the partial spin-off, our financial statements will no longer reflect the consolidated financial condition and results of operations of RXi, and we will account for our partial ownership of RXi based on the cost method of accounting. For these reasons, the historical consolidated financial information included in this annual report do not necessarily reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows that we will achieve in the future. On September 24, 2011, we contributed to RXi substantially all of our RNAi-related technologies and assets and entered into a number of agreements in contemplation of the partial spin-off of RXi. RXi will focus solely on developing and commercializing therapeutic products based on our RNAi technologies for the treatment of human diseases, including fibrotic disease. There is no assurance that the partial spin-off of RXi will be completed or that RXi will be able to succeed as a stand-alone company. There also is no assurance that we will be successful in implementing our new focus as an oncology product development pipeline company. For a discussion of the risks and uncertainties regarding the proposed partial spin-off of RXi, see “Risks Relating to the Partial Spin-Off of RXi,” below in this section. We are largely dependent on the success of our two leading drug candidates neither of which may receive regulatory approval or be successfully commercialized. Our business prospects depend heavily on successfully developing and commercializing our lead product candidate, NeuVax. On May 8, 2009, we submitted an SPA for a Phase 3 clinical trial for NeuVax, but did not include required chemistry, manufacturing, and controls (“CMC”) information. In July 2009, FDA placed our IND application for a Phase 3 trial for NeuVax on partial clinical hold pending submission of the missing CMC information. We submitted the CMC information August 8, 2011, and the FDA removed the partial clinical hold on September 7, 2011, allowing us to proceed with the Phase 3 clinical trial. The FDA has agreed in the SPA for our Phase 3 PRESENT clinical trial of NeuVax that the design, resulting data, and planned analyses of the Phase 3 study support an acceptable regulatory submission for marketing approval. There is no assurance, however, that the Phase 3 study will be successful, that a single Phase 3 trial will support marketing approval, or that we will be able to obtain marketing approval for NeuVax or any other product candidate. We currently generate no revenue from sales, and we may never be able to develop marketable products. Before they can be marketed, our products in development must be approved by the FDA or similar foreign governmental agencies. The process for obtaining FDA approval is both time-consuming and costly, with no certainty of a successful outcome. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the sale of any drug candidate, we must conduct extensive preclinical tests and clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy in humans of our product candidates. Although NeuVax has demonstrated safety during Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials, further testing in our Phase 3 trial may undermine those determinations or unexpected side effects may arise. A failure of any preclinical study or clinical trial can occur at any stage of testing. The results of preclinical and initial clinical testing of these products may not necessarily indicate the results that will be obtained from later or more extensive testing. It also is possible to suffer significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after obtaining promising results in earlier trials. A number of different factors could prevent us from obtaining regulatory approval or commercializing our product candidates on a timely basis, or at all. We, the FDA or other applicable regulatory authorities or an institutional review board, or “IRB,” which is an independent committee under the oversight of the United States Department of Health and Human Services, or “HHS,” that has been formally registered with HHS and functions to approve, monitor and review biomedical and behavioral research involving humans, may suspend clinical trials of a drug candidate at any time for various reasons, including if we or they believe the subjects or patients participating in such trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks. Among other reasons, adverse side effects of a drug candidate on subjects or patients 17 Table of Contents in a clinical trial could result in the FDA or other regulatory authorities suspending or terminating the trial and refusing to approve a particular drug candidate for any or all indications of use. Clinical trials of a new drug candidate require the enrollment of a sufficient number of patients, including patients who are suffering from the disease the drug candidate is intended to treat and who meet other eligibility criteria. Rates of patient enrollment are affected by many factors, and delays in patient enrollment can result in increased costs and longer development times. Clinical trials also require the review and oversight of IRBs, which approve and continually review clinical investigations and protect the rights and welfare of human subjects. An inability or delay in obtaining IRB approval could prevent or delay the initiation and completion of clinical trials, and the FDA may decide not to consider any data or information derived from a clinical investigation not subject to initial and continuing IRB review and approval. In addition, cancer vaccines are a relatively new form of therapeutic and a very limited number of such products have received regulatory approval. Therefore, the FDA or other regulatory authority may apply standards for approval of a new cancer vaccine that is different from past experience. Numerous factors could affect the timing, cost or outcome of our drug development efforts, including the following: • difficulties or delays in enrolling patients in our Phase 3 PRESENT study of NeuVax or our Phase 1/2 clinical trials of FBP in conformity with required protocols or projected timelines or in our other NeuVax clinical trials; • conditions imposed on us by the FDA, including the possibility that that the FDA would require an additional Phase 3 trial of NeuVax, or comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials; • difficulties or delays in arranging for third parties to conduct clinical trials of our product candidates; • problems in engaging IRBs to oversee trials or problems in obtaining or maintaining IRB approval of studies; • third-party contractors failing to comply with regulatory requirements or meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner; • our drug candidates having very different chemical and pharmacological properties in humans than in laboratory testing and interacting with human biological systems in unforeseen, ineffective or harmful ways, and the possibility that our previous Phase 2 trials were not indicative of our drug candidates’ performance in larger patient populations; • the need to suspend or terminate our clinical trials if the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; • insufficient or inadequate supply or quality of our drug candidates or other necessary materials necessary to conduct our clinical trials; • effects of our drug candidates not being the desired effects or including undesirable side effects or the drug candidates having other unexpected characteristics; • the cost of our clinical trials may be greater than we anticipate; • negative or inconclusive results from our clinical trials or the clinical trials of others for drug candidates similar to our own or inability to generate statistically significant data confirming the efficacy of the product being tested; • adverse results obtained by other companies developing similar drugs; • modification of the drug during testing; • changes in the FDA’s requirements for our testing during the course of that testing; and • reallocation of our limited financial and other resources to other clinical programs. 18 Table of Contents It is possible that none of the product candidates that we develop will obtain the appropriate regulatory approvals necessary for us to begin selling them or that any regulatory approval to market a product may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which we may market the product. The time required to obtain FDA and other approvals is unpredictable but often can take years following the commencement of clinical trials, depending upon the complexity of the drug candidate. Any analysis we perform of data from clinical activities is subject to confirmation and interpretation by regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Any delay or failure in obtaining required approvals could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue from the particular drug candidate. We are also subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing authorization, pricing and third-party reimbursement. The foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with the FDA approval described above as well as risks attributable to the satisfaction of local regulations in foreign jurisdictions. Approval by the FDA does not assure approval by regulatory authorities outside of the United States. We will rely upon third parties for the manufacture of our clinical product candidates. We do not have the facilities or expertise to manufacture supplies of any of our potential product candidates for clinical trials. Accordingly, we will be dependent upon contract manufacturers for these supplies. There can be no assurance that we will be able to secure needed supply arrangements on attractive terms, or at all. Our failure to secure these arrangements as needed could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to complete the development of our product candidates or, if we obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, to commercialize them. Our current plans call for the manufacture of our compounds by contract manufacturers offering research grade, Good Laboratory grade and Good Manufacturing Practices grade materials for preclinical studies (e.g., toxicology studies) and for clinical use. Certain of our product candidates are complex molecules requiring many synthesis steps, which may lead to challenges with purification and scale-up. These challenges could result in increased costs and delays in manufacturing. NeuVax is administered in combination with GM-CSF, a compound produced by Genzyme. If Genzyme were to discontinue supplying GM-CSF, we may experience delays in securing a replacement supplier. We may not be able to establish or maintain the third-party relationships that are necessary to develop or potentially commercialize some or all of our product candidates. We expect to depend on collaborators, partners, licensees, clinical research organizations and other third parties to support our discovery efforts, to formulate product candidates, to manufacture our product candidates, and to conduct clinical trials for some or all of our product candidates. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully negotiate agreements for or maintain relationships with collaborators, partners, licensees, clinical investigators, vendors and other third parties on favorable terms, if at all. Our ability to successfully negotiate such agreements will depend on, among other things, potential partners’ evaluation of the superiority of our technology over competing technologies and the quality of the preclinical and clinical data that we have generated, and the perceived risks specific to developing our product candidates. In addition, we reduced the scale of our RNAi operations in connection with the partial spin-off of RXi, which could affect our ability to maintain or enter into new alliances. If we are unable to obtain or maintain these agreements, we may not be able to clinically develop, formulate, manufacture, obtain regulatory approvals for or commercialize our product candidates. Under certain license agreements that we have already entered into, we have minimum dollar amounts per year that we are obligated to spend on the development of the technology we have licensed from our contract partners and other obligations to maintain certain licenses. If we fail to meet this requirement under any of our licenses that contain such requirements or any other obligations under these licenses, we may be in breach of our obligations under such agreement, which may result in the loss of the technology licensed. We cannot necessarily control the amount or timing of resources that our contract partners will devote to our research and development programs, product candidates or potential product candidates, and we cannot guarantee that these parties will fulfill their obligations to us under these arrangements in a timely fashion. We may not be able to readily terminate any such agreements with contract partners even if such contract partners do not fulfill their obligations to us. 19 Table of Contents In addition, we may receive notices from third parties from time to time alleging that our technology or product candidates infringe upon the intellectual property rights of those third parties. Any assertion by third parties that our activities or product candidates infringe upon their intellectual property rights may adversely affect our ability to secure strategic partners or licensees for our technology or product candidates or our ability to secure or maintain manufacturers for our compounds. Even if we obtain regulatory approvals, our marketed drugs will be subject to ongoing regulatory review. If we fail to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements, we could lose our approvals to market drugs and our business would be materially adversely affected. Following regulatory approval of any drugs we may develop, we will remain subject to continuing regulatory review, including the review of adverse drug experiences and clinical results that are reported after our drug products are made available to patients. This would include results from any post marketing tests or vigilance required as a condition of approval. The manufacturer and manufacturing facilities we use to make any of our drug products will also be subject to periodic review and inspection by the FDA. The discovery of any new or previously unknown problems with the product, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the drug or manufacturer or facility, including withdrawal of the drug from the market. We would continue to be subject to the FDA requirements governing the labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, recordkeeping, and submission of safety and other post-market information for all of our product candidates, even those that the FDA had approved. If we fail to comply with applicable continuing regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approval, product recalls and seizures, operating restrictions and other adverse consequences. Even if we receive regulatory approval to market our product candidates, our product candidates may not be accepted commercially, which may prevent us from becoming profitable. NeuVax and our other cancer-targeted product candidates may not achieve market acceptance. Factors that we believe will materially affect market acceptance of our product candidates include: • timing of our receipt of any marketing approvals, the terms of any approvals and the countries in which approvals are obtained; • safety, efficacy and ease of administration of our product candidates; • advantages of our product candidates over those of our competitors; • willingness of patients to accept relatively new therapies; • success of our physician education programs; • availability of government and third-party payor reimbursement; • pricing of our products, particularly as compared to alternative treatments; and • availability of effective alternative treatments and the relative risks and/or benefits of the treatments. We will be subject to competition and may not be able to compete successfully. The biotechnology industry, including the cancer therapy vaccines market, is intensely competitive and involves a high degree of risk. We compete with other companies that have far greater experience and financial, research and technical resources than us. Potential competitors in the United States and worldwide are numerous and include pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, educational institutions and research foundations, many of which have substantially greater capital resources, marketing experience, research and development staffs and facilities than us. Some of our competitors may develop and commercialize products that compete directly with those incorporating our technology, introduce products to market earlier than our products or on a more cost effective basis. We may be unable to effectively develop our technology or any other applications on a cost effective basis or otherwise. In addition, our technology may be subject to competition from other technology or methods developed using techniques other than those developed by traditional biotechnology methods. Our competitors compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel as 20 Table of Contents well as in acquiring technologies complementary to our technology. Our collaborators or we will face competition with respect to product efficacy and safety, ease of use and adaptability to various modes of administration, acceptance by physicians, the timing and scope of regulatory approvals, availability of resources, reimbursement coverage, price and patent position, including potentially dominant patent positions of others. An inability to successfully complete our product development could lead to us having limited prospects for establishing market share or generating revenues from our technology. For patients with early stage breast cancer, adjuvant therapy is often given to prevent recurrence and increase the chance of long-term disease free survival. Adjuvant therapy for breast cancer can include chemotherapy, hormonal therapy, radiation therapy, or combinations thereof. In addition, the HER2 targeted drug trastuzumab (Herceptin®) may be given to patients with tumors with high expression of HER2 (IHC 3+). There are a number of cancer vaccines in development for breast cancer, including but not limited to Lapuleucel-T (Dendreon), AE-37 (Antigen Express) and Stimuvax (Merck KgA). While these development candidates are aimed at a number of different targets, there is no guarantee that any of the these compounds will not in the future be indicated for treatment of low to intermediate HER2 breast cancer patients and become directly competitive with NeuVax. We are dependent on technologies we license, and if we lose the right to license such technologies or we fail to license new technologies in the future, our ability to develop new products would be harmed. We currently are dependent on licenses from third parties for technologies relating to our product candidates. Our current licenses impose, and any future licenses we enter into are likely to impose, various development, funding, royalty, diligence, sublicensing, insurance and other obligations on us. If our license with respect to any of these technologies is terminated for any reason, the development of the products contemplated by the licenses would be delayed, or suspended altogether, while we seek to license similar technology or develop new non-infringing technology. The costs of obtaining new licenses are high. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights licensed from others parties, our intellectual property rights may be inadequate to prevent third parties from using our technologies or developing competing products, and we may need to license additional intellectual property from others. In addition to our licenses, we also rely on copyright and trademark protection, trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovation and licensing opportunities. In an effort to maintain the confidentiality and ownership of our trade secrets and proprietary information, we require our employees, consultants, advisors and others to whom we disclose confidential information to execute confidentiality and proprietary information agreements. However, it is possible that these agreements may be breached, invalidated or rendered unenforceable, and if so, there may not be an adequate corrective remedy available. Furthermore, like many companies in our industry, we may from time to time hire scientific personnel formerly employed by other companies involved in one or more areas similar to the activities we conduct. In some situations, our confidentiality and proprietary information agreements may conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom our employees, consultants or advisors have prior employment or consulting relationships. Although we require our employees and consultants to maintain the confidentiality of all confidential information of previous employers, we may be subject to allegations of trade secret misappropriation or other similar claims as a result of our employees’ or consultants’ prior affiliations. Finally, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques, or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Our failure to protect our proprietary information and techniques may inhibit or limit our ability to exclude certain competitors from the market and execute our business strategies. Our success depends upon our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property protection for our products and technologies. Our success will depend on our ability to obtain and maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property covering our product candidates and technologies. The ultimate degree of patent protection that will be afforded to biotechnology products and processes, including ours, in the United States and in other important markets remains uncertain and is dependent upon the scope of protection decided upon by the patent offices, 21 Table of Contents courts and lawmakers in these countries. There is no certainty that our existing patents, or patent applications if obtained, will afford us substantial protection or commercial benefit. Similarly, there is no assurance that our pending patent applications or patent applications licensed from third parties will ultimately be granted as patents or that those patents that have been issued or are issued in the future will stand if they are challenged in court. There is a risk that the products incorporating our peptide-based immunotherapy technology or otherwise marketed by us might infringe the patent, trademark or other intellectual property rights of third parties, and there may be patent or other intellectual property rights belonging to others that require us to alter our products, pay licensing fees or cease certain activities. For example, in June 2010, we received a letter from Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Inc. claiming that we require access to Alnylam’s patent and patent applications and demanding that we stop engaging in unspecified alleged infringing activities unless we obtain a license from Alnylam. If our products infringe patent or other intellectual property rights of others, the owners of those rights could bring legal actions against us claiming damages and seeking to enjoin manufacture, use, marketing and sales of the affected products. If these legal actions are successful, in addition to any potential liability for damages, we could be required to obtain a license in order to continue to manufacture or market the affected products. We may not prevail in any action brought against us, and any license required under any rights that we infringe may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. Others may attempt to invalidate our intellectual property rights or those of our licensors. Even if our rights, or those of our licensors, are not directly challenged, disputes among third parties could lead to the weakening or invalidation of our intellectual property rights. Any attempt by third parties to undermine or invalidate our intellectual property rights could be costly to defend, require significant time and attention of our management and have a material adverse effect on our business. If we are unable to obtain regulatory exclusivity for NeuVax, our business would be adversely affected and such exclusivity may not provide sufficient protection to prevent competitors from entering our markets. Because our intellectual property rights to the composition of matter of NeuVax expire prior to commercialization, we expect to rely substantially on data exclusivity provided under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and similar laws in other countries and, to a lesser extent, on orphan drug designation, if granted for NeuVax. We are preparing to apply for Orphan Drug status for NeuVax that, if granted, could provide seven years or ten years of market exclusivity in the United States or the European Union, respectively. However, there is no assurance that the FDA or the European Medicines Agency, or “EMEA,” will approve our Orphan Drug Application. We also anticipate that NeuVax will qualify for 12 years of data exclusivity, and thus other companies would be prevented from using our clinical data to support their application for regulatory approval, under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act; however, there can be no assurance that the 12 years of exclusivity provided for under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act will remain in effect, or that NeuVax will meet the qualifications of a “biological product” to receive the specified period of exclusivity. While the orphan drug designation for NeuVax, if granted, will provide seven years of market exclusivity in the United States, we will not be able to exclude other companies from receiving market approval for the designated orphan indication beyond that timeframe. Even if we have orphan drug designation for a particular drug indication, we cannot guarantee that another company also holding orphan drug designation will not receive FDA approval for the same indication before we do. If that were to happen, our applications for that indication may not be approved until the competing company’s seven-year period of exclusivity expired. Even if we are the first to obtain FDA approval for an orphan drug indication, there are circumstances under which a competing product may be approved for the same indication during our seven-year period of marketing exclusivity, such as if the later product is shown to be clinically superior to the orphan product. Further, the seven-year marketing exclusivity would not prevent competitors from obtaining approval of the same compound for other indications or the use of other types of drugs for the same use as the orphan drug. In addition, data exclusivity does not prevent another company from completing its own clinical trials with NeuVax and obtaining regulatory approval for the same indication for which NeuVax may be approved. Consequently, we may not be able to prevent competitors from entering the market prior to the end of any applicable data exclusivity period. If we are not able to prevent competitors from entering the market with a similar product to NeuVax, our ability to achieve profits from sales of NeuVax will be dramatically limited. 22 Table of Contents We are subject to potential liabilities from clinical testing and future product liability claims. If any of our future products are alleged to be defective, they may expose us to claims for personal injury by patients in clinical trials of our products. If our products are approved by the FDA, users may claim that such products caused unintended adverse effects. We will seek to obtain clinical trial insurance for clinical trials that we conduct, as well as liability insurance for any products that we market. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain insurance in the amounts we seek, or at all. We anticipate that licensees who develop our products will carry liability insurance covering the clinical testing and marketing of those products. There is no assurance, however, that any insurance maintained by us or our licensees will prove adequate in the event of a claim against us. Even if claims asserted against us are unsuccessful, they may divert management’s attention from our operations and we may have to incur substantial costs to defend such claims. Any drugs we develop may become subject to unfavorable pricing regulations, third-party reimbursement practices or healthcare reform initiatives, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We intend to sell our products primarily to hospitals, oncologists and clinics which receive reimbursement for the health care services they provide to their patients from third-party payors, such as Medicare, Medicaid and other domestic and international government programs, private insurance plans and managed care programs. Most third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a medical product was not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods, as determined by the third-party payor, was used for an unapproved indication or if they believe the cost of the product outweighs its benefits. Third-party payors also may refuse to reimburse for experimental procedures and devices. Furthermore, because our programs are still in development, we are unable at this time to determine their cost-effectiveness and the level or method of reimbursement for them. Increasingly, the third-party payors who reimburse patients are requiring that drug companies provide them with predetermined discounts from list prices, and are challenging the prices charged for medical products. If the price we are able to charge for any products we develop is inadequate in light of our development and other costs, our profitability could be adversely affected. We currently expect that any drugs we develop may need to be administered under the supervision of a physician. Under currently applicable law, drugs that are not usually self-administered may be eligible for coverage by the Medicare program if: • they are “incidental” to a physician’s services; • they are “reasonable and necessary” for the diagnosis or treatment of the illness or injury for which they are administered according to accepted standard of medical practice; • they are not excluded as immunizations; and • they have been approved by the FDA. Insurers may refuse to provide insurance coverage for newly approved drugs, or insurance coverage may be delayed or be more limited than the purpose for which the drugs are approved by the FDA. Moreover, eligibility for insurance coverage does not imply that any drug will be reimbursed in all cases or at a rate that covers our costs, including research, development, manufacture, sale and distribution. Interim payments for new drugs, if applicable, may also not be sufficient to cover our costs and may not be made permanent. Reimbursement may be based on payments for other services and may reflect budgetary constraints or imperfections in Medicare data. Net prices for drugs may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government health care programs or private payors and by any future relaxation of laws that presently restrict imports of drugs from countries where they may be sold at lower prices than in the United States. Third-party payors often rely upon Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates. Our inability to promptly obtain coverage and profitable reimbursement rates from both government-funded and private payors for new drugs that we develop could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, our ability to raise capital needed to develop products, and our overall financial condition. Additionally, third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for medical products and services. Levels of reimbursement may decrease in the future, and future legislation, regulation or reimbursement policies of third-party payors may 23 Table of Contents adversely affect the demand for and price levels of our products. If our customers are not reimbursed for our products, they may reduce or discontinue purchases of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Comprehensive health care reform legislation, which was recently adopted by Congress and was subsequently signed into law, could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Among other provisions, the legislation provides that a “biosimilar” product may be approved by the FDA on the basis of analytical tests and certain clinical studies demonstrating that such product is highly similar to an existing, approved product and that switching between an existing product and the biosimilar product will not result in diminished safety or efficacy. This abbreviated regulatory approval process may result in increased competition if we are able to bring a product to market. The legislation also includes more stringent compliance programs for companies in various sectors of the life sciences industry with which we may need to comply and enhanced penalties for non-compliance with the new health care regulations. Complying with new regulations may divert management resources, and inadvertent failure to comply with new regulations may result in penalties being imposed on us. Some states and localities have established drug importation programs for their citizens, and federal drug import legislation has been introduced in Congress. The Medicare Prescription Drug Plan legislation, which became law in December 2003, required the Secretary of Health and Human Services to promulgate regulations for drug reimportation from Canada into the United States under some circumstances, including when the drugs are sold at a lower price than in the United States. The Secretary, however, retained the discretion not to implement a drug reimportation plan if he finds that the benefits do not outweigh the costs, and has so far declined to approve a reimportation plan. Proponents of drug reimportation may attempt to pass legislation that would directly allow reimportation under certain circumstances. Legislation or regulations allowing the reimportation of drugs, if enacted, could decrease the price we receive for any products that we may develop and adversely affect our future revenues and prospects for profitability. If our new management team is not effective or if we fail to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel, we may not be able to design, develop, market or sell our products or successfully manage our business. Our business prospects are dependent on our management team. The loss of Dr. Ahn, our President and Chief Executive Officer, or our other executive officers, or our inability to identify, attract, retain and integrate additional qualified key personnel, could make it difficult for us to manage our business successfully and achieve our business objectives. Competition for skilled research, product development, regulatory and technical personnel also is intense, and we may not be able to recruit and retain the personnel we need. The loss of the services of any key research, product development, regulatory, and technical personnel, or our inability to hire new personnel with the requisite skills, could restrict our ability to develop our product candidates. We use biological and hazardous materials, and we may be liable for any contamination or injury we cause. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of potentially harmful biological materials as well as hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury; we may be liable for any damages that result, and any liability could exceed our resources. We are also subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. We maintain workers’ compensation insurance to cover us for costs and expenses we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of these materials. State laws mandate the limits of our workers’ compensation insurance, and our workers’ compensation liability is capped at these state-mandated limits. We do not maintain insurance for environmental liability or toxic tort claims that may be asserted against us in connection with our storage or disposal of biological, hazardous or radioactive materials. Additional federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting our operations may be adopted in the future. We may incur substantial costs to comply with, and substantial fines or penalties if we violate any of these laws or regulations. 24 Table of Contents Risks Relating To Our Financial Position and Capital Requirements We may not be able to obtain sufficient financing, and may not be able to develop our product candidates. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents and the proceeds from our sales agreement with Cantor should be sufficient to fund our operations through at least the first quarter of 2013. In the future, we will be dependent on obtaining further financing from third parties in order to maintain our operations and to meet our financial obligations. We cannot assure that additional funding to maintain our operations and to meet our obligations to our licensors will be available to us in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. If we fail to obtain additional funding when needed, we would be forced to scale back, or terminate, our operations, or to seek to merge with or to be acquired by another company. We anticipate that we will need to raise substantial amounts of money to fund a variety of future activities integral to the development of our business, which may include but are not limited to the following: • to conduct our Phase 3 PRESENT clinical trial of NeuVax , our Phase 1/2 clinical trials of FBP and our planned Phase 2 trial of NeuVax in combination with Herceptin® and our other planned NeuVax trials; • to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates; • to file and prosecute patent applications and to defend and assess patents to protect our technologies; • to retain qualified employees, particularly in light of intense competition for qualified scientists; • to manufacture products ourselves or through third parties; • to market our products, either through building our own sales and distribution capabilities or relying on third parties; and • to acquire new technologies, licenses, products or companies. We cannot assure you that any financing needed for the development of our business will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we cannot obtain additional financing in the future, our operations may be restricted and we may ultimately be unable to continue to develop and potentially commercialize our product candidates. We expect to continue to incur significant research and development expenses, which may make it difficult for us to attain profitability, and may lead to uncertainty about or as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Substantial funds were expended to develop our technologies and product candidates, and additional substantial funds will be required for further preclinical testing and clinical trials of our product candidates, and to manufacture and market any products that are approved for commercial sale. Because the successful development of our products is uncertain, we are unable to precisely estimate the actual funds we will require to develop and potentially commercialize them. In addition, we may not be able to generate enough revenue, even if we are able to commercialize any of our product candidates, to become profitable. In the event that we are unable to achieve or sustain profitability or to secure additional financing, we may not be able to meet our obligations as they come due, raising substantial doubts as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Any such inability to continue as a going concern may result in our common stock holders losing their entire investment. There is no guaranty that we will become profitable or secure additional financing. Our financial statements contemplate that we will continue as a going concern and do not contain any adjustments that might result if we were unable to continue as a going concern. Changes in our operating plans, our existing and anticipated working capital needs, the acceleration or modification of our expansion plans, increased expenses, potential acquisitions or other events will all affect our ability to continue as a going concern. Future financing may be obtained through, and future development efforts may be paid for by, the issuance of debt or equity, which may have an adverse effect on our stockholders or may otherwise adversely affect our business. If we raise funds through the issuance of debt or equity, any debt securities or preferred stock issued will have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock in the event of a liqui- 25 Table of Contents dation. In such event, there is a possibility that once all senior claims are settled, there may be no assets remaining to pay out to the holders of common stock. In addition, if we raise funds through the issuance of additional equity, whether through private placements or additional public offerings, such an issuance would dilute your ownership in us. The terms of debt securities may also impose restrictions on our operations, which may include limiting our ability to incur additional indebtedness, to pay dividends on or repurchase our capital stock, or to make certain acquisitions or investments. In addition, we may be subject to covenants requiring us to satisfy certain financial tests and ratios, and our ability to satisfy such covenants may be affected by events outside of our control. You may have difficulty evaluating our business, because we have a limited history and our historical financial information may not be representative of our future results. We have limited operating experience and may not be able to effectively operate. We are a development-stage company with limited operating history conducting oncology drug programs. We will focus on developing and, if we obtain regulatory approval, commercializing our product candidates, and there is no assurance that we will be successful. There is no assurance that we will be able to manage our business effectively, or that we will be able to identify, hire and retain any needed additional management or scientific personnel to develop and implement our product development plans, obtain third-party contracts or any needed financing or achieve our other business objectives. We may be unable to comply with our reporting and other requirements under federal securities laws. As a publicly traded company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the “Exchange Act,” and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act.” In addition, the Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports. Our failure to prepare and disclose this information in a timely manner could subject us to penalties under federal securities laws, expose us to lawsuits and restrict our ability to access financing. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we, among other things, establish and maintain effective internal controls and procedures for financial reporting. From time to time we evaluate our existing internal controls in light of the standards adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. It is possible that we or our independent registered public accounting firm may identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. Any failure or difficulties in implementing and maintaining these controls could cause us to fail to meet the periodic reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our failure to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 on a timely basis could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business and our common stock. We recently reported a material weakness in the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, and if we cannot provide reliable financial and other information, investors may lose confidence in our SEC reports. In October 2011, our management identified a material weakness in the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting related to our accounting for certain outstanding stock options and warrants. As a result, we restated our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements as of June 30, 2011. Based on this evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures, and because of the error described above, our management concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures over our accounting for stock options modified and for warrants potentially settleable in cash were not effective as of the end of the quarters ended June 30, and September 30, 2011. Disclosure controls and procedures generally include controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports we file with the SEC is recorded, processed, summarized and reported accurately and within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. In the fourth quarter of 2011, we implemented additional review procedures to ensure the accuracy of our fair market value calculations to ensure that our accounting for stock options modified and for 26 Table of Contents warrants potentially settleable in cash is in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. This action was in place in connection with the preparation of our financial statements for the year ended 2011. As such, we believe that the remediation initiative was sufficient to eliminate the material weakness in internal control over financial reporting as discussed above. Effective internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are necessary for us to provide reliable financial and other reports and effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial or SEC reports or prevent fraud, investors may lose confidence in our SEC reports, our operating results and the trading price of our common stock could suffer materially and we may become subject to litigation. We have been sued by some of our warrant holders, and we could be found liable to repurchase their warrants. On November 21, 2011, Hudson Bay Master Fund, Ltd. (“Hudson Bay”) filed a Complaint against us in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York (the “Court”), captioned Hudson Bay Master Fund, Ltd. v. Galena Biopharma, Inc., 11 Civ. 8432 (JPO), alleging that our plan to partially spin off RXi and related actions taken by us in preparation for the spin-off gives Hudson Bay the right to require us to repurchase the warrants acquired by Hudson Bay in our April 2011 underwritten public offering. Hudson Bay also seeks related declaratory and injunctive relief. On January 12, 2012, three other warrant holders affiliated with each other filed a Complaint in the Court, captioned Tenor Opportunity Fund, Ltd., Aria Opportunity Fund, Ltd., and Parsoon Opportunity Fund, Ltd. v. Galena Biopharma, Inc., 12 CIV 0260, and on January 20, 2012 and February 2, 2012, respectively, two other warrant holders filed their own Complaints in the Court, captioned Cranshire Capital Master Fund, Ltd. v. Galena Biopharma, Inc., 12 CIV 0493 and Iroquois Master Fund, Ltd. v. Galena Biopharma, Inc., 12 CIV 0839, respectively. In these Complaints, which are substantially identical to the previous Complaints filed in the Court, the various warrant holders also claim that our planned spin-off of RXi and related actions give them the right to require us to repurchase our outstanding warrants held by them. According to the allegations in the Complaints, the repurchase price of the plaintiffs’ warrants would amount to approximately $5.2 million in the aggregate. On March 21, 2012, we received letters from each of the plaintiff-warrant holders withdrawing their repurchase demands with respect to their warrants covering an aggregate of 6,350,000 shares out of a total of 6,850,000 shares of common stock purchasable under their warrants (the “Withdrawal Notices”). After giving effect to the Withdrawal Notices, the plaintiff-warrant holders continued to demand that we repurchase their warrants covering the balance of 500,000 shares of common stock in the aggregate. Based on the plaintiff-warrant holders’ claims in their Complaints, we believe that the repurchase price for these warrants is $0.71 per underlying share, or an aggregate of $355,000. On March 27, 2012, we tendered to the plaintiff-warrant holders an aggregate of $355,000 as payment in full of the repurchase price for those warrants. We believe that the Withdrawal Notices and our tender of payment as described above render moot the majority of the claims of the plaintiff-warrant holders in their Complaints, although the Withdrawal Notices purport to reserve all rights of the plaintiff-warrant holders under the Complaints. If we were to become liable to repurchase the plaintiffs’ warrants, we may not have on hand sufficient funds to satisfy the liability and to meet our other obligations as they come due, which could raise doubts as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock has exhibited substantial volatility recently. Between January 1, 2012 and March 27, 2012, the sale price of our common stock as reported on The NASDAQ Capital Market ranged from a low of $0.43 to a high of $2.93. The market price of our common stock could continue to fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including the following factors: • reports of the results of our clinical trials regarding the safety or efficacy of our product candidates and surrogate markers; 27 Table of Contents • announcements of regulatory developments or technological innovations by us or our competitors; • announcements of business or strategic transactions such as our planned partial spin-off of RXi and related transactions and of the progress of the partial spin-off or other strategic transactions; • changes in our relationship with our licensors and other strategic partners; • our quarterly operating results; • developments in patent or other technology ownership rights; • public concern regarding the safety of our products; • additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us and, in the case of equity financings, may result in dilution to our stock holders; • government regulation of drug pricing; and • general changes in the economy, the financial markets or the pharmaceutical or biotechnology industries. In addition, factors beyond our control may also have an impact on the price of our stock. For example, to the extent that other large companies within our industry experience declines in their stock price, our stock price may decline as well. In addition, when the market price of a company’s common stock drops significantly, stockholders often institute securities class action lawsuits against the company. A lawsuit against us could cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of our management and other resources. Anti-takeover provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and provisions of Delaware law could delay or prevent a change of control that you may favor. Anti-takeover provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and provisions of Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or other change of control that stockholders may consider favorable, or may impede the ability of the holders of our common stock to change our management. These provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, among other things: • divide our board of directors into three classes, with members of each class to be elected for staggered three-year terms; • limit the right of stockholders to remove directors; • regulate how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at annual meetings of stockholders; and • authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock in one or more series, without stockholder approval. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law provides that, subject to limited exceptions, persons that acquire, or are affiliated with a person that acquires, more than 15% of the outstanding voting stock of a Delaware corporation such as our company shall not engage in any business combination with that corporation, including by merger, consolidation or acquisitions of additional shares for a three-year period following the date on which that person or its affiliate crosses the 15% stock ownership threshold. Section 203 could operate to delay or prevent a change of control of our company. We may acquire other businesses, including businesses in which our directors or officers may have an interest, or form joint ventures that may be unsuccessful and could adversely dilute your ownership of our company. As part of our business strategy, we may pursue acquisitions of other complementary businesses and assets and may also pursue strategic alliances. We have limited experience in acquiring other companies and in forming such alliances. Apthera was our first acquisition. Sanford J. Hillsberg, our Chairman of the Board, was a substantial stockholder of Apthera at the time of the acquisition and had interests in the Apthera acquisition that were different from the interests of our stockholders, generally. We may not be able to successfully integrate any acquisitions into our existing business, and we could assume unknown or contingent liabilities or become subject 28 Table of Contents to possible stockholder claims in connection with any related-party or third-party acquisitions or other transactions. We also could experience adverse effects on our reported results of operations from acquisition-related charges, amortization of acquired technology and other intangibles and impairment charges relating to write-offs of goodwill and other intangible assets from time to time following the acquisition of Apthera or other acquisitions. Integration of an acquired company requires management resources that otherwise would be available for ongoing development of our existing business. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, technology license or strategic alliance. To finance future acquisitions, we may choose to issue shares of our common stock as consideration, which would dilute your ownership interest in us. Alternatively, it may be necessary for us to raise additional funds through public or private financings. Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us and, in the case of equity financings, may result in dilution to our stockholders. Risks Relating to the Partial Spin-Off of RXi There are a number of risks associated with the partial spin-off of RXi, including the following: The partial spin-off may be delayed or may not be completed. On February 27, 2012 we announced, as required by NASDAQ Listing Rule 5250(e)(6), that our board of directors had declared a conditional dividend on Galena common stock of one share of common stock of RXi for each outstanding share of Galena common stock. The spin-off shares will be payable, subject to certain conditions described below, to our stockholders as of close of business (Eastern time) on March 8, 2012, the record date for the distribution, in the ratio of one RXi share for each share of Galena common stock held as of the record date. In light of the conditional nature of the partial spin-off of RXi, our board of directors has not set a payment date for the distribution, and under NASDAQ rules our common stock is not yet trading “ex-dividend.” The distribution of the spin-off shares will be taxable to Galena stockholders who receive RXi shares in the distribution. The distribution to Galena stockholders of the spin-off shares is to be made pursuant to the registration statement filed by RXi with the Securities and Exchange Commission and declared effective on February 14, 2012. Because the RXi registration statement will go “stale” on April 30, 2012, we must complete the distribution of the spin-off shares by that date, unless we were to cause RXi to amend the registration statement. It is likely that we would abandon the partial spin-off of RXi if the distribution of the spin-off shares has not been made by April 30, 2012, although our board of directors has not made any decision in this regard. The establishment of a payment date for the distribution and the payment of the distribution is dependent upon the timing of effectiveness of an application filed with FINRA to permit RXi common stock to be traded in the OTC Markets Group under the symbol “RXII.” The payment of the distribution also is conditioned upon the closing of the RXi financing, which is subject to certain closing conditions that may or may not be satisfied. In addition, the securities purchase agreement among Galena, RXi and the RXi investors provides that the agreement may be unilaterally terminated by us or by the RXi investors if the closing of the transactions has not occurred by March 31, 2012, and it is not possible for the closing to occur by this date. Accordingly, unless this date is extended by mutual agreement of the RXi investors and us, either we or the RXi investors generally may terminate the securities purchase agreement at any time after March 31, 2012, unless the failure of the closing to occur was due to the fault of the party seeking to terminate the securities purchase agreement. Although we have no present intention to terminate the securities purchase agreement or to abandon the partial spin-off of RXi, the RXi investors may choose to do so. We also may decide to do so at any time if our board of directors determines that it is in the best interests of our company. For all of the foregoing reasons, there is no assurance that the payment and distribution of the spin-off shares will be completed. We will no longer control RXi. We currently own all of the outstanding shares of common stock of RXi. Upon completion of the RXi financing and the partial spin-off of RXi, assuming they are completed, we will own only approximately 4% of the as-converted common stock of RXi and our stockholders will own in the aggregate approximately 8% of the as-converted common stock. 29 Table of Contents We will have no management rights in RXi, and the officers, directors and other RXi stockholders may have interests that are different from ours. Although we will own approximately 4% of RXi’s outstanding common stock upon completion of the spin-off of RXi, we will have no control over its management or operations. RXi will have its own board of directors and management, who will be responsible for the affairs and policies of RXi and its development plans. Mark J. Ahn, Ph.D., our President and Chief Executive Officer, will resign as a director of RXi in conjunction with the partial spin-off of RXi, and neither we nor our stockholders will have any right to designate or elect Dr. Ahn or other individual as a director of RXi or any other management rights in RXi. The directors, management and other stockholders of RXi may have interests that are different from ours, and RXi may engage in actions in connection with its business and operations that we believe are not in our best interests. We have agreed to guarantee the bridge loan to RXi upon the imminent maturity date of the RXi convertible notes, and there is no assurance that the maturity date will be extended; and if the spin-off of RXi is not completed, we will lose control of RXi. Pursuant to the securities purchase agreement with the RXi, investors, the RXi investors have provided a bridge loan to RXi by purchasing $1,000,000 of RXi convertible notes and have agreed, in the RXi investors’ discretion, to purchase up to an additional $500,000 of RXi convertible notes prior to the closing. The RXi convertible notes accrue interest at a rate of 7% per annum (or 18% per annum in the case of an event of default) and mature on March 31, 2012, or earlier in the case of an event of default. The obligations due under the RXi convertible notes are secured by a first-priority blanket lien on the assets of RXi and are guaranteed by us. Additionally, we have pledged all of our shares of RXi common stock to further guarantee the timely payment of the amounts due under the RXi convertible notes, if not converted into RXi preferred stock at the closing of the transactions under the securities purchase agreement. If the closing of the transactions under the securities purchase agreement has not occurred by the March 31, 2012 maturity date of the RXi convertible notes, unless such date is extended by mutual agreement by the RXi investors and us, the permanent financing and the partial spin-off of RXi will not occur, and one-half of the outstanding principal of and accrued interest on the RXi convertible notes held by the investors will be converted into shares of RXi common stock equal to 51% of the shares of outstanding common stock of RXi immediately upon such conversion. RXi will be obliged to repay the balance of the principal of and accrued interest on the RXi convertible notes held by the investors, and we have agreed in the securities purchase agreement to guarantee RXi’s repayment of the RXi convertible notes to the extent they are not converted. In this event, we will own 44% of the outstanding shares of RXi common stock, and RXi will carry on as a stand-alone private company under the investors’ control, with its own management and with whatever funding and other financial resources that may be available to it. Neither the investors in RXi nor Galena will be obliged to provide any funding to RXi in this event, and there is no guarantee that funding will be available to RXi on acceptable terms, or at all. If RXi fails to obtain additional funding in this event, it would be forced to scale back or terminate its operations, or to seek to merge with or to be acquired by another company. Although we will own approximately 4% of RXi’s outstanding common stock upon completion of the spin-off of RXi, we will have no control over its management or operations. RXi will have its own board of directors and management, who will be responsible for the affairs and policies of RXi and its development plans. Mark J. Ahn, Ph.D., our President and Chief Executive Officer, will resign as a director of RXi in conjunction with the partial spin-off of RXi, and neither we nor our stockholders will have any right to designate or elect Dr. Ahn or other individual as a director of RXi or any other management rights in RXi. The directors, management and other stockholders of RXi may have interests that are different from ours, and RXi may engage in actions in connection with its business and operations that we believe are not in our best interests. We are in discussions with the RXi investors to extend the current March 31, 2012 maturity date of the RXi convertible notes, but there is no assurance that the maturity date will be extended. We retain little discretion over the use of RXi’s funds. We have agreed in the securities purchase agreement to use the proceeds of the RXi convertible notes and the funds contributed to RXi by us in accordance with budgets agreed or to be agreed upon by the investors and us. We retain no discretion over the use of these funds, and these funds will not be available to us for use in Galena’s oncology business or operations. 30 Table of Contents Risks Associated With Our Ownership Interest in RXi. If the partial spin-off is completed, or if it is not completed and we become a minority stockholder of RXi, the value of our ownership interest in RXi and of the spin-off shares to be received by our stockholders will depend on RXi’s success in developing and commercializing products developed based upon its RNAi technologies, which activities are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. RXi will be dependent on the success of its leading drug candidate, which may not receive regulatory approval or be successfully commercialized. RXI-109, RXi’s first RNAi-based product candidate, targets connective tissue growth factor, or “CTGF,” and may have a variety of medical applications. RXi is planning to file an IND application with the FDA and begin a Phase 1 clinical trial in 2012 for RXI-109. The FDA, however, may deny RXi’s application or require additional information before approving the application, and such information may be costly to provide. There is no assurance that RXi will be able to successfully develop RXI-109 or any other product candidate. RXi currently generates no revenue from sales, and may never be able to develop marketable products. The FDA or similar foreign governmental agencies must approve RXi’s products in development before they can be marketed. The process for obtaining FDA approval is both time-consuming and costly, with no certainty of a successful outcome. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the sale of any drug candidate, RXi must conduct extensive preclinical tests and clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy in humans of our product candidates. RXi has not shown safety or efficacy in humans for any RNAi-based product candidates, including RXI-109. A failure of any preclinical study or clinical trial can occur at any stage of testing. The results of preclinical and initial clinical testing of these products may not necessarily indicate the results that will be obtained from later or more extensive testing. It is also possible to suffer significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after obtaining promising results in earlier trials. A number of different factors could prevent RXi from obtaining regulatory approval or commercializing its product candidates on a timely basis, or at all. RXi, the FDA or other applicable regulatory authorities, or an IRB may suspend clinical trials of a drug candidate at any time for various reasons, including if RXi or they believe the subjects or patients participating in such trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks. Among other reasons, adverse side effects of a drug candidate on subjects or patients in a clinical trial could result in the FDA or other regulatory authorities suspending or terminating the trial and refusing to approve a particular drug candidate for any or all indications of use. Clinical trials of a new drug candidate require the enrollment of a sufficient number of patients, including patients who are suffering from the disease the drug candidate is intended to treat and who meet other eligibility criteria. Rates of patient enrollment are affected by many factors, and delays in patient enrollment can result in increased costs and longer development times. Clinical trials also require the review and oversight of IRBs, which approve and continually review clinical investigations and protect the rights and welfare of human subjects. An inability or delay in obtaining IRB approval could prevent or delay the initiation and completion of clinical trials, and the FDA may decide not to consider any data or information derived from a clinical investigation not subject to initial and continuing IRB review and approval. Numerous factors could affect the timing, cost or outcome of RXi’s drug development efforts, including the following: • delays in filing the initial IND drug application for RXI-109 or other product candidates; • difficulty in securing centers to conduct trials; • conditions imposed on us by the FDA or comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope or design of RXi’s clinical trials; 31 Table of Contents • problems in engaging IRBs to oversee trials or problems in obtaining or maintaining IRB approval of studies; • difficulty in enrolling patients in conformity with required protocols or projected timelines; • third-party contractors failing to comply with regulatory requirements or to meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner; • RXi’s drug candidates having very different chemical and pharmacological properties in humans than in laboratory testing and interacting with human biological systems in unforeseen, ineffective or harmful ways; • the need to suspend or terminate clinical trials if the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; • insufficient or inadequate supply or quality of RXi’s drug candidates or other necessary materials necessary to conduct our clinical trials; • effects of our drug candidates not being the desired effects or including undesirable side effects or the drug candidates having other unexpected characteristics; • the cost of RXi’s clinical trials may be greater than it anticipates; • negative or inconclusive results from RXi’s clinical trials or the clinical trials of others for similar drug candidates or inability to generate statistically significant data confirming the efficacy of the product being tested; • changes in the FDA’s requirements for testing during the course of that testing; • reallocation of RXi’s limited financial and other resources to other clinical programs; and • adverse results obtained by other companies developing similar drugs. It is possible that none of the product candidates that RXi may develop will obtain the appropriate regulatory approvals necessary to begin selling them or that any regulatory approval to market a product may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which RXi may market the product. The time required to obtain FDA and other approvals is unpredictable, but often can take years following the commencement of clinical trials, depending upon the complexity of the drug candidate. Any analysis RXi performs of data from clinical activities is subject to confirmation and interpretation by regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Any delay or failure in obtaining required approvals could have a material adverse effect on RXi’s ability to generate revenue from the particular drug candidate. RXi also is subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing authorization, pricing and third-party reimbursement. The foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with the FDA approval described above as well as risks attributable to the satisfaction of local regulations in foreign jurisdictions. Approval by the FDA does not assure approval by regulatory authorities outside of the United States. The approach RXi is taking to discover and develop novel therapeutics using RNAi is unproven and may never lead to marketable products. RNA interference is a relatively new scientific discovery. To date, no company has received regulatory approval to market therapeutics utilizing RNAi, and a number of clinical trials of RNAi technologies by other companies have been unsuccessful. The scientific evidence to support the feasibility of developing drugs based on these discoveries is both preliminary and limited. To successfully develop RNAi-based products, RXi must solve a number of issues, including stabilizing the RNAi material and delivering it into target cells in the human body. RXi may spend large amounts of money trying to solve these issues and never succeed in doing so. In addition, any compounds that RXi develops may not demonstrate in patients the chemical and pharmacological properties ascribed to them in laboratory studies, and they may interact with human biological systems in unforeseen, ineffective or even harmful ways. 32 Table of Contents The FDA could impose a unique regulatory regime for RNAi therapeutics. The substances RXi intends to develop may represent a new class of drug, and the FDA has not yet established any definitive policies, practices or guidelines in relation to these drugs. While we expect any product candidates that RXi develops will be regulated as a new drug under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the FDA could decide to regulate them or other products RXi may develop as biologics under the Public Health Service Act. The lack of policies, practices or guidelines may hinder or slow review by the FDA of any regulatory filings that RXi may submit. Moreover, the FDA may respond to these submissions by defining requirements that RXi may not have anticipated. The FDA approval process may be delayed for any drugs RXi develops that require the use of specialized drug delivery devices or vehicles. Some drug candidates that RXi develops may need to be administered using specialized devices, such as an implantable pump that deliver RNAi therapeutics directly to diseased parts of the body. These devices may or may not have been approved by the FDA or other regulatory agencies. The drug delivery vehicles that RXi may utilize to deliver its drug candidates have not been approved by the FDA or other regulatory agencies. In addition, the FDA may regulate the product as a combination product of a drug and a device or require additional approvals or clearances for the modified delivery. If specialized delivery vehicle is owned by another company, RXi would need that company’s cooperation to implement the necessary changes to the vehicle, or its labeling, and to obtain any additional approvals or clearances. Any delays in finding suitable drug delivery vehicles to administer RNAi therapeutics directly to diseased parts of the body could negatively affect our ability to successfully develop our RNAi therapeutics. Even if RXi receives regulatory approval to market its product candidates, its product candidates may not be accepted commercially, which may prevent RXi from becoming profitable. The RNAi product candidates that RXi is developing are based on new technologies and therapeutic approaches. RNAi products may be more expensive to manufacture than traditional small molecule drugs, which may make them more costly than competing small molecule drugs. Additionally, for various applications, RNAi products are likely to require injection or implantation, which will make them less convenient to administer than drugs administered orally. Key participants in the pharmaceutical marketplace, such as physicians, medical professionals working in large reference laboratories, public health laboratories and hospitals, third-party payors and consumers may not accept products intended to improve therapeutic results based on RNAi technology. As a result, it may be more difficult for RXi to convince the medical community and third-party payors to accept and use RXi’s products, or to provide favorable reimbursement. If medical professionals working with large reference laboratories, public health laboratories and hospitals choose not to adopt and use RXi’s RNAi technology, its products may not achieve broader market acceptance. Other factors that we believe will materially affect market acceptance of RNAi product candidates include: • timing of RXi’s receipt of any marketing approvals, the terms of any approvals and the countries in which approvals are obtained; • safety, efficacy and ease of administration of RXi’s product candidates; • advantages of RXi’s product candidates over those of RXi’s competitors; • willingness of patients to accept relatively new therapies; • success of RXi’s physician education programs; • availability of government and third party payor reimbursement; • pricing of RXi’s products, particularly as compared to alternative treatments; and • availability of effective alternative treatments and the relative risks and/or benefits of the treatments. 33 Table of Contents RXi will be subject to competition and may not be able to compete successfully. We believe numerous companies are investigating or plan to investigate a variety of proposed anti-scarring therapies in clinical trials. The companies include large and small pharmaceutical, chemical and biotechnology companies, as well as universities, government agencies and other private and public research organizations. Such companies include Renovo Group plc, CoDa Therapeutics, Inc., Sirnaomics, Inc., FirstString Research, Inc., Merz Pharmaceuticals, LLC, Capstone Therapeutics, Halscion, Inc., Garnet Bio Therapeutics, Inc., AkPharma Inc., Promedior, Inc., Kissei Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Eyegene, Derma Sciences, Inc., Healthpoint Biotherapeutics and Pharmaxon. In particular, Excaliard Pharmaceuticals, Inc., which has been acquired by Pfizer, Inc., has successfully advanced an anti-CTGF antisense oligonucleotide through several Phase 1 and Phase 2 trials, demonstrating improved scar outcome over placebo. We believe other companies working in the RNAi area, generally, include Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Marina Biotech, Inc., Tacere Therapeutics, Inc., Benitec Limited, OPKO Health, Inc., Silence Therapeutics plc, Quark Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Rosetta Genomics Ltd., Lorus Therapeutics, Inc., Tekmira Pharmaceuticals Corporation, Arrowhead Research Corporation, Regulus Therapeutics Inc. and Santaris, as well as a number of large pharmaceutical companies. Many other companies are pursuing non-RNAi-based therapies for one or more fibrotic disease indications, including ocular scarring or other indications that RXi may seek to pursue. Most of RXi’s competitors have substantially greater research and development capabilities and financial, scientific, technical, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and other resources than RXi, and RXi may not be able to successfully compete with them. In addition, even if RXi is successful in developing its product candidates, in order to compete successfully RXi may need to be first to market or to demonstrate that its RNAi-based products are superior to therapies based on different technologies. A number of RXi’s competitors have already commenced clinical testing of RNAi product candidates and may be more advanced than RXi is in the process of developing products. If RXi is not first to market or are unable to demonstrate superiority, any products for which RXi is able to obtain approval may not be successful. RXi will be dependent on technologies it licenses, and if it loses the right to license such technologies or fails to license new technologies in the future, its ability to develop new products would be harmed. Many patents in the RNAi field have already been exclusively licensed to third parties, including RXi’s competitors. If any of RXi’s existing licenses are terminated, the development of the products contemplated by the licenses could be delayed or terminated and RXi may not be able to negotiate additional licenses on acceptable terms, if at all, which would have a material adverse effect on RXi’s business. RXi may be unable to protect its intellectual property rights licensed from others parties, its intellectual property rights may be inadequate to prevent third parties from using its technologies or developing competing products, and RXi may need to license additional intellectual property from others. Therapeutic applications of gene silencing technologies, delivery methods and other technologies that RXi licenses from third parties are claimed in a number of pending patent applications, but there is no assurance that these applications will result in any issued patents or that those patents would withstand possible legal challenges or protect RXi’s technologies from competition. The United States Patent and Trademark Office and patent granting authorities in other countries have upheld stringent standards for the RNAi patents that have been prosecuted so far. Consequently, pending patents that RXi has licensed or owns may continue to experience long and difficult prosecution challenges and may ultimately issue with much narrower claims than those in the pending applications. Third parties may hold or seek to obtain additional patents that could make it more difficult or impossible for RXi to develop products based on RNAi technology without obtaining a license to such patents, which licenses may not be available to RXi on attractive terms, or at all. In addition, others may challenge the patents or patent applications that RXi currently licenses or may license in the future or that RXi owns and, as a result, these patents could be narrowed, invalidated or rendered unenforceable, which would negatively affect RXi’s ability to exclude others from using RNAi technologies described in these patents. There can be no assurance that these patent or other pending applications or issued 34 Table of Contents patents RXi licenses or owns will withstand possible legal challenges. Moreover, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect RXi’s proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Any patents issued to RXi or its licensors may not provide RXi with any competitive advantages, and there can be no assurance that the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on RXi’s ability to do business or to continue to use its technologies freely. RXi’s efforts to enforce and maintain its intellectual property rights may not be successful and may result in substantial costs and diversion of management time. Even if RXi’s rights are valid, enforceable and broad in scope, competitors may develop products based on technology that is not covered by RXi’s licenses or patents or patent application that it owns. In June 2010, we received a letter from Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Inc. claiming that we require access to Alnylam’s patent and patent applications and demanding that we stop engaging in unspecified alleged infringing activities unless we obtain a license from Alnylam. We understand that other companies working in the RNAi area have received similar letters from Alnylam. Although we believe that RXi’s current and planned activities do not infringe any valid patent rights of Alnylam, there is no assurance that RXi will not need to alter its development candidates or products or obtain a license to Alnylam’s rights to avoid any such infringement. There is no guarantee that future licenses will be available from third parties for RXi’s product candidates on satisfactory terms, or at all. To the extent that RXi is required and is able to obtain multiple licenses from third parties to develop or commercialize a product candidate, the aggregate licensing fees and milestones and royalty payments made to these parties may materially reduce RXi’s economic returns or cause RXi to abandon development or commercialization of a product candidate. RXi’s success depends upon its ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property protection for its products and technologies. The applications based on RNAi technologies claim many different methods, compositions and processes relating to the discovery, development, delivery and commercialization of RNAi therapeutics. Because this field is so new, very few of these patent applications have been fully processed by government patent offices around the world, and there is a great deal of uncertainty about which patents will issue, when, to whom, and with what claims. It is likely that there will be significant litigation and other proceedings, such as interference and opposition proceedings in various patent offices, relating to patent rights in the RNAi field and that RXi may be a party to such proceedings. RXi will rely upon third parties for the manufacture of its clinical product candidates. RXi does not have the facilities or expertise to manufacture supplies of any of its potential product candidates for clinical trials. Accordingly, RXi will be dependent upon contract manufacturers for these supplies. RXi currently obtains supplies for RXI-109 from a single supplier, Agilent Technologies, Nucleic Acid Solutions Division. If for any reason RXi is unable to obtain RXI-109 from this supplier, it would have to seek to obtain it from another major oligonucleotide manufacturer. There is no assurance that RXi will be able to timely secure needed supply arrangements on satisfactory terms, or at all. RXi’s failure to secure these arrangements as needed could have a material adverse effect on its ability to complete the development of its product candidates or, if RXi obtains regulatory approval for its product candidates, to commercialize them. RXi may not be able to establish or maintain the third-party relationships that are necessary to develop or potentially commercialize some or all of its product candidates. We expect that RXi will be dependent upon collaborators, partners, licensees, clinical research organizations and other third parties to support its discovery efforts, to formulate product candidates, to manufacture its product candidates and to conduct clinical trials for some or all of its product candidates. We cannot guarantee that RXi will be able to successfully negotiate agreements for or maintain relationships with collaborators, partners, licensees, clinical investigators, vendors and other third parties on favorable terms, if at all. RXi’s ability to successfully negotiate such agreements will depend on, among other things, potential partners’ evaluation of the superiority of RXi’s technology over competing technologies, the quality of the preclinical and clinical data that RXi has generated and the perceived risks specific to developing its product candidates. If RXi is unable to obtain or maintain these agreements, it may not be able to clinically develop, formulate, manufacture, obtain 35 Table of Contents regulatory approvals for or commercialize its product candidates. RXi cannot necessarily control the amount or timing of resources that its contract partners will devote to RXi’s research and development programs, product candidates or potential product candidates, and we cannot guarantee that these parties will fulfill their obligations to RXi under these arrangements in a timely fashion. RXi may not be able to readily terminate any such agreements with contract partners even if such contract partners do not fulfill their obligations to RXi. If RXi fails to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel, it may not be able to design, develop, market or sell its products or successfully manage its business. RXi’s business prospects are dependent on its management team and on RXi’s ability to identify, attract, retain and integrate additional qualified key personnel. RXi will need to recruit and hire a Chief Executive Officer to replace Mark J. Ahn, Ph.D., who currently serves on a part-time basis as RXi’s President. RXi also is seeking a new Chief Financial Officer, as well as other key employees. Competition for skilled research, product development, regulatory and technical personnel is intense, and RXi may not be able to recruit and retain the personnel it needs. The loss of the services of any key research, product development, regulatory and technical personnel, or RXi’s inability to hire new personnel with the requisite skills, could restrict RXi’s ability to develop its product candidates. RXi may not be able to obtain sufficient financing and may not be able to develop its product candidates. With the proceeds to be received in the RXi financing, we believe that RXi will have sufficient working capital to fund its currently planned expenditures through the first quarter of 2013. However, in the future RXi may need to incur debt or issue equity in order to fund its planned expenditures, as well as to make acquisitions and other investments. There is no assurance that debt or equity financing will be available to RXi on acceptable terms or at all. If RXi cannot, or is limited in the ability to, incur debt, issue equity or enter in strategic collaborations, RXi may be unable to fund discovery and development of its product candidates, address gaps in its product offerings or improve its technology. We anticipate that RXi will need to raise substantial amounts of money to fund a variety of future activities integral to the development of its business, which may include, but are not limited to, the following: • to conduct research and development to successfully develop its RNAi technologies; • to obtain regulatory approval for its products; • to file and prosecute patent applications and to defend and assess patents to protect its technologies; • to retain qualified employees, particularly in light of intense competition for qualified scientists; • to manufacture products itself or through third parties; • to market its products, either through building its own sales and distribution capabilities or relying on third parties; and • to acquire new technologies, licenses or products. We cannot assure that any needed financing will be available to RXi on acceptable terms or at all. If RXi cannot obtain additional financing in the future, its operations may be restricted, and it may ultimately be unable to continue to develop and potentially commercialize its product candidates. Future financing may be obtained by RXi through, and future development efforts may be paid for by, RXi’s issuance of debt or equity, which may have an adverse effect on Galena and RXi’s other stockholders or may otherwise adversely affect RXi’s business. If RXi raises funds through the issuance of debt or equity, any debt securities or preferred stock issued will have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock in the event of a liquidation. In such event, there is a possibility that once all senior claims are settled, there may be no assets remaining to pay out to the holders of common stock. In addition, if RXi raises funds through the issuance of additional equity, whether through private placements or public offerings, such an issuance would dilute Galena’s ownership in RXi. 36 Table of Contents The terms of debt securities may also impose restrictions on RXi’s operations, which may include limiting its ability to incur additional indebtedness, to pay dividends on or repurchase its capital stock, or to make certain acquisitions or investments. In addition, RXi may be subject to covenants requiring it to satisfy certain financial tests and ratios, and its ability to satisfy such covenants may be affected by events outside of RXi’s control. We expect that RXi will incur significant research and development expenses, which may make it difficult for RXi to attain profitability, and may lead to uncertainty about RXi’s ability to continue as a going concern. Substantial funds were expended to develop RXi’s RNAi technologies, and additional substantial funds will be required for further research and development, including preclinical testing and clinical trials of any product candidates, and to manufacture and market any products that are approved for commercial sale. Because the successful development of its products is uncertain, we are unable to precisely estimate the actual funds RXi will require to develop and potentially commercialize them. In addition, RXi may not be able to generate enough revenue, even if it is able to commercialize any of its product candidates, to become profitable. If RXi is unable to achieve or sustain profitability or to secure additional financing, it may not be able to meet its obligations as they come due, raising substantial doubts as to its ability to continue as a going concern. Any such inability to continue as a going concern may result in RXi’s common stock holders losing their entire investment. There is no guarantee that RXi will become profitable or secure additional financing. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 