Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the following risks, along with the other information contained in and incorporated into this annual report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that may affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties also may adversely affect our business and operations. If any of the following events actually occur, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. The recent economic recession could result in increases in our level of nonperforming loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which could adversely affect our results of operations. The recent recession contributed to a rise in unemployment and underemployment, a decline in the value of real estate and other assets and a lack of confidence in the financial markets and the economy both among financial institutions and their customers. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past several years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, negatively impacted the credit performance of real estate related loans and resulted in poor operating results and significant write-downs of asset values by many financial institutions. Asset write-downs, which initially were focused on asset-backed securities and later spread to other securities and loans, such as commercial and residential real estate loans, caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to reduce or eliminate dividends, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions, or made such funding more costly. This market disruption and tightening of credit led to a lack of liquidity, an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility, widespread reduction of business activity generally and increased competition for deposits and quality loans among financial institutions. Although the economy has shown signs that it is beginning to rebound from the recent recession, economic growth has been slow and inconsistent. The economic pressure on consumers and commercial borrowers and lack of confidence in the economy and financial markets resulting from the recent recession have adversely affected, and continue to affect, the willingness of companies to borrow to fund their future growth and otherwise decrease loan demand, which negatively impacts our business. Market developments and continuing economic uncertainty, including regarding concerns about U.S. debt levels and related governmental actions, including potential tax increases and cuts in government spending such as those imposed by the recent “sequester,” and continuing economic problems in Europe, may negatively affect business activity and consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns potentially, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates for financial institutions, which may impact charge-offs and provisions for credit and fraud losses. A continuation or worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on the banking industry and our business. The majority of our customers are businesses and individuals located or doing business in our target markets. As a result, we may be more impacted by a local economic downturn or recession than those of larger, more geographically diverse competitors. Furthermore, based on the size and resources of our small and medium size business customers, they may be less able to withstand sustained difficult economic conditions than larger companies with which they compete. Factors that adversely affect the economy in our target markets could reduce our deposit base and demand for our services and products and increase our credit losses. Consequently, we may be adversely affected, potentially materially, by adverse changes in economic conditions in and around our market areas. 14 The discounts and reserves we have taken against our loan portfolio based on our review of the recent recession’s impact on real estate values in our market areas may be insufficient. Furthermore, the economy could slip back into recession and further decline in real estate values could occur, either of which could lead to increased portfolio losses in the future that would materially and adversely affect us. Because our loan portfolio consists largely of commercial business and commercial real estate loans, our portfolio carries a higher degree of risk than would a portfolio composed primarily of residential mortgage loans. Our loan portfolio is made up largely of commercial business loans and commercial real estate loans, most of which is collateralized by real estate. These types of loans generally expose a lender to a higher degree of credit risk of non-payment and loss than do residential mortgage loans because of several factors, including dependence on the successful operation of a business or a project for repayment, the collateral securing these loans may not be sold as easily as residential real estate, and loan terms with a balloon payment rather than full amortization over the loan term. In addition, commercial real estate and commercial loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one-to four-family residential mortgage loans. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one-to four-family residential mortgage loan. Underwriting and portfolio management activities cannot completely eliminate all risks related to these loans. Any significant failure to pay on time by our customers or a significant default by our customers would materially and adversely affect us. We make both secured and some unsecured commercial and industrial loans. Unsecured loans generally involve a higher degree of risk of loss than do secured loans because, without collateral, repayment is wholly dependent upon the success of the borrowers’ businesses. Secured commercial and industrial loans are generally collateralized by accounts receivable, inventory, equipment or other assets owned by the borrower and include a personal guaranty of the business owner. Compared to real estate, that type of collateral is more difficult to monitor, its value is harder to ascertain, it may depreciate more rapidly and it may not be as readily saleable if repossessed. Further, commercial and industrial loans generally will be serviced primarily from the operation of the business, which may not be successful, and commercial real estate loans generally will be serviced from income on the properties securing the loans. The real estate collateral that secures our commercial and commercial real estate loans provides an alternate source of repayment for those loans in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. The real estate markets in Maryland have deteriorated in the last several years. Accordingly, it may be more difficult for commercial real estate borrowers to repay their loans in a timely manner in the current economic climate, as commercial real estate borrowers’ ability to repay their loans frequently depends on the successful development of their properties. We also may incur losses on commercial real estate loans due to declines in occupancy rates and rental rates, which may decrease property values and may decrease the likelihood that a borrower may find permanent financing alternatives. Currently, the availability of permanent financing alternatives in the market has been reduced and the terms have become more onerous, thereby increasing the re-financing risks inherent in our loan portfolio. Given the continued weaknesses in the commercial real estate market in general, there may be loans where the value of our collateral has been negatively impacted. The weakening of the commercial real estate market may increase the likelihood of default of these loans, which could negatively impact our loan portfolio’s performance and asset quality. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, we could incur material losses. Any of these events could increase our costs, require management time and attention, and materially and adversely affect us. Due to the economic recession and slow economic recovery, the real estate market and local economy has deteriorated. While the declines in the value of our real estate collateral securing loans have been reflected in existing reserves, further deterioration in the real estate market or a prolonged economic recovery could adversely affect the value of the properties securing the loans or revenues from borrowers’ businesses, thereby increasing the risk of non-performing loans. In addition, our commercial borrowers have been impacted by the current economic slowdown as consumers and other businesses have pulled back on spending. Small businesses that make up the majority of our commercial borrowers generally do not have the cash reserves to help cushion them from an economic slowdown to the same extent that large borrowers do and thus may be more heavily impacted by an economic downturn. A continued deterioration in the economy and slow economic recovery may also have a negative effect on the ability of our commercial borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which could have an adverse impact on our earnings. Current market conditions include an over-supply of land, lots and finished homes in many markets, including those where we do business. Construction loans are subject to risks during the construction phase that are not present in standard residential real estate and commercial real estate loans. These risks include: ·the viability of the contractor; ·the value of the project being subject to successful completion; ·the contractor’s ability to complete the project, to meet deadlines and time schedules and to stay within cost estimates; and ·concentrations of such loans with a single contractor and its affiliates. 15 Real estate construction and land loans also present risks of default in the event of declines in property values or volatility in the real estate market during the construction phase. If we are forced to foreclose on a project prior to completion, we may not be able to recover the entire unpaid portion of the loan, may be required to fund additional amounts to complete a project and may have to hold the property for an indeterminate amount of time. If any of these risks were to occur, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The federal banking agencies have issued guidance regarding high concentrations of commercial real estate loans within bank loan portfolios. The guidance requires financial institutions that exceed certain levels of commercial real estate lending compared with their total capital to maintain heightened risk management practices that address the following key elements: including board and management oversight and strategic planning, portfolio management, development of underwriting standards, risk assessment and monitoring through market analysis and stress testing, and maintenance of increased capital levels as needed to support the level of commercial real estate lending. If there is any deterioration in our commercial real estate or real estate construction and land portfolios or if our regulators conclude that we have not implemented appropriate risk management practices, it could adversely affect our business and result in a requirement of increased capital levels, and such capital may not be available at that time. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings would decrease. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is adequate for absorbing any potential losses in our loan portfolio. Management, through a periodic review and consideration of our loan portfolio, determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses. We cannot, however, predict with certainty the amount of probable losses in our portfolio or be sure that our allowance will be adequate in the future. If management’s assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb future losses, our losses will increase and our earnings will suffer. In particular, it is more difficult to estimate loan losses for those types of loans - commercial and commercial real estate - that constitute the majority of our portfolio as compared to, for example, residential mortgage loans. Also, because these types of loans tend to have large loan balances, a loss on a single loan could have a significant adverse effect on our operations. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover future incurred losses in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to the allowance and a corresponding decrease to earnings. Material additions to the allowance could materially decrease our net income. If delinquencies and defaults continue to increase, we may be required to further increase our provision for loan losses. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or further loan charge-offs to the allowance for loan losses. Any increase in the allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Because our loan portfolio includes residential real estate loans, our earnings are sensitive to the credit risks associated with these types of loans. While residential real estate loans are more diversified than loans to commercial borrowers, a systematic decline in the economic health of a community, such as major job loss, could materially and adversely affect us. Also, a continuing decline in the value of residential real estate that serves as our secondary source of repayment could also materially and adversely affect us. Uncertain political, credit and financial market conditions may reduce our net income, capital levels, liquidity and increase our future borrowing costs. We are invested in U.S. government agency securities and residential mortgage-backed securities issued or guaranteed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae. As a result of the uncertain domestic political, credit and financial market conditions, investments in these types of financial instruments pose risks arising from liquidity and credit concerns. On August 5, 2011, Standard and Poor’s downgraded the United States credit rating from its AAA rating to AA+. On August 8, 2011, Standard & Poor’s also downgraded the long-term credit ratings of U.S. government-sponsored enterprises. The impact of any further downgrades to the U.S. government’s sovereign credit rating, or its perceived creditworthiness, and the impact of the current crisis in Europe with respect to the ability of certain European Union countries to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations is inherently unpredictable and could adversely affect the U.S. and global financial markets and economic conditions. These events could affect the liquidity or valuation of our current portfolio of such investment securities in the future, and could result in our counterparties requiring additional collateral for our borrowings. Further, unless and until the current United States political, credit and financial market conditions have been sufficiently resolved, it may increase our future borrowing costs. 16 Our profitability depends on interest rates, and changes in interest rates could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our results of operations will depend to a large extent on our “net interest income,” which is the difference between the interest expense incurred in connection with our interest-bearing liabilities, such as interest on deposit accounts, and the interest income received from our interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities. Changes in interest rates can increase or decrease our net interest income, because different types of assets and liabilities may react differently, and at different times, to market interest rate changes. When interest bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than interest earning assets in a period, an increase in interest rates could reduce net interest income. Similarly, when interest earning assets mature or reprice more quickly than interest bearing liabilities, falling interest rates could reduce net interest income. Additionally, an increase in interest rates may, among other things, reduce the demand for loans and our ability to originate loans and decrease loan repayment rates. A decrease in the general level of interest rates may affect us through, among other things, increased prepayments on our loan and mortgage-backed securities portfolios and increased competition for deposits. Accordingly, changes in the level of market interest rates affect our net yield on interest earning assets, loan origination volume, loan and mortgage-backed securities portfolios, and our overall results. Fluctuations in interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are not predictable or controllable. Therefore, while we attempt to manage our risk from changes in market interest rates by adjusting the rates, maturity, repricing, and balances of the different types of interest-earning assets and interest bearing liabilities, we might not be able to maintain a consistent positive spread between the interest that we receive and the interest that we pay. As a result, a rapid increase or decrease in interest rates could have an adverse effect on our net interest margin and results of operations. Monetary policy and general economic conditions will influence our results of operations. Governmental economic and monetary policy will influence our results of operations. The rates of interest payable on deposits and chargeable on loans are affected by fiscal policy as determined by various governmental and regulatory authorities, in particular the Federal Reserve, as well as by national, state and local economic conditions. In addition, adverse general economic conditions may impair the ability of our borrowers to repay loans. Because the Bank serves a limited market area, we could be more adversely affected by an economic downturn in our market area than our larger competitors that are more geographically diverse. Our current primary market area consists of Howard County, Maryland and Anne Arundel County, Maryland, and our secondary market area includes the Maryland counties of Baltimore, Carroll and Harford and Baltimore City. Broad geographic diversification is not currently part of our community bank focus. As a result, if our market areas suffer an economic downturn, our business and financial condition may be more severely affected by such circumstances. In particular, due to the proximity of our primary and secondary market areas to Washington, D.C., decreases in spending by the Federal government, including as a result of recent cuts implemented by the “sequester” that became effective on March 1, could impact us more than banks that serve a larger or a different geographical area. Our larger bank competitors, for example, serve more geographically diverse market areas, parts of which may not be affected by the same economic conditions that may exist in our market areas. The small to medium-sized businesses that the Bank lends to may have fewer resources to weather a downturn in the economy, which may impair a borrower’s ability to repay a loan to the Bank that could materially harm our operating results. The Bank targets its business development and marketing strategy primarily to serve the banking and financial services needs of small to medium-sized businesses. These small to medium-sized businesses frequently have smaller market share than their competition, may be more vulnerable to economic downturns, often need substantial additional capital to expand or compete and may experience significant volatility in operating results. Any one or more of these factors may impair the borrower’s ability to repay a loan. In addition, the success of a small to medium-sized business often depends on the management talents and efforts of one or two persons or a small group of persons, and the death, disability or resignation of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on the business and its ability to repay a loan. Economic downturns and other events that negatively impact our market areas could cause the Bank to incur substantial credit losses that could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. We depend heavily on four key employees, Mary Ann Scully, Paul G. Brown, Charles E. Schwabe and George C. Coffman, to continue the implementation of our long-term business strategy and the loss of their services could disrupt our operations and result in reduced earnings. Ms. Scully is our President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Brown is an Executive Vice President and our Chief Lending Officer, Chief Client Services Officer and Chief Credit Risk Officer, Mr. Schwabe is an Executive Vice President and our Secretary, Chief Administrative Officer, Chief Information Officer and Chief Operational Risk Officer, and Mr. Coffman is an Executive Vice President and our Chief Financial Officer. We believe that our continued growth and future success will depend in large part on the skills of our senior management team. We believe our senior management team possesses valuable knowledge about and experience in the banking industry and that their knowledge and relationships would be difficult to replicate. We have entered into an employment agreement with each of Ms. Scully, Mr. Brown, Mr. Schwabe and Mr. Coffman and acquired key-person life insurance on each such executive officer, but the existence of such agreements and insurance does not assure that we will be able to retain their services or recover losses associated with the loss of their services. The unexpected loss of the services of Ms. Scully, Mr. Brown, Mr. Schwabe and Mr. Coffman could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, financial condition and operating results, as well as the value of our common stock. 17 Regulatory changes allowing the payment of interest on commercial accounts may negatively impact our core deposit strategy and our net interest income. Our current core deposit strategy includes continuing to increase our noninterest bearing commercial accounts in order to lower our cost of funds. Recent changes effected by the Dodd-Frank Act, however, permit the payment of interest on such accounts, which was previously prohibited. If our competitors begin paying interest on commercial accounts, this may increase competition from other financial institutions for these deposits and negatively affect our ability to continue to increase commercial deposit accounts, may require us to consider paying interest on such accounts, or may otherwise require us to revise our core deposit strategy, any of which could increase our interest expense and therefore our cost of funds and, as a result, decrease our net interest income which would adversely impact our results of operations. Our growth strategy may not be successful, may be dilutive and may have other adverse consequences. As previously noted, a key component of our growth strategy is to pursue acquisitions of other financial institutions or branches of other financial institutions. As consolidation of the banking industry continues, the competition for suitable acquisition candidates may increase. We compete with other banking companies for acquisition opportunities, and there are a limited number of candidates that meet our acquisition criteria. Consequently, we may not be able to identify suitable candidates for acquisitions. If we are unable to locate suitable acquisition candidates willing to sell on terms acceptable to us, our net income could decline and we would be required to find other methods to grow our business. We may also open additional branches organically and expand into new markets or offer new products and services. These activities would involve a number of risks, including: ·the time and expense associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger partners; ·using inaccurate estimates and judgments to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution or its branches or assets; ·diluting our existing stockholders in an acquisition; ·the time and expense associated with evaluating new markets for expansion, hiring experienced local management and opening new offices or branches as there may be a substantial time lag between these activities before we generate sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; ·operating in markets in which we have had no or only limited experience; ·taking a significant amount of time negotiating a transaction or working on expansion plans, resulting in management’s time and attention being diverted from the operation of our existing business; ·we may not be able to correctly identify profitable or growing markets for new branches; ·the time and expense associated with integrating the operations and personnel of the combined businesses; ·the ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition; ·creating an adverse short-term effect on our results of operations; ·losing key employees and customers as a result of an acquisition that is poorly received; ·time and costs associated with regulatory approvals; ·lack of information on a target institution or its branches or assets; ·inability to obtain additional financing (including by issuing additional common equity), if necessary, on favorable terms or at all; and ·unforeseen adjustments, write-downs, write-offs or restructuring or other impairment charges. In addition, we may not be able to integrate successfully or operate profitably any financial institutions we may acquire. We may experience disruption and incur unexpected expenses in integrating acquisitions. Any acquisitions we do make may not enhance our cash flows, business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects and may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, particularly during periods in which the acquisitions are being integrated into our operations. Also, the costs to lease and start up new branch facilities or to acquire existing financial institutions or branches, and the additional costs to operate these facilities, may increase our noninterest expense. It also may be difficult to adequately and profitably manage the anticipated growth from the new branches. We can provide no assurance that any new branch sites will successfully attract a sufficient level of deposits and other banking business to offset their operating expenses. Further, we plan to make significant investment in our infrastructure in the immediate future. We relocated our fifth branch during the first half of 2012. We also currently plan to open additional branches in the counties where we now operate and in other markets over the next few years. We anticipate that this will have the short-term effect of, at least temporarily, increasing our expenses at a faster rate than revenue growth, which will have an adverse effect on net income. 18 If we grow too quickly and are not able to control costs and maintain asset quality, growth could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Further, we may not be successful in our growth strategy, which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our need to comply with extensive and complex governmental regulation could have an adverse effect on our business and our growth strategy, and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. The banking industry is subject to extensive regulation by state and federal banking authorities. Many of these regulations are intended to protect depositors, the public or the FDIC insurance funds, not stockholders. Regulatory requirements affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and many other aspects of our business. These requirements may constrain our operations, and changes in regulations could adversely affect us. The burden imposed by these federal and state regulations may place banks in general, and Howard Bank specifically, at a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors. In addition, the cost of compliance with regulatory requirements could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably or increase profitability. See “Supervision and Regulation” for more information about applicable banking laws and regulations. Further, regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. If regulators require Howard Bank to charge-off loans or increase its allowance for loan losses, our earnings would suffer. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulation, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. For a further discussion, see “Supervision and Regulation.” In addition, because federal regulation of financial institutions changes regularly and is the subject of constant legislative debate, we cannot forecast how federal regulation of financial institutions may change in the future and impact our operations. Changes in regulation and oversight, including in the form of changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies or changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect the service and products we offer, increase our operating expenses, increase compliance challenges and otherwise adversely impact our financial performance and condition. In addition, the burden imposed by these federal and state regulations may place banks in general, and Howard Bank specifically, at a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors. Further, as a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting, insurance and other expenses in connection with compliance with rules of the SEC and the rules of The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC. The dividend rate on the Series AA Preferred Stock we issued in connection with the SBLF will fluctuate initially from 1% to 5% based on our level of “Qualified Small Business Lending,” or “QSBL,” as compared to our “baseline” level. The cost of the capital we received from the Series AA Preferred Stock will increase if the level of our “QSBL” as of September 30, 2013 does not represent an increase from our “baseline” level. This cost also will increase if we have not redeemed the Series AA Preferred Stock within 4.5 years of the closing of the SBLF transaction. The per annum dividend rate on the Series AA Preferred Stock can fluctuate on a quarterly basis during the first ten quarters during which the Series AA Preferred Stock is outstanding, based upon changes in the amount of qualified small business lending (“QSBL”), as defined in the Supplemental Reports related to the SBLF transaction, from a “baseline” level (“QSBL Baseline”). The dividend rate for the initial dividend period was 5.0% per annum. For the second dividend period through the ninth dividend period, the annual dividend rate may be adjusted to between 1% and 5%, to reflect the amount of percentage change in the Bank’s level of QSBL from the QSBL Baseline to the level as of the end of the second quarter preceding the dividend period in question. For the tenth dividend period through 4.5 years after the closing of the SBLF transaction, the annual dividend rate will be fixed at between 1% and 5%, based upon the percentage increase in QSBL from the QSBL Baseline to the level as of the end of the ninth dividend period (i.e., as of September 30, 2013) however, if there is no increase in QSBL from the QSBL Baseline to the level as of the end of the ninth dividend period (or if QSBL has decreased during that time period), the dividend rate will be fixed at 7%. Further, the potential dividend rate reduction in any period is limited, such that the reduction will not apply to any Series AA Preferred Stock proceeds that exceed the dollar amount of the increase in QSBL for that period as compared to the QSBL Baseline. In addition, if our QSBL is not above the QSBL Baseline at the end of the eighth dividend period, because of our participation in TARP Capital Purchase Program, we must also pay a lending incentive fee of 2% per annum (payable quarterly), calculated based on the liquidation value of the outstanding Series AA Preferred Stock as of the end of that quarter, beginning with dividend payment dates on or after April 1, 2014 and ending on April 1, 2016. After 4.5 years from the closing of the SBLF transaction, the annual dividend rate will be fixed at 9%, regardless of the level of QSBL. Depending on our financial condition at the time, any such increases in the dividend rate could have a material negative effect on our liquidity. 19 Failure to pay dividends on our Series AA Preferred Stock may have negative consequences, including external involvement in our board of directors. If dividends on the Series AA Preferred Stock are not paid in full for six quarterly dividend periods, whether or not consecutive, and if the aggregate liquidation preference amount of the then-outstanding shares of Series AA Preferred Stock is at least $25.0 million, the total number of positions on our board of directors will automatically increase by two and the holders of the Series AA Preferred Stock, acting as a single class, will have the right to elect two individuals to serve in the new director positions. This right and the terms of such directors will end when we have paid full dividends for at least four consecutive quarterly dividend periods. If full dividends have not been paid on the Series AA Preferred Stock for five or more quarterly dividend periods, whether or not consecutive, we must invite a representative selected by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series AA Preferred Stock, voting as a single class, to attend all meetings of our board of directors in a nonvoting observer capacity. Any such representative would not be obligated to attend any board meeting to which he or she is invited, and this right will end when we have paid full dividends for at least four consecutive dividend periods. Our preferred shares impact net income available to our common stockholders and our earnings per share. The dividends declared on the Series AA Preferred Stock reduce net income available to common shareholders and our earnings per common share. The Series AA Preferred Stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company. The Dodd-Frank Act may adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010, represents a comprehensive overhaul of the U.S. financial services industry. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act established the new CFPB, included provisions that allow financial institutions to pay interest on business checking accounts, broadens the base for FDIC insurance assessments, includes new restrictions on how mortgage brokers and loan originators may be compensated, included additional mortgage origination provisions including risk retention, and adds and modifies many other regulations applicable to insured depository institutions. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the CFPB and other federal agencies to implement many new and significant rules and regulations to implement its various provisions. There are many regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act that have not yet been proposed or adopted. We will not know the full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business for years until regulations implementing the statute are adopted and implemented. As a result, we cannot at this time predict the extent to which the Dodd-Frank Act will impact our business, operations or financial condition. However, compliance with these new laws and regulations may require us to make changes to our business and operations, impose on us more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements or otherwise adversely affect our business. These changes will also likely result in additional costs and a diversion of management’s time from other business activities and may decrease revenues by, for example, limiting the fees we can charge, any of which may adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. The new duties to be imposed on mortgage lenders, including a duty to determine the borrower’s ability to repay the loan and a requirement on mortgage securitizers to retain a minimum level of economic interest in securitized pools of certain mortgage types, may decrease the demand for mortgage loans. Any of these consequences, as well as the failure to comply with new requirements or any future changes in laws or regulations, may adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. For a more detailed description of the Dodd-Frank Act, see “Supervision and Regulation—The Dodd-Frank Act.” Federal and state banking agencies periodically conduct examinations of our business, including compliance with laws and regulations, and our failure to comply with any supervisory actions to which we are or become subject as a result of such examinations may adversely affect us. State and federal banking agencies, including the FDIC and the Maryland Office of the Commissioner of Financial Regulation, periodically conduct examinations of our business, including compliance with laws and regulations. If, as a result of an examination, a state or federal banking agency were to determine that the financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity or other aspects of any of our operations had become unsatisfactory, or that we or our management was in violation of any law or regulation, it may take a number of different remedial actions as it deems appropriate. These actions include the power to enjoin “unsafe or unsound” practices, to require affirmative actions to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, to issue an administrative order that can be judicially enforced, to direct an increase in our capital, to restrict our growth, to assess civil monetary penalties against our officers or directors, to remove officers and directors and, if it is concluded that such conditions cannot be corrected or there is an imminent risk of loss to depositors, to terminate the Bank’s deposit insurance. If we become subject to such regulatory actions, our business, results of operations and reputation may be negatively impacted. Many of our new activities and expansion plans require regulatory approvals, and failure to obtain them may restrict our growth. We intend to complement and expand our business by pursuing strategic acquisitions of banks and other financial institutions. We must generally receive regulatory approval before we can acquire an institution or business. Such regulatory approvals may not be granted on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. We may also be required to sell branches as a condition to receiving regulatory approval, which condition may not be acceptable to us or, if acceptable to us, may reduce the benefit of any acquisition. 20 In addition to the acquisition of existing financial institutions, as opportunities arise, we plan to continue de novo branching as a part of our internal growth strategy and possibly enter into new markets through de novo branching. De novo branching and any acquisition carries with it numerous risks, including the inability to obtain all required regulatory approvals. The failure to obtain these regulatory approvals for potential future strategic acquisitions and de novo branches may impact our business plans and restrict our growth. We may be required to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed on attractive terms, or at all. We are required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. Our capital requirements for the foreseeable future are currently satisfied. We may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend in part on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations could be materially impaired. In addition, if we decide to raise additional equity capital, your interest in Howard Bancorp could be diluted. Furthermore, if we raise additional capital through the issuance of debt securities, there can be no assurance that sufficient revenues or cash flow will exist to service such debt. The market value of our investments could negatively impact stockholders’ equity. All of our securities investment portfolio as of December 31, 2012 has been designated as available for sale pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 115, relating to accounting for investments. SFAS 115 requires that unrealized gains and losses in the estimated value of the available for sale portfolio be “marked to market” and reflected as a separate item in stockholders’ equity, net of tax. If the market value of the investment portfolio declines, this could cause a corresponding decline in stockholders’ equity. Our lending limit may limit our growth. We are limited in the amount we can loan to a single borrower by the amount of our capital. Generally, under current law, we may lend up to 15% of our unimpaired capital and surplus to any one borrower. Based upon our current capital levels, the amount we may lend is significantly less than that of many of our competitors and may discourage potential borrowers who have credit needs in excess of our lending limit from doing business with us. We accommodate larger loans by selling participations in those loans to other financial institutions, but this strategy may not always be available. We are a community bank and our ability to maintain our reputation is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance. We are a community bank, and our reputation is one of the most valuable components of our business. As such, we strive to conduct our business in a manner that enhances our reputation. This is done, in part, by recruiting, hiring and retaining employees who share our core values of being an integral part of the communities we serve, delivering superior service to our customers and caring about our customers and associates. If our reputation is negatively affected, by the actions of our employees or otherwise, our business and, therefore, our operating results may be materially adversely affected. We are subject to security and operational risks relating to our use of technology that could damage our reputation and our business. Security breaches in our Internet banking activities or other communication and information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on standard Internet and other security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. These precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of our security measures. Increased and/or special FDIC assessments will hurt our earnings. The recent economic recession has caused a high level of bank failures, which has dramatically increased FDIC resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the balance of the Deposit Insurance Fund. As a result, the FDIC has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. Increases in the base assessment rate have increased our deposit insurance costs and negatively impacted our earnings. In addition, in May 2009, the FDIC imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions. Our special assessment, which was reflected in earnings for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, was $115,000. In lieu of imposing an additional special assessment, the FDIC required all institutions to prepay their assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. Additional increases in the base assessment rate or special assessments would negatively impact our earnings. 21 Strong competition within our market area may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market area, we compete with, among others, commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, mutual funds, and insurance companies operating locally and elsewhere. There are also a number of smaller community-based banks that pursue similar operating strategies as Howard Bank. In addition, some of our competitors have recently offered loans with lower fixed rates and loans on more attractive terms than we have been willing to offer. Our continued profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market area. The greater resources and deposit and loan products offered by our competition may limit our ability to increase our interest earning assets. See “Item 1. Business—Competition” for more information about competition in our market area. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Increased competition among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions may adversely affect our ability to market our products and services. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for banks to compete in our market without a retail footprint by offering competitive rates, as well as non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for certain products and services than we can, which could affect our ability to grow and remain profitable on a long-term basis. Our profitability depends upon our ability to successfully compete in our market area. If we must raise interest rates paid on deposits or lower interest rates charged on our loans, our net interest margin and profitability could be adversely affected. Anti-takeover provisions in our corporate documents and in Maryland corporate law may make it difficult and expensive to remove current management. Anti-takeover provisions in our corporate documents and in Maryland law may render the removal of our existing board of directors and management more difficult. Consequently, it may be difficult and expensive for our stockholders to remove current management, even if current management is not performing adequately. Our articles of incorporation limit the liability of our directors and officers. Our articles of incorporation provide that, to the full extent permitted by Maryland law, no director or officer of Howard Bancorp will be liable to us or our stockholders for money damages. This limitation could impair the ability of us and our stockholders to recover for damages resulting from acts or omissions of our directors and officers. The market price for our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to changes in sentiment in the market regarding our operations or business prospects. Factors that may affect market sentiment include: ·operating results that vary from the expectations of our management or of securities analysts and investors; ·developments in our business or in the financial service sector generally; ·regulatory or legislative changes affecting our industry generally or our business and operations in particular; ·operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us; ·changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; ·announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions, dispositions, financings and other material events by us or our competitors; and ·changes in financial markets and national and local economies and general market conditions, such as interest rates and stock, commodity, credit or asset valuations or volatility. Since 2008 and continuing through the present, the business environment for financial services firms has been extremely challenging. During this period many publicly traded financial services companies have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance or prospects of such companies. We may experience market fluctuations that are not directly related to our operating performance but are influenced by the market’s perception of the state of the financial services industry in general and, in particular, the market’s assessment of general credit quality conditions, including default and foreclosure rates in the industry. 22 While the U.S. and other governments continue efforts to restore confidence in financial markets and promote economic growth, further market and economic turmoil could still occur in the near- or long-term, negatively affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as the price, trading volume and volatility of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 