ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to numerous risks. We caution you that the following important factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf in filings with the SEC, press releases, communications with investors and oral statements. Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this annual report on Form 10-K and in any other public statements we make may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors mentioned in the discussion below will be important in determining future results. Consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. Actual future results may vary materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements. When used in this Form 10-K, the words “believe,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “estimate,” “intend,” “plan,” “project,” “will be,” “will continue,” “will result,” “seek,” “could,” “may,” “might” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. We explicitly disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to 18 Table of Contents reflect events or circumstances that arise after the date hereof. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosure we make in our reports filed with the SEC. Risks Relating to RXi’s Business and Industry The approach we are taking to discover and develop novel therapeutics using RNAi is unproven and may never lead to marketable products. The scientific discoveries that form the basis for our efforts to discover and develop new drugs are relatively new. The RNAi technologies that we have licensed or have created internally and that we intend to develop have not yet been clinically tested by us, nor are we aware of any clinical trials for efficacy having been completed by third parties involving these technologies. To date, neither we nor any other company has received regulatory approval to market therapeutics utilizing RNAi and a number of clinical trials of third parties’ RNAi technology has been unsuccessful. The scientific evidence to support the feasibility of developing drugs based on these discoveries is both preliminary and limited. Successful development of RNAi-based products by us will require solving a number of issues, including providing suitable methods of stabilizing the RNAi material and delivering it into target cells in the human body. We may spend large amounts of money trying to solve these issues and never succeed in doing so. In addition, any compounds that we develop may not demonstrate in patients the chemical and pharmacological properties ascribed to them in laboratory studies, and they may interact with human biological systems in unforeseen, ineffective or even harmful ways. Further, our exclusive focus on RNAi technology for developing products as opposed to multiple, more proven technologies for drug development increases the risk associated with our business. If we are not successful in developing a product candidate using RNAi technology, we may not be able to identify and successfully implement an alternative product development strategy. We will be subject to competition and may not be able to compete successfully. A number of medical institutions and pharmaceutical companies are seeking to develop therapeutic products using RNAi technologies, including for at least some of the disease indications we have been focusing our efforts on to date. Companies working in the RNAi area include: Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, MDRNA, Cequent Pharmaceuticals, Tacere Therapeutics, Benitec, OPKO Health, Silence Therapeutics, Quark Pharmaceuticals, Rosetta Genomics, Lorus Therapeutics, Tekmira Pharmaceuticals Corporation, Calando Pharmaceuticals, Regulus Therapeutics, and Santaris Pharmaceuticals, as well as a number of the large pharmaceutical companies. In addition, a number of companies are developing therapeutics for the same diseases we are targeting using technologies other than RNA interference, and, for some of these diseases, there are existing therapeutics being marketed currently. Most of these competitors have substantially greater research and development capabilities and financial, scientific, technical, manufacturing, marketing, distribution, and other resources than us, and we may not be able to successfully compete with them. In addition, even if we are successful in developing our product candidates, in order to compete successfully we may need to be first to market or to demonstrate that our RNAi based products are superior to therapies based on different technologies. A number of our competitors have already commenced clinical testing of RNAi product candidates and may be more advanced than are we in the process of developing products. If we are not first to market or are unable to demonstrate such superiority, any products for which we are able to obtain approval may not be successful. We may not be able to establish or maintain the third party relationships that are necessary to develop or potentially commercialize some or all of our product candidates. We expect to depend on collaborators, partners, licensees, clinical research organizations and other third parties to support our discovery efforts, to formulate product candidates, and to conduct clinical trials for some or all of our product candidates. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully negotiate agreements for or maintain relationships with collaborators, partners, licensees, clinical investigators and other third parties on favorable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain or maintain these agreements, we may not be able to 19 Table of Contents clinically develop, formulate, manufacture, obtain regulatory approvals for or commercialize our product candidates. Under certain license agreements that we have already entered into, we have minimum dollar amounts per year that we are obligated to spend on the development of the technology we have licensed from our contract partners. If we fail to meet this requirement under any of our licenses that contain such requirements or any other obligations under these licenses, we may be in breach of our obligations under such agreement, which may result in the loss of the technology licensed. We cannot necessarily control the amount or timing of resources that our contract partners will devote to our research and development programs, product candidates or potential product candidates, and we cannot guarantee that these parties will fulfill their obligations to us under these arrangements in a timely fashion. We may not be able to readily terminate any such agreements with contract partners even if such contract partners do not fulfill their obligations to us. We are dependent on technologies we license, and if we lose the right to license such technologies or we fail to license new technologies in the future, our ability to develop new products would be harmed. We currently are dependent on licenses from third parties for our key technologies relating to fundamental RNAi technologies. Our current licenses impose, and any future licenses we enter into are likely to impose, various development, funding, royalty, diligence, sublicensing, insurance and other obligations on us. If our license with respect to any of these technologies is terminated for any reason, the development of the products contemplated by the licenses would be delayed, or suspended altogether, while we seek to license similar technology or develop new non-infringing technology. The costs of obtaining new licenses are high, and many patents in the RNAi field have already been exclusively licensed to third parties, including our competitors. If any of our existing licenses are terminated, the development of the products contemplated by the licenses could be delayed or terminated and we may not be able to negotiate additional licenses on acceptable terms, if at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. We will rely upon third parties for the manufacture of our clinical product candidates. We do not have the facilities or expertise to manufacture supplies of any of our potential product candidates. Accordingly, we will be dependent upon contract manufacturers for these supplies. We currently manufacture limited quantities of our product candidates for our research activities at our facility, and we have no manufacturing supply arrangements for any of our product candidates. There can be no assurance that we will be able to secure needed supply arrangements on attractive terms, or at all. Our failure to secure these arrangements as needed could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to complete the development of our product candidates or, if we obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, to commercialize them. Our current plans call for the manufacture of our rxRNA compounds and, as necessary, any delivery vehicles that may be used to deliver our rxRNA compounds by contract manufacturers offering research grade, Good Laboratory grade and Good Manufacturing Practices grade materials for preclinical studies (e.g. toxicology studies) and for clinical use. We anticipate the chemistry, manufacturing and controls for each RNAi active pharmaceutical ingredient will be addressed by our clinical development team in close collaboration with a contract manufacturer with extensive experience in RNA drug synthesis. RNA is a complex molecule requiring many synthesis steps, which may lead to challenges with purification and scale-up. These challenges could result in increased costs and delays in manufacturing. Additionally, although we are not currently aware of any such litigation or threatened litigation or challenge, if we were involved in litigation or faced threatened litigation regarding or challenge to the composition or intellectual property covering such composition of our products candidates in the future, manufacturers may refuse to manufacture such compounds. Any drug candidates we develop may fail in development or be delayed or may not be commercially viable. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the sale of any drug candidate, we must conduct, at our own expense, extensive pre-clinical tests and clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy in humans of our drug candidates. However, we are required to do extensive testing in animal models with our product candidates before we can be approved by the FDA to initiate clinical trials in humans. Furthermore, we cannot 20 Table of Contents be sure that our product candidates will be safely tolerated by humans or be efficacious. All of our products in development must be approved by the FDA or similar foreign governmental agencies before they can be marketed. The process for obtaining FDA approval is both time-consuming and costly, with no certainty of a successful outcome. This process typically includes the conduct of extensive preclinical and clinical testing, which may take longer or cost more than we anticipate, and may prove unsuccessful due to numerous factors. A failure of one or more of our pre-clinical studies or clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. Product candidates that may appear to be promising at early stages of development may not successfully reach the market for a number of reasons. The results of pre-clinical and initial clinical testing of these products may not necessarily indicate the results that will be obtained from later or more extensive testing. Companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after obtaining promising results in earlier trials. We, the FDA or other applicable regulatory authorities, or an institutional review board (“IRB”), an independent committee under the oversight of the United States Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”), which has been formally registered with HHS and functions to approve, monitor and review biomedical and behavioral research involving humans, may suspend clinical trials of a drug candidate at any time for various reasons, including if we or they believe the subjects or patients participating in such trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks. Among other reasons, adverse side effects of a drug candidate on subjects or patients in a clinical trial could result in the FDA or other regulatory authorities suspending or terminating the trial and refusing to approve a particular drug candidate for any or all indications of use. Clinical trials of a new drug candidate require the enrollment of a sufficient number of patients, including patients who are suffering from the disease the drug candidate is intended to treat and who meet other eligibility criteria. Rates of patient enrollment are affected by many factors, and delays in patient enrollment can result in increased costs and longer development times. Clinical trials also require the review and oversight of IRBs, which approve and continually review clinical investigations and protect the rights and welfare of human subjects. An inability or delay in obtaining IRB approval could prevent or delay the initiation and completion of clinical trials, and the FDA may decide not to consider any data or information derived from a clinical investigation not subject to initial and continuing IRB review and approval. Numerous factors could affect the timing, cost or outcome of our drug development efforts, including the following: • Delays in filing initial drug applications, • Difficulty in securing centers to conduct trials, • Conditions imposed on us by the FDA or comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials, • Problems in engaging IRBs to oversee trials or problems in obtaining or maintaining IRB approval of studies, • Difficulty in enrolling patients in conformity with required protocols or projected timelines, • Third party contractors failing to comply with regulatory requirements or meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner, • Our drug candidates having very different chemical and pharmacological properties in humans than in laboratory testing and interacting with human biological systems in unforeseen, ineffective or harmful ways, • The need to suspend or terminate our clinical trials if the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks, • Insufficient or inadequate supply or quality of our drug candidates or other necessary materials necessary to conduct our clinical trials, 21 Table of Contents • Effects of our drug candidates not being the desired effects or including undesirable side effects or the drug candidates having other unexpected characteristics. • The cost of our clinical trials may be greater than we anticipate, • Negative or inconclusive results from our clinical trials or the clinical trials of others for drug candidates similar to our own or inability to generate statistically significant data confirming the efficacy of the product being tested, • Changes in the FDA’s requirements for our testing during the course of that testing, • Modification of the drug during testing, • Reallocation of our limited financial and other resources to other clinical programs, and • Adverse results obtained by other companies developing RNAi drugs. The substances we are intending to develop may represent a new class of drug, and the FDA has not yet established any definitive policies, practices or guidelines in relation to these drugs. While we expect any product candidates that we develop will be regulated as a new drug under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the FDA could decide to regulate them or other products we may develop as biologics under the Public Health Service Act. The lack of policies, practices or guidelines may hinder or slow review by the FDA of any regulatory filings that we may submit. Moreover, the FDA may respond to these submissions by defining requirements that we may not have anticipated. It is possible that none of the product candidates that we develop will obtain the appropriate regulatory approvals necessary for us to begin selling them or that any regulatory approval to market a product may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which we may market the product. The time required to obtain FDA and other approvals is unpredictable but often can take years following the commencement of clinical trials, depending upon the complexity of the drug candidate. Any analysis we perform of data from clinical activities is subject to confirmation and interpretation by regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Any delay or failure in obtaining required approvals could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue from the particular drug candidate. We are also subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing authorization, pricing and third-party reimbursement. The foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with FDA approval described above as well as risks attributable to the satisfaction of local regulations in foreign jurisdictions. Approval by the FDA does not assure approval by regulatory authorities outside of the United States. The FDA approval process may be delayed for any drugs we develop that require the use of specialized drug delivery devices or vehicles. Some drug candidates that we develop may need to be administered using specialized vehicles that deliver RNAi therapeutics directly to diseased parts of the body. For example, we may use an implantable pump to deliver certain potential drug candidates to the nervous system. The drug delivery vehicles that we expect to deliver our drug candidates have not been approved by the FDA or other regulatory agencies. In addition, the FDA may regulate the product as a combination product of a drug and a device or require additional approvals or clearances for the modified delivery. Further, to the extent the specialized delivery vehicle is owned by another company, we would need that company’s cooperation to implement the necessary changes to the vehicle, or its labeling, and to obtain any additional approvals or clearances. Any delays in finding suitable drug delivery vehicles to administer RNAi therapeutics directly to diseased parts of the body could negatively affect our ability to successfully develop our RNAi therapeutics. 22 Table of Contents If we are not successful in developing pre-clinical product candidates, we will not be able to commence clinical trials in humans or obtain approval for our product candidates. We are in the new drug discovery phase and we have not yet identified any lead compounds for therapeutic development. RNA interference is a relatively new scientific field, and the technologies are still in the early stage of development. We have no compounds in pre-clinical toxicology studies, and we may not be able to advance any product candidate through the pre-clinical stage into clinical trials. Additionally, our development efforts may never result in the identification of a pre-clinical candidate which we are able to successfully develop into a drug. Even if we are able to designate a lead candidate, we may not be able to identify data that would support entering such a candidate into clinical trials. Furthermore, even if we successfully enter into clinical studies, the results from pre-clinical testing of a drug candidate may not predict the results that will be obtained on human clinical trials. Even if we obtain regulatory approvals, our marketed drugs will be subject to ongoing regulatory review. If we fail to comply with continuing U.S. and foreign regulations, we could lose our approvals to market drugs and our business would be materially adversely affected. Following any initial regulatory approval of any drugs we may develop, we will also be subject to continuing regulatory review, including the review of adverse drug experiences and clinical results that are reported after our drug products are made available to patients. This would include results from any post marketing tests or vigilance required as a condition of approval. The manufacturer and manufacturing facilities we use to make any of our drug candidates will also be subject to periodic review and inspection by the FDA. The discovery of any new or previously unknown problems with the product, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the drug or manufacturer or facility, including withdrawal of the drug from the market. Our product promotion and advertising also will be subject to regulatory requirements and continuing regulatory review. If we fail to comply with applicable continuing regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approval, product recalls and seizures, operating restrictions and other adverse consequences. Even if we receive regulatory approval to market our product candidates, our product candidates may not be accepted commercially, which may prevent us from becoming profitable. The product candidates that we are developing are based on new technologies and therapeutic approaches. RNAi products may be more expensive to manufacture than traditional small molecule drugs, which may make them more costly than competing small molecule drugs. Additionally, for various applications, RNAi products are likely to require injection or implantation, and do not readily cross the so-called blood brain barrier, which will make them less convenient to administer than drugs administered orally. Key participants in the pharmaceutical marketplace, such as physicians, medical professionals working in large reference laboratories, public health laboratories and hospitals, third-party payors and consumers, may not accept products intended to improve therapeutic results based on RNAi technology. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to convince the medical community and third-party payors to accept and use our product, or to provide favorable reimbursement. And if medical professionals working with large reference laboratories, public health laboratories and hospitals choose not to adopt and use our RNAi technology, our products may not achieve broader market acceptance. Other factors that we believe will materially affect market acceptance of our product candidates include: • The timing of our receipt of any marketing approvals, the terms of any approvals and the countries in which approvals are obtained, • The safety, efficacy and ease of administration of our product candidates, • The advantages of our product candidates over those of our competitors, • The willingness of patients to accept relatively new therapies, • The success of our physician education programs, 23 Table of Contents • The availability of government and third-party payor reimbursement, • The pricing of our products, particularly as compared to alternative treatments, and • The availability of effective alternative treatments and the relative risks and/or benefits of the treatments. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights licensed from others parties, our intellectual property rights may be inadequate to prevent third parties from using our technologies or developing competing products, and we may need to license additional intellectual property from others. We have a non-exclusive license to the Fire-Mello patent owned by UMMS and the Carnegie Institution of Washington, which claims various aspects of RNAi or genetic inhibition by double stranded RNA. This license continues to be available to third parties, and as such it does not provide us with the ability to exclude others from its use or protect us from competition. Therapeutic applications of gene silencing technologies, delivery methods, and other technologies that we license from third parties are claimed in a number of pending patent applications, but there can be no assurance that these applications will result in any issued patents or that those patents would withstand possible legal challenges or protect our technologies from competition. United States Patent and Trademark Office and patent granting authorities in other countries have upheld stringent standards for the RNAi patents that have been prosecuted so far. Consequently, pending patents that we have licensed and those that we own may continue to experience long and difficult prosecution challenges and may ultimately issue with much narrower claims than those in the pending applications. We are aware of a number of issued patents covering various particular forms and compositions of RNAi-mediating molecules and therapeutic methods. Third parties may hold or seek to obtain additional patents that could make it more difficult or impossible for us to develop products based on RNAi technology without obtaining a license to such patents, which licenses may not be available on attractive terms or at all. In addition, others may challenge the patents or patent applications that we currently license or may license in the future or that we own and, as a result, these patents could be narrowed, invalidated or rendered unenforceable, which would negatively affect our ability to exclude others from use of RNAi technologies described in these patents. There can be no assurance that these patent or other pending applications or issued patents we license or that we own will withstand possible legal challenges. Moreover, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Any patents issued to us or our licensors may not provide us with any competitive advantages, and there can be no assurance that the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our ability to do business or to continue to use our technologies freely. Our efforts to enforce and maintain our intellectual property rights may not be successful and may result in substantial costs and diversion of management time. Even if our rights are valid, enforceable and broad in scope, competitors may develop products based on technology that is not covered by our licenses or patents or patent application that we own. We may need to license additional intellectual property rights from third parties in order to be able to complete the development or enhance the efficacy of our product candidates or avoid possible infringement of the rights of others. Additionally, many of our UMMS licenses are limited to ALS, obesity, diabetes and cancer, and in order to pursue other diseases against proprietary gene targets, we may need licenses from other third parties that may be unavailable. There is no assurance that we will be able to acquire any additional intellectual property rights on satisfactory terms, or at all. To the extent that we are required and are able to obtain multiple licenses from third parties to develop or commercialize a product candidate, the aggregate licensing fees and milestones and royalty payments made to these parties may materially reduce our economic returns or even cause us to abandon development or commercialization of a product candidate. In addition to our licenses, we also rely on copyright and trademark protection, trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovation and licensing opportunities. In an effort to maintain the confidentiality and ownership of our trade secrets and proprietary information, we require our employees, consultants, advisors and others to whom we disclose confidential information to execute confidentiality and proprietary information agreements. However, it is possible that these agreements may be breached, invalidated or rendered unenforceable, and if so, there may not be an adequate corrective remedy available. Furthermore, like many companies 24 Table of Contents in our industry, we may from time to time hire scientific personnel formerly employed by other companies involved in one or more areas similar to the activities we conduct. In some situations, our confidentiality and proprietary information agreements may conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom our employees, consultants or advisors have prior employment or consulting relationships. Although we require our employees and consultants to maintain the confidentiality of all confidential information of previous employers, we or these individuals may be subject to allegations of trade secret misappropriation or other similar claims as a result of their prior affiliations. Finally, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques, or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Our failure to protect our proprietary information and techniques may inhibit or limit our ability to exclude certain competitors from the market and execute our business strategies. Our success depends upon our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property protection for our products and technologies. Our success will depend on our ability to obtain and maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property covering our product candidates and technologies. The ultimate degree of patent protection that will be afforded to biotechnology products and processes, including ours, in the United States and in other important markets remains uncertain and is dependent upon the scope of protection decided upon by the patent offices, courts and lawmakers in these countries. There is no certainty that our existing patents, or patent applications if obtained, will afford us substantial protection or commercial benefit. Similarly, there is no assurance that our pending patent applications or patent applications licensed from third parties will ultimately be granted as patents or that those patents that have been issued or are issued in the future will stand if they are challenged in court. These applications claim many different methods, compositions and processes relating to the discovery, development, delivery and commercialization of RNAi therapeutics. Because the field is so new, very few of these patent applications have been fully processed by government patent offices around the world, and there is a great deal of uncertainty about which patents will issue, when, to whom, and with what claims. While we are not aware of any litigation, threatened litigation or challenge to our intellectual property rights, it is likely that there will be significant litigation and other proceedings, such as interference and opposition proceedings in various patent offices, relating to patent rights in the RNAi field. There may be patent or other intellectual property rights belonging to others that require us to alter our products, pay licensing fees or cease certain activities. If our products infringe patent or other intellectual property rights of others, the owners of those rights could bring legal actions against us claiming damages and seeking to enjoin manufacturing and marketing of the affected products. If these legal actions are successful, in addition to any potential liability for damages, we could be required to obtain a license in order to continue to manufacture or market the affected products. We may not prevail in any action brought against us, and any license required under any rights that we infringe may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. Others may attempt to invalidate our intellectual property rights or those of our licensors. Even if our rights, or those of our licensors, are not directly challenged, disputes among third parties could lead to the weakening or invalidation of our intellectual property rights. Any attempt by third parties to circumvent or invalidate our intellectual property rights could be costly to defend, require significant time and attention of our management and have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to potential liabilities from clinical testing and future product liability claims. If any of our future products are alleged to be defective, they may expose us to claims for personal injury by patients in clinical trials of our products or by patients using our commercially marketed products. Even if the marketing of one or more of our products is approved by the FDA, users may claim that such products caused unintended adverse effects. We will seek to obtain clinical trial insurance for clinical trials that we conduct, as well as liability insurance for any products that we market. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain insurance in the amounts we seek, or at all. We anticipate that licensees who develop our products will carry liability insurance covering the clinical testing and marketing of those products. There is no assurance, however, that any insurance maintained by us or our licensees will prove adequate in the event 25 Table of Contents of a claim against us. Even if claims asserted against us are unsuccessful, they may divert management’s attention from our operations and we may have to incur substantial costs to defend such claims. Any drugs we develop may become subject to unfavorable pricing regulations, third-party reimbursement practices or healthcare reform initiatives, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We intend to sell our products primarily to hospitals which receive reimbursement for the health care services they provide to their patients from third-party payors, such as Medicare, Medicaid and other domestic and international government programs, private insurance plans and managed care programs. Most third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a medical product was not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods, as determined by the third-party payor, or was used for an unapproved indication. Third-party payors also may refuse to reimburse for experimental procedures and devices. Furthermore, because our programs are in the early stages of development, we are unable at this time to determine their cost-effectiveness and the level or method of reimbursement for them. Increasingly, the third-party payors who reimburse patients are requiring that drug companies provide them with predetermined discounts from list prices, and are challenging the prices charged for medical products. If the price we are able to charge for any products we develop is inadequate in light of our development and other costs, our profitability could be adversely effected. We currently expect that any drugs we develop may need to be administered under the supervision of a physician. Under currently applicable law, drugs that are not usually self-administered may be eligible for coverage by the Medicare program if: • They are “incidental” to a physician’s services, • They are “reasonable and necessary” for the diagnosis or treatment of the illness or injury for which they are administered according to accepted standard of medical practice, • They are not excluded as immunizations, and • They have been approved by the FDA. There may be significant delays in obtaining insurance coverage for newly-approved drugs, and insurance coverage may be more limited than the purpose for which the drug is approved by the FDA. Moreover, eligibility for insurance coverage does not imply that any drug will be reimbursed in all cases or at a rate that covers our costs, including research, development, manufacture, sale and distribution. Interim payments for new drugs, if applicable, may also not be sufficient to cover our costs and may not be made permanent. Reimbursement may be based on payments for other services and may reflect budgetary constraints or imperfections in Medicare data. Net prices for drugs may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government health care programs or private payors and by any future relaxation of laws that presently restrict imports of drugs from countries where they may be sold at lower prices than in the United States. Third-party payors often rely upon Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates. Our inability to promptly obtain coverage and profitable reimbursement rates from both government-funded and private payors for new drugs that we develop could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, our ability to raise capital needed to develop products, and our overall financial condition. Additionally, third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for medical products and services. Levels of reimbursement may decrease in the future, and future legislation, regulation or reimbursement policies of third-party payors may adversely affect the demand for and price levels of our products. If our customers are not reimbursed for our products, they may reduce or discontinue purchases of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Comprehensive health care reform legislation, which was recently adopted by Congress and was subsequently signed into law, could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Among other provisions, the legislation provides that a “biosimilar” product may be approved by the FDA on the basis of 26 Table of Contents analytical tests and certain clinical studies demonstrating that such product is highly similar to an existing, approved product and that switching between an existing product and the biosimilar product will not result in diminished safety or efficacy. This abbreviated regulatory approval process may result in increased competition if we are able to bring a product to market. The legislation also includes more stringent compliance programs for companies in various sectors of the life sciences industry with which we may need to comply and enhanced penalties for non-compliance with the new health care regulations. Complying with new regulations may divert management resources, and inadvertent failure to comply with new regulations may result in penalties being imposed on us. Some states and localities have established drug importation programs for their citizens, and federal drug import legislation has been introduced in Congress. The Medicare Prescription Drug Plan legislation, which became law in December 2003, required the Secretary of Health and Human Services to promulgate regulations for drug reimportation from Canada into the United States under some circumstances, including when the drugs are sold at a lower price than in the United States. The Secretary, however, retained the discretion not to implement a drug reimportation plan if he finds that the benefits do not outweigh the costs, and has so far declined to approve a reimportation plan. Proponents of drug reimportation may attempt to pass legislation that would directly allow reimportation under certain circumstances. Legislation or regulations allowing the reimportation of drugs, if enacted, could decrease the price we receive for any products that we may develop and adversely affect our future revenues and prospects for profitability. If we fail to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel, we may not be able to design, develop, market or sell our products or successfully manage our business. We are highly dependent on our named executive officers and Scientific Advisory Board (“SAB”) members. The continued service of our named executive officers and SAB members is critical to our success. We have entered into employment agreements with our named executive officers, all of which can be terminated by such persons on shortnotice. The loss of any of our named executive officers or SAB members, or our inability to identify, attract, retain and integrate additional qualified key personnel, could make it difficult for us to manage our business successfully and achieve our business objectives. Competition for skilled research, product development, regulatory and technical personnel also is intense, and we may not be able to recruit and retain the personnel we need. The loss of the services of any key research, product development, regulatory, and technical personnel, or our inability to hire new personnel with the requisite skills, could restrict our ability to develop our product candidates. We use biological and hazardous materials and if we do not comply with laws regulating the protection of the environment and health and human safety, our business could be adversely affected. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of potentially harmful biological materials as well as hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury; we could be held liable for any damages that result, and any liability could exceed our resources. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and specific waste products. We are also subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations could be significant and may adversely affect capital expenditures to the extent we are required to procure expensive capital equipment to meet regulatory requirements. We are also subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. We maintain workers’ compensation insurance to cover us for costs and expenses we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of these materials. The limits of our workers’ compensation insurance are mandated by state law, and our workers’ compensation liability is capped at these state-mandated limits. We do not maintain insurance for environmental liability or toxic tort claims 27 Table of Contents that may be asserted against us in connection with our storage or disposal of biological, hazardous or radioactive materials. Additional federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting our operations may be adopted in the future. We may incur substantial costs to comply with, and substantial fines or penalties if we violate any of these laws or regulations. Risks Relating Our Financial Position and Capital Requirements We may not be able to obtain sufficient financing, and may not be able to develop our product candidates. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalent should be sufficient to fund our operations through at least the first half of 2011. In the future, we will be dependent on obtaining further financing from third parties in order to maintain our operations and to meet our financial obligations. In addition, until its expiration on January 30, 2011, we also have available to us the SEDA that we entered into on January 30, 2009. However, before we are able to access additional capital from the SEDA, we must satisfy certain conditions, including the requirement that shares of our stock to be sold to YA Global be registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), and there is risk of delays in our satisfying these conditions. We cannot assure that additional debt or equity or other funding to maintain our operations and to meet our obligations to our licensors will be available to us in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. If we fail to obtain additional funding when needed, we would be forced to scale back, or terminate, our operations, or to seek to merge with or to be acquired by another company. We anticipate that we will need to raise substantial amounts of money to fund a variety of future activities integral to the development of our business, which may include but are not limited to the following: • To conduct research and development to successfully develop our RNAi technologies, • To obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, • To file and prosecute patent applications and to defend and assess patents to protect our technologies, • To retain qualified employees, particularly in light of intense competition for qualified scientists, • To manufacture products ourselves or through third parties, • To market our products, either through building our own sales and distribution capabilities or relying on third parties, and • To acquire new technologies, licenses, products or companies. We cannot assure you that any financing needed for the development of our business will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we cannot obtain additional financing in the future, our operations may be restricted and we may ultimately be unable to continue to develop and potentially commercialize our product candidates. We expect to continue to incur significant research and development expenses, which may make it difficult for us to attain profitability, and may lead to uncertainty about or as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Substantial funds were expended to develop our RNAi technologies, and additional substantial funds will be required for further research and development, including pre-clinical testing and clinical trials of any product candidates, and to manufacture and market any products that are approved for commercial sale. Because the successful development of our products is uncertain, we are unable to precisely estimate the actual funds we will require to develop and potentially commercialize them. In addition, we may not be able to generate enough revenue, even if we are able to commercialize any of our product candidates, to become profitable. In the event that we are unable to achieve or sustain profitability or to secure additional financing, we may not be able to meet our obligations as they come due, raising substantial doubts as to our ability to 28 Table of Contents continue as a going concern. Any such inability to continue as a going concern may result in our common stock holders losing their entire investment. There is no guaranty that we will become profitable or secure additional financing. Our financial statements contemplate that we will continue as a going concern and do not contain any adjustments that might result if we were unable to continue as a going concern. Changes in our operating plans, our existing and anticipated working capital needs, the acceleration or modification of our expansion plans, increased expenses, potential acquisitions or other events will all affect our ability to continue as a going concern. Future financing may be obtained through, and future development efforts may be paid for by, the issuance of debt or equity, which may have an adverse effect on our stockholders or may otherwise adversely affect our business. If we raise funds through the issuance of debt or equity, any debt securities or preferred stock issued will have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock in the event of a liquidation. In such event, there is a possibility that once all senior claims are settled, there may be no assets remaining to pay out to the holders of common stock. In addition, if we raise funds through the issuance of additional equity, whether through private placements or additional public offerings, such an issuance would dilute your ownership in us. The terms of debt securities may also impose restrictions on our operations, which may include limiting our ability to incur additional indebtedness, to pay dividends on or repurchase our capital stock, or to make certain acquisitions or investments. In addition, we may be subject to covenants requiring us to satisfy certain financial tests and ratios, and our ability to satisfy such covenants may be affected by events outside of our control. You may have difficulty evaluating our business, because we have limited history and our historical financial information may not be representative of our future results. The historical financial information included in this annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 does not necessarily reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows that we would have achieved as a separate company during the periods presented or those that we will achieve in the future. Prior to the contribution of our RNAi assets from CytRx, our RNAi research and development activities were conducted by CytRx as part of its broader operations, rather than as an independent division or subsidiary, and were primarily conducted through sponsored research arrangements rather than through internal activities. CytRx also performed various corporate functions relating to our business, as discussed above. Our historical financial information reflects allocations of indirect expenses from CytRx for these and similar functions. We believe that these allocations are comparable to the expenses we would have incurred had we operated as a separate company, although we may incur higher expenses as a separate company. We have limited operating experience and may not be able to effectively operate. We are a discovery-stage company with limited operating history. We will focus solely on developing and, if we obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, commercializing therapeutic products based upon RNAi technologies, and there is no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement our business plan. While our management collectively possesses substantial business experience, there is no assurance that we will be able to manage our business effectively, or that we will be able to identify, hire and retain any needed additional management or scientific personnel to develop and implement our product development plans, obtain third-party contracts or any needed financing, or achieve the other components of our business plan. The obligations associated with being an independent public company require significant resources and management attention. As a publicly traded company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In addition, 29 Table of Contents the Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports. Our failure to prepare and disclose this information in a timely manner could subject us to penalties under federal securities laws, expose us to lawsuits and restrict our ability to access financing. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we, among other things, establish and maintain effective internal controls and procedures for financial reporting. From time to time we evaluate our existing internal controls in light of the standards adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. It is possible that we or our independent registered public accounting firm may identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. Any failure or difficulties in implementing and maintaining these controls could cause us to fail to meet the periodic reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our failure to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 on a timely basis could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business and our common stock. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including the following factors: • Announcements of regulatory developments or technological innovations by us or our competitors, • Changes in our relationship with our licensors and other strategic partners, • Changes in our ownership or other relationships with CytRx, • Our quarterly operating results, • Developments in patent or other technology ownership rights, • Public concern regarding the safety of our products, • Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us and, in the case of equity financings, may result in dilution to our stock holders, • Government regulation of drug pricing, and • General changes in the economy, the financial markets or the pharmaceutical or biotechnology industries. In addition, factors beyond our control may also have an impact on the price of our stock. For example, to the extent that other large companies within our industry experience declines in their stock price, our stock price may decline as well. In addition, when the market price of a company’s common stock drops significantly, stockholders often institute securities class action lawsuits against the company. A lawsuit against us could cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of our management and other resources. Sales of our shares by CytRx could adversely affect our stock price. As of March 30, 2010, CytRx owned 5,093,881 shares of our common stock, or approximately 28% of our outstanding shares. The availability of our shares held by CytRx for public resale on the open market, as well as any actual sales of these shares, could adversely affect the market price of our shares. We have granted CytRx preemptive rights to acquire shares that we may sell in the future, which may impair our ability to raise funds. Under an agreement between us, CytRx and our founding stockholders, with some exceptions, CytRx has preemptive rights to acquire a portion of any new securities sold or issued by us so as to maintain its 30 Table of Contents percentage ownership of us at the time of any such sale and issuance, which is currently approximately 28% of our outstanding shares. The exercise by CytRx of its preemptive rights may impair our ability to raise funds, or adversely affect the terms on which we are able to raise funds, as we may not be able to offer to new investors the quantity of our stock that they may desire to purchase. CytRx’s ownership of our common stock could delay or prevent a change in corporate control. CytRx owns approximately 28% of our common stock, and has preemptive rights, as described above, to maintain its percentage ownership. CytRx has agreed with UMMS, us and our other founding stockholders to vote its shares of our common stock so that a majority of the members of our board of directors are not affiliated with CytRx. However, by virtue of its stock ownership, CytRx may be able to significantly influence the outcome of matters required to be submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including any proposed amendments to our certificate of incorporation and approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may adversely affect the market price of our common stock by: • Delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company, • Impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving our company, or • Discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. CytRx could unilaterally effect a change of control of our company by selling or disposing of our shares owned by it. If CytRx were to sell or otherwise dispose of all or a significant portion of our shares owned by it to a single buyer or group of affiliated buyers, it could effect a potential change of control of our company without the advice or participation by our board of directors or other stockholders, since transferees of the shares owned by CytRx will not be bound by CytRx’s agreements with UMMS, us and our other founding stockholders with respect to voting such shares. Anti-takeover provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and provisions of Delaware law could delay or prevent a change of control that you may favor. Anti-takeover provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and provisions of Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or other change of control that stockholders may consider favorable, or may impede the ability of the holders of our common stock to change our management. These provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, among other things: • Divide our board of directors into three classes, with members of each class to be elected for staggered three-year terms, • Limit the right of stockholders to remove directors, • Regulate how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at annual meetings of stockholders, and • Authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock in one or more series, without stockholder approval. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law provides that, subject to limited exceptions, persons that acquire, or are affiliated with a person that acquires, more than 15% of the outstanding voting stock of a Delaware corporation such as our company shall not engage in any business combination with that corporation, including by merger, consolidation or acquisitions of additional shares for a three-year period following the date on which that person or its affiliate crosses the 15% stock ownership threshold. Section 203 could operate to delay or prevent a change of control of our company. 31 Table of Contents We may acquire other businesses or form joint ventures that may be unsuccessful and could adversely dilute your ownership of our company. As part of our business strategy, we may pursue future acquisitions of other complementary businesses and technology licensing arrangements. We also may pursue strategic alliances. We have no experience with respect to acquiring other companies and limited experience with respect to the formation of collaborations, strategic alliances and joint ventures. If we were to make any acquisitions, we may not be able to integrate these acquisitions successfully into our existing business and we could assume unknown or contingent liabilities. We also could experience adverse effects on our reported results of operations from acquisition related charges, amortization of acquired technology and other intangibles and impairment charges relating to write-offs of goodwill and other intangible assets from time to time following the acquisition. Integration of an acquired company also may require management resources that otherwise would be available for ongoing development of our existing business. We may not identify or complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, technology license or strategic alliance. To finance acquisitions, we may choose to issue shares of our common stock as consideration, which would dilute your ownership interest in us. Alternatively, it may be necessary for us to raise additional funds through public or private financings. Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us and, in the case of equity financings, may result in dilution to our stockholders. Any future acquisitions by us also could result in large and immediate write-offs, the incurrence of contingent liabilities or amortization of expenses related to acquired intangible assets, any of which could harm our operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 