Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Other events that we do not currently anticipate or that we currently deem immaterial also may affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.Risks Related to Our BusinessWe currently generate the majority of our revenue from a concentrated base of customers, including Windstream Corporation. Unless we can substantially expand our sales to other existing or new customers, we will not be able to grow our revenue.Historically, we have been significantly dependent on Windstream Corporation, or Windstream, with Windstream accounting for approximately 39%, 45% and 37% of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011. Revenue from Windstream was $19.0 million, or 50% of total revenue, in the third quarter of 2013 but declined to $2.3 million, or 11% of total revenue in the fourth quarter of 2013. As a result of this significant decline, our revenue in the fourth quarter of 2013 was lower than anticipated. While we expect our sales to Windstream to decline in future periods, we nonetheless anticipate that a large portion of our revenue will continue to depend on sales to Windstream. In addition, given the episodic nature of capital expenditures associated with network deployments, we may derive a substantial amount of our revenue from a limited number of customers in any particular future period. As a result, unless we can substantially expand our sales to other existing or new customers, we will not be able to grow our revenue.Sales of our solutions to our customers, including Windstream, are made pursuant to purchase orders, and not pursuant to long-term, committed-volume purchase contracts. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to sustain or increase sales to any current or future customer from period to period, or that we will be able to offset the discontinuation of concentrated purchases by these customers with purchases by new or existing customers. As a consequence of our customer concentration and the frequently concentrated nature of our customers’ purchases, our quarterly revenue and operating results may fluctuate substantially from quarter to quarter and are difficult to predict. The loss of, or a significant delay or reduction in purchases by, any of our significant customers could adversely affect our business and operating results.Our business depends on the capital spending patterns and financial capabilities of our service provider customers, and any decrease or delay in their capital spending may adversely affect our business and operating results.Our revenue to date has been derived primarily from our service provider customers. Demand for our solutions depends on the amount and timing of capital spending by these customers as they construct, expand and upgrade their networks. The global economic downturn and uncertainty has contributed to a slowdown in spending in many industries, including by telecommunications service providers. In response to any future challenging economic conditions and decreased availability of capital, spending for network infrastructure projects could be further delayed or cancelled. In addition, capital spending is cyclical in our industry and sporadic among individual service providers, and can change on short notice. As a result, we may not have visibility into changes in spending behavior until near the end of a given quarter. Further, infrastructure improvements may be further delayed or prevented by a variety of factors, including cost, regulatory obstacles, consolidation in the industry, lack of consumer demand and alternative technologies for service delivery. Any reductions in capital expenditures by service providers could adversely affect our operating results and future growth.Our revenue may become more volatile due to changes in historical seasonal patterns. We have experienced in the past, and may continue to experience, seasonal fluctuations in our revenue as a result of our customers’ spending patterns. For example, in years prior to 2013, we experienced an increase in business activity as we approach December, as some of our customers accelerated spending to use remaining capital budgets. Similarly, we generally expect a decrease in business activity in our first quarter as some of our customers delay spending until they finalize their capital budgets and project initiatives become clarified. However, these historical patterns may not recur in any given period. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2013, we experienced a decrease in business activity as some of our customers had largely depleted their 2013 capital budgets. In addition, from time to time, customers may place large orders that may significantly affect sequential trends. These items may result in greater volatility of our results in any given period. Furthermore, we may experience lower gross margin in a particular period as a result of large deployments by our customers since these deployments typically include a significant proportion of lower margin Z-Series chassis. For example, gross margin decreased by 3.4%, from 43.4% to 40.0%, for the three months ended September 30, 2013 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2013. This sequential decrease in gross margin was influenced by initial deployments into new customers. 15Table of ContentsAs a consequence of this seasonality, large customer purchases and the effect of large initial deployments by our customers, our quarterly revenue and operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and are difficult to estimate.We have a limited operating history, which makes it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects.We were incorporated in 2006, and began selling our solutions and generating revenue in 2009. Our limited operating history makes financial forecasting and evaluation of our business difficult. Moreover, we compete in markets characterized by rapid technological change, changing customer needs, evolving industry standards and frequent introductions of new products and services. We have experienced rapid growth since our inception, and we continue to increase the breadth and scope of our solutions and, correspondingly, the breadth and scope of our operations. For example, in December 2012, we released for general availability our Blue Planet carrier-grade software-defined networking platform. We have limited historical data and have had a relatively limited time period in which to implement and evaluate our business strategies as compared to companies with longer operating histories. As a result, it is difficult to forecast our future revenue growth, if any, and to plan our operating expenses appropriately, which in turn makes it difficult to predict our future operating results. In the course of our development efforts, we may experience design, manufacturing, marketing and other difficulties that could delay or prevent the development, introduction or marketing of new solutions, services and enhancements. If we are not successful, we could experience lower sales, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition.We have a history of losses, and we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to achieve or maintain profitability.Since our inception, we have incurred net losses in each quarterly and annual period and, as of December 31, 2013 we had an accumulated deficit of $127.3 million. Although our revenue has grown rapidly in recent periods, our revenue growth is likely to slow and our revenue may decline in future periods as a result of a number of factors, including but not limited to, uncertain demand for our solutions, increasing competition or our failure to capitalize on potential growth opportunities. Accordingly, you should not rely on our revenue growth in any prior quarterly or annual period as an indicator of our future performance. In addition, we anticipate that our operating expenses will increase substantially for the foreseeable future as we continue to expend substantial financial resources on sales and marketing, including domestic and international expansion efforts, product and feature development, technology infrastructure, additional headcount and general administration. These efforts may prove more expensive than we currently anticipate, and we may not succeed in increasing our revenue sufficiently, or at all, to offset these higher expenses. To the extent that our existing cash, cash equivalents and operating cash flows, are insufficient to fund our future activities and requirements, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financing. If we issue equity securities in order to raise additional funds, substantial dilution to existing stockholders may occur. If we raise cash through the issuance of additional indebtedness, we may be subject to additional contractual restrictions on our business. Additionally, we cannot assure you that we will be able to raise additional funds on favorable terms, or at all. If we are unable to maintain adequate revenue growth, improve our gross margin or manage our expenses, we may continue to incur significant losses in the future and may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability.We currently generate the majority of our revenue from the sale of our Z-Series platforms and therefore a decrease in purchases of these platforms would adversely affect our revenue and our operating results.Historically, our Z-Series platforms have accounted for substantially all of our revenue, and we expect to continue to derive a substantial majority of our revenue from sales of these platforms in the near term. As a result, our future growth and financial performance will depend heavily on our ability to continue to sell existing, and to develop and sell enhanced, versions of our Z-Series platforms, both to existing and new customers. If current market demand for these products diminishes, or we fail to deliver product enhancements, new releases or new products that customers want, overall demand for our solutions and related services would decrease, and our operating results would be harmed.If the software-defined networking market does not develop as we anticipate, and if we are unable to increase market awareness of our company and our solutions within that market, demand for our solutions may not grow, and our future results would be adversely affected.Fundamental to our solution is our Blue Planet software-defined networking platform. As a result, our long-term success will depend to a significant extent on potential customers recognizing the benefits of our solutions over legacy systems and products, and the willingness of service providers, high- performance data centers and other network operators to increase their use of software-defined networking solutions in their networks. The market for SDNs is at an early stage with a small installed base and limited market adoption, and it is difficult to predict important trends, including the potential growth, if any, of this market.16Table of ContentsIf the market for software-defined networking solutions does not evolve in the way we anticipate or if customers do not recognize the benefits of our solutions, we likely would not be able to increase sales of our hardware and software solutions. In such event, our revenue would not grow, or would decline, and our operating results would be harmed. To date, some network operators have been reluctant to switch to SDNs because they have invested substantial resources to maintain and integrate legacy solutions into their networks. These network operators may continue allocating their network budgets to the maintenance and upgrading of their legacy systems and products and therefore not adopt our SDN solutions in addition to or as a replacement for these legacy systems and products.Even if the market for SDN solutions develops as we anticipate, market awareness of our SDN solutions will be essential to our long-term growth. We cannot assure you that network operators will accept the value proposition that we believe our solutions provide. If we are not successful in creating market awareness of our company and our full suite of SDN solutions, our business, financial condition and operating results would be adversely affected.We recently launched a new software-defined networking platform, Blue Planet, and if this or other new solutions we develop face challenges for market acceptance, our revenue and operating results would be adversely affected.We released Blue Planet in December 2012. Currently, our Blue Planet offering has an unproven revenue model and has accounted for an immaterial amount of our revenue. If network operators do not perceive the benefits of Blue Planet, the market for Blue Planet may not develop or may develop more slowly than we expect, either of which would adversely affect our revenue growth prospects. The widespread acceptance of Blue Planet will require not only the recognition and adoption of software- defined networking as a whole over legacy systems and products, but also the deployment of Blue Planet as a standard solution for our current and potential customers to manage their SDNs. We also face the risk of having a limited time to market in order to establish Blue Planet over any alternative solutions or technologies that network operators utilize for SDNs and other network management. In addition, we have limited experience in pricing Blue Planet separately from our Z-Series platforms, which could result in underpricing that adversely affects our expected financial performance, or overpricing that inhibits our customers’ acceptance of Blue Planet. Even if the initial development and commercial introduction of Blue Planet is successful, we cannot assure you that it will achieve widespread market acceptance or that any market acceptance will be sustainable over the longer term. If Blue Planet does not gain market acceptance at a sufficient rate of growth, our business and operating results would be adversely affected.We operate in highly competitive markets, and competitive pressures from existing and new companies may adversely affect our business, operating results and market share.The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and characterized by rapidly changing customer needs and evolving industry standards. We expect competition to intensify in the future as existing competitors and new market entrants introduce new products or enhance existing products. Our business will be adversely affected if we are unable to compete effectively to meet the demand for existing products as well as innovate to bring new products and solutions to market.We compete either directly or indirectly with large networking and optical companies, such as Alcatel-Lucent SA, Ciena Corporation, Cisco Systems, Inc., Fujitsu Limited, Huawei Technologies Co. Limited and Juniper Networks, Inc., and specialized technology providers that offer solutions that address a portion of the issues that we address. In addition, we seek to replace legacy network control tools and processes that network operators have either already purchased or internally developed, and potential customers may be reluctant to adopt a solution that replaces or changes existing systems and processes in which they have made significant investments. In the future, in selling Blue Planet we may also compete with companies that are focused on providing virtualization software solutions for other end-markets as they may try to adapt their solutions to meet the needs of network operators or compete with networking companies that develop or acquire SDN solutions. Some of our competitors have made, or may make, acquisitions of businesses that may allow them to offer solutions that are more directly competitive and comprehensive than those they currently offer.17Table of ContentsWe expect competition and competitive pressure, from both new and existing competitors, to increase in the future. Additionally, many of our competitors have greater name recognition, longer operating histories, well-established relationships with customers or channel partners in our markets and substantially greater financial, technical, personnel and other resources than we have. Our competitors may be able to anticipate, influence or adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products and services, initiate or withstand substantial price competition, take advantage of acquisitions or other opportunities more readily and develop and expand their product and service offerings more quickly than we can. In addition, competitors with substantially larger installed customer bases may leverage their relationships and incorporate functionality into their existing products in a manner that may discourage customers from purchasing our solutions. These larger competitors may also have more diversified businesses that allow them to better withstand significant reductions in capital spending by customers. Moreover, potential customers may also prefer to purchase from their existing providers rather than a new provider, regardless of product performance or features, because our solutions may require additional investment of time and funds to install the solutions and to train operations personnel. In addition, some of our competitors may offer substantial discounts, rebates or financing to win new or retain existing customers, or may bundle different products and services together in a package to their customers where they include products and services that directly compete with our solutions at very low prices or even for free. If we are unable to win customers, or if we are forced to reduce prices in order to secure customers, our business and operating results may be adversely affected.During the year ended December 31, 2013 we provided lease arrangements for one customer. We classify these arrangements as lease receivables, which represent sales-type leases resulting from the sale of our products. Such requests for lease arrangements may increase in the future. We believe lease arrangements may be a competitive factor in obtaining business and if we are unable to extend or facilitate such arrangements, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted.Our business and operations have experienced rapid growth in recent periods, and if we are unable to effectively manage this growth and expansion, or if our business does not continue to grow as we expect, including with respect to our recruitment of qualified personnel, our operating results may suffer.We have experienced rapid growth and have significantly expanded our operations since inception, which has placed a strain on our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. Our success will depend in part upon our ability to manage our growth effectively.We believe that our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to identify, attract and retain highly qualified and skilled personnel, particularly engineers and sales personnel. Our employee headcount has increased from 39 as of December 31, 2008 to 315 as of December 31, 2013. Competition for skilled personnel is intense, particularly for those specializing in network and software engineering and sales, and those located in the San Francisco Bay Area. In addition, our headquarters location in Petaluma, in the northern part of the San Francisco Bay Area, may make it more difficult to attract qualified personnel that live in other parts of the Bay Area. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in attracting qualified personnel, or that newly hired personnel will function effectively, both individually and as a group. Our ability to manage our operations and growth will further require us to refine our operational, financial and management controls, human resource policies, and reporting systems and procedures. If we fail to efficiently expand our sales force, engineering, operations, IT or financial systems, or otherwise manage our growth, our costs and expenses may increase more than we plan and we may lose the ability to close customer opportunities, enhance our existing products and services, satisfy customer requirements, respond to competitive pressures or otherwise execute our business plan. These additional investments will increase our operating costs, which will make it more difficult for us to offset any future revenue shortfalls in the short term by reducing expenses. Moreover, if we fail to scale our operations successfully, our business and operating results could be adversely affected.Our revenue, gross margin and other operating results may fluctuate significantly and be unpredictable, which makes our future operating results difficult to predict and could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline.Our revenue and operating results may fluctuate from period to period due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, which makes it difficult for us to predict our future operating results. The timing and size of sales of our Z-Series platforms and other solutions have been highly variable and difficult to predict, leading to uncertainty and limiting our ability to accurately forecast revenue and resulting in significant fluctuations in revenue from period to period. This variability has been compounded by our customer concentration and the frequently concentrated nature of our customers’ purchases, which are made pursuant to purchase orders and not pursuant to long-term committed-volume purchase contracts. In addition to, or as elaborated in, other risks listed in this Risk Factors section, factors that may affect our operating results include:•the timing of orders from our customers and channel partners, including by our largest customer, Windstream;18Table of Contents•fluctuations in demand for our solutions;•the capital spending patterns of network operators and any decrease or delay in capital spending by network operators due to economic, regulatory or other reasons;•the inherent complexity, seasonality, length and associated unpredictability of our sales cycles for our solutions;•changing market conditions, including network operator consolidation;•changes in the competitive dynamics of our markets, new market entrants and any related discounting, bundling or financing of products or services;•our ability to expand our international sales and marketing operations;•our ability to control costs such as the costs of the components for our Z-Series platforms;•the ability of our contract manufacturer and component suppliers to timely meet our manufacturing and supply needs at acceptable prices, or at all;•the timing and execution of product transitions, new product introductions or product upgrades by us or our competitors;•our ability to timely and effectively develop, introduce and gain market acceptance for new solutions, products, technologies and services, such as Blue Planet, and anticipate future market demands that meet our customers’ requirements;•our ability to successfully expand the Z-Series, Blue Planet and professional service solutions we sell to existing customers;•the interoperability of our solutions with service providers’ networks, and technical challenges in network operators’ overall networks, unrelated to our solutions, which could delay adoption and installation of our solutions;•decisions by potential customers to purchase alternative products and services from other providers and their willingness to deploy our solutions;•any decision by us to increase or decrease operating expenses in response to changes in the marketplace or perceived marketplace opportunities;•our ability to derive benefits from our investments in sales, marketing, engineering or other activities;•our ability to build and manage our channel partner and distribution networks, and the effectiveness of any changes we make to our distribution model; and•general economic conditions, both domestically and abroad.Any one of the factors above or the cumulative effect of the factors above may result in significant fluctuations in our operating results from period to period. This variability and unpredictability could result in our failure to meet our internal operating plan or the expectations of securities analysts or investors for any period. If we fail to meet such expectations for these or any other reasons, the market price of our common stock could fall substantially and we could face costly lawsuits, including securities class action litigation.We operate in a rapidly evolving market and if we are unable to develop and introduce new solutions or make enhancements to existing solutions that successfully respond to emerging technological trends and achieve market acceptance, our revenue and growth prospects would likely be adversely affected.Our market is characterized by rapidly changing technology, changing customer needs, evolving industry standards and frequent introductions of new products and services. Our future success will depend significantly on our ability to effectively anticipate and timely adapt to such changes, and to develop and offer, on a timely and cost-effective basis, hardware and software solutions with features that meet changing customer demands, technology trends and industry standards. Our solutions have been developed to rely upon open standards for integration and functionality with legacy networks and third-party vendor network equipment and applications, and we cannot assure you that these standards will continue to receive market acceptance. Additionally, such open standard design could make it easier for competitors to more quickly and inexpensively develop and offer their own products and services based on the same technology. If our competitors introduce new products and services that compete with ours, we may be required to reposition our solutions or introduce new solutions in response to such competitive pressure. If we fail to develop new products or product enhancements, or our customers or potential customers do not perceive our solutions to have compelling advantages, our business, revenue and growth prospects would be adversely affected.We intend to continue making significant investments in further developing our Blue Planet and Z-Series platforms and enhancing the functionality of our existing solutions. Developing our solutions is expensive, complex and involves uncertainties. We intend to continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. However, we may not have sufficient resources to successfully manage these hardware and software development cycles, and these investments may take several years to generate positive returns, if ever.19Table of ContentsThe future growth of our business depends, in significant part, on increasing our international sales, and even if we are successful in expanding internationally, our business will be susceptible to risks associated with international operations.We currently generate substantially all of our sales from customers in the United States, and only in 2012 did we significantly begin marketing, selling and supporting our solutions internationally, primarily through channel partners. We have limited experience managing the sales, support and administrative aspects of a worldwide operation. The future growth of our business depends, in significant part, on increasing our international sales. We may not be successful in our efforts to expand our international operations, including as a result of not being able to increase or maintain international market demand for our solutions, and entry into additional international markets will require significant management attention and financial resources. Our failure to successfully grow internationally could limit the future growth of our business and, consequently, affect our business, operating results and financial condition.In the course of expanding our international operations and operating overseas, we will be subject to a variety of risks, directly and indirectly through our channel partners, including:•longer than expected sales cycles;•international trade costs and restrictions, including trade laws, tariffs, export quotas, custom duties or other trade restrictions, affecting our sales;•treatment of revenue from international sources and changes to tax codes, including being subject to foreign tax laws and responsibility for paying withholding income or other taxes in foreign jurisdictions;•compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, including employment, tax, privacy, data protection, communications and Internet laws and regulations, and the risks and costs of non-compliance;•compliance with U.S. laws and regulations applicable to foreign operations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, import and export control laws, tariffs, trade barriers, economic sanctions and other regulatory limitations on our ability to sell our solutions in certain foreign markets, and the risks and costs of non-compliance; challenges inherent in efficiently managing an increased number of employees over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, policies, compensation and benefits and compliance programs;•difficulties in and the potentially high costs of staffing foreign operations;•difficulties in enforcing contracts, longer accounts receivable payment cycles and the potential corresponding adverse impact on our days sales outstanding;•the imperative to upgrade our solutions to meet more stringent performance criteria or adapt our solutions to meet the standards of one or more other countries;•the risk of change in political or economic conditions for foreign countries, and the potential for political unrest, acts of terrorism, hostilities or war;•localization of products and services, including translation into foreign languages and associated expenses;•differing laws and business practices, which may favor local competitors;•foreign currency fluctuations and controls; and•limited or unfavorable intellectual property protection in foreign jurisdictions.Each of these risks could have an adverse effect on our overall business, operating results and financial condition.We engage channel partners to promote, sell, install and support our solutions internationally, and we intend to rapidly expand our international channel partner network. Any failure to effectively develop and manage this distribution channel could adversely affect our business, operating results and market share.We engage channel partners who provide sales and support services for our solutions, and we are relying on the rapid expansion of our channel partner network to pursue our international expansion efforts. If we do not properly train our channel partners to sell, install and service our solutions, or if a new channel partner is not able to execute on our sales strategy, our business, financial condition and operating results may suffer. The loss of a key channel partner or the failure of a channel partner to provide adequate customer service could have a negative effect on customer satisfaction and could cause harm to our business. Our use of channel partners and other third-party support partners, and the associated risks, are likely to increase as we seek to expand our international sales. Generally, our channel partners do not have long-term contractual commitments or exclusivity to us. We also compete with other network systems providers for our channel partners’ business as many of our channel partners market competing products. If a channel partner promotes a competitor’s products to the detriment of our solutions or otherwise fails to market our solutions effectively, we would lose market share.20Table of ContentsOur sales cycles can be long and unpredictable, and our sales efforts require considerable investment of time and expense. As a result, our sales and revenue are difficult to predict and may vary substantially from period to period, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly.Our sales process entails planning discussions with prospective customers, analyzing their existing networks and identifying how these potential customers can leverage our solutions within their networks. The sales cycle for a new customer deployment, from the time of prospect qualification to the completion of the first sale, may span multiple quarters. The sales cycles with larger carriers and potential customers in international markets can be even longer. We spend substantial time, effort and money in our sales efforts without any assurance that our efforts will produce any sales of our solutions. If we invest substantial resources pursuing unsuccessful sales opportunities, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. In addition, purchases by network operators of our solutions are subject to budget constraints, multiple approvals and unplanned administrative, processing and other delays. If sales expected from a specific customer for a particular quarter are not realized in that quarter, or at all, we may not achieve our revenue expectations.We do not have long-term, committed-volume purchase contracts with our customers for our Z-Series platforms, and therefore have no guarantee of future revenue from any customer, which may cause our operating results to be adversely affected.Sales of our Z-Series platforms are made pursuant to purchase orders, and we have not entered into long-term, committed-volume purchase contracts with our customers, including our largest customer, Windstream. As a result, any of our customers may cease to purchase our hardware solutions at any time. In addition, our customers may attempt to renegotiate their terms of purchase, including price and quantity, or may delay or cancel already submitted purchase orders. If any of our customers stop purchasing our hardware solutions for any reason, or purchase fewer solutions, our operating results and financial condition would be harmed.We currently rely upon a single contract manufacturer to manufacture our hardware solutions, and if we encounter problems with the contract manufacturer, our operations could be disrupted, which would adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and customer relationships.We contract with Flextronics International, Ltd., or Flextronics, as the sole manufacturer of all of our Z-Series platforms. Our reliance on Flextronics makes us vulnerable to possible capacity constraints and reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields and costs. We have limited direct control over the quality and control systems of Flextronics, and therefore may not be able to ensure levels of quality suitable for our customers. The revenue that Flextronics generates from our orders represents a very small percentage of its revenue. As a result, fulfilling our orders may not be considered a priority by Flextronics. If Flextronics were unable or unwilling to continue manufacturing our Z-Series platforms in required volumes and at high quality levels, or if Flextronics significantly increased our costs to have them manufacture our products, we would have to identify, qualify and select an acceptable alternative contract manufacturer. Such alternatives may not be available to us when needed, may take a significant amount of time to contract with and establish manufacturing or supply relationships, and may not be in a position to timely satisfy our production requirements at commercially reasonable prices and quality. Any significant interruption in manufacturing would require us to reduce the amount of Z-Series platforms available to our customers, which in turn would reduce our revenue and adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and customer relationships.21Table of ContentsIf we fail to accurately forecast our manufacturing requirements or manage our inventory with our contract manufacturer, we could incur additional costs, lose revenue and harm our business, operating results, financial condition and customer relationships.The suppliers of the components used in our Z-Series platforms deliver the components directly to our contract manufacturer, Flextronics, but we bear the inventory risk under our arrangements with Flextronics. As of December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012 we had commitments to Flextronics totaling $7.9 million and $7.1 million. Lead times for the materials and components that we order through Flextronics vary significantly and depend on numerous factors, including the specific supplier, contract terms and market demand for a component at a given time. The lead times for certain key materials and components could be lengthy depending on overall market demand, requiring us or Flextronics to order materials and components several months in advance of their use in manufacturing our products. If we overestimate our production requirements, Flextronics may purchase excess components and build excess inventory. If Flextronics purchases excess components or builds excess products, we could be required to pay for these excess components or products and recognize related inventory write-down costs. We also are required to reimburse Flextronics if our inventory is rendered obsolete for any reason. If we experience inventory write-downs associated with excess or obsolete inventory in any significant amount, this would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Conversely, if we underestimate our product requirements, our contract manufacturer may maintain inadequate component inventory and be unable to manufacture our Z-Series platforms in sufficient quantities to timely meet customer demand. Any shortfall in available products could result in delays or cancellation of orders by our customers, which could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and customer relationships.Certain component parts used in the manufacture of our products are sourced from single or limited source suppliers. If we are unable to source these components on a timely basis, we will not be able to meet our customers’ product delivery requirements, which could adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and customer relationships.We depend on certain sole-source and limited source suppliers for key components that Flextronics, our contract manufacturer, uses in the manufacture of our Z-Series platforms. Any of the sole-source and limited source suppliers upon whom we rely could stop producing our components, cease operations or be acquired by, or enter into exclusive arrangements with, our competitors. In particular, our reliance on Broadcom Corporation for certain key semiconductors used in our hardware solutions makes us vulnerable to shortages or pricing pressure on these important components. Neither we nor Flextronics generally has long-term supply agreements with component suppliers, and our purchase volumes currently may be considered too low for us to be a priority customer by many of such suppliers. As such, we cannot be guaranteed a continuous source of, or favorable pricing for, components from any of these suppliers. Furthermore, patent infringement lawsuits between semiconductor companies could have an adverse effect on our ability to acquire components that are sole sourced and integrated into our family of Z-Series platforms, leading to production delays and additional engineering costs, potentially harming our business and customer relationships. Any such interruption or delay may force us to seek similar components or products from alternative sources, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Switching suppliers may require that we redesign our Z-Series platforms to accommodate new components, and to re-qualify these solutions, which would be costly and time-consuming. Any interruption in the supply of sole- source or limited source components for our solutions would adversely affect our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to our customers and could result in lost revenue or higher expenses, any of which would harm our business, operating results, financial condition and customer relationships.Our future success depends in part on revenue from Blue Planet and our other services, and because we generally recognize revenue from Blue Planet over the term of the relevant contractual period, downturns or upturns in sales will not likely be reflected in full in our operating results for the period in which such downturns or upturns occur.Sales of new or renewed term licenses, support and maintenance contracts, especially with respect to Blue Planet, may decline and fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including our customers’ level of satisfaction with our solutions, the prices of our solutions, the prices of products and services offered by our competitors and reductions in our customers’ spending levels. If our sales of new or renewals of term licenses, support and maintenance contracts decline, our revenue and revenue growth will decline and our business will suffer. In addition, we generally recognize Blue Planet and service contract revenue ratably over the term of the relevant contractual period. As a result, much of the term license and service revenue that we report each quarter is the recognition of deferred revenue from term licenses and service contracts entered into during previous quarters. Accordingly, any decline in new or renewed term licenses or service contracts in any one quarter will not be fully reflected in revenue in that quarter but will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. In addition, it may be difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, as Blue Planet revenue is generally recognized over the term of the contract.22Table of ContentsOur solutions are highly complex and may contain undetected hardware errors or software bugs, which could harm our reputation and increase our warranty obligations and service costs.Our solutions are highly technical and, when deployed, are critical to the operation of our customers’ networks. Our solutions have from time to time contained and may in the future contain undetected errors, bugs, defects or security vulnerabilities. Some errors in our solutions may only be discovered after a solution has been deployed and used by customers, and may in some cases only be detected under certain circumstances or after extended use. Any errors, bugs, defects or security vulnerabilities discovered in our solutions after commercial release could result in loss of our revenue or delay in revenue recognition, loss of customer goodwill and customer relationships, harm to our reputation and increased service costs, any of which would adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Quality or performance problems related to our Z-Series platforms that are covered under warranty could require us to repair or replace defective products at no additional cost to the customer. For example, we have recently experienced higher than expected failure rates with certain Z-Series line cards used by a number of our customers that were manufactured between 2010 and the spring of 2012, and have identified a line card power supply as the source of the failures. We are, in certain circumstances, undertaking a proactive warranty repair and replacement program for line cards we ultimately determine to be at risk of early failure. We believe that the costs will not be material and that our warranty reserve is sufficient to cover these costs. Should we determine, however, that a systemic defect exists, we may incur additional warranty-related expenses which could adversely affect our gross margins and operating results. If we experience quality or performance problems in the future related to our Z-Series platforms that are covered under warranty, we could be required to repair or replace defective products, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and results of operations In addition, any errors discovered in Blue Planet could cause customers and potential customers to abandon or never adopt Blue Planet, which could adversely affect our ability to grow our business. Moreover, we could face claims for product liability, tort or breach of contract from our customers, or be required to indemnify our customers for damages and third-party claims for a variety of reasons. Any increased costs, liabilities and diversion of resources associated with a warranty or other claim related to errors or alleged errors in our solutions could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.Our solutions must interoperate with existing legacy and competitor software applications and hardware products found in our customers’ networks. If our solutions do not interoperate properly, future sales of our solutions could be negatively affected, which would harm our business.Our solutions must interoperate with our customers’ existing and planned networks, which often have varied and complex specifications, utilize multiple protocol standards, software applications and products from multiple vendors and may contain multiple generations of products that have been added over time. Our solutions must communicate, manage and analyze networks and the traffic across these networks, often across differing legacy protocols and technologies. As a result, we must continually ensure that our products interoperate properly with these existing and planned networks and network components, including legacy networks that operate on technology originally designed several decades ago. To meet these interoperability requirements, we continuously engage in development efforts that require substantial resources. If we fail to maintain compatibility with other software or equipment included in our customers’ existing and planned networks, we may incur significant warranty, support and repair costs, cause significant customer relations problems and divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts, and our business and operating results would be adversely affected. In addition, if our competitors, whose software or equipment incorporate these protocols and technologies, fail to make available to us on an ongoing basis the interfaces and other information we require to maintain the interoperability of our solutions with their software and equipment, our business and operating results would be adversely affected.If we fail to comply with evolving network industry technical requirements and standards, sales of our existing and future solutions would be adversely affected, which could adversely affect our operating results and growth prospects.The markets for our solutions are characterized by a significant number of standards, both domestic and international, which are evolving as new network technologies are deployed. Our solutions must comply with these standards in order to be widely marketable. In some cases and particularly in international markets, we may be required to obtain certifications or authorizations before our solutions can be introduced, marketed or sold in new markets or to new customers. In addition, our ability to expand our international operations and create international market demand for our solutions may be constrained by regulations or standards adopted by other countries that may require us to redesign our existing solutions or develop new products suitable for sale in those countries. We cannot assure you that we will be able to design our solutions to comply with evolving standards and regulations. The cost of complying with evolving standards and regulations, or our failure to obtain timely domestic or foreign regulatory approvals or certifications, may prevent us from selling our solutions where such standards or regulations apply, which could adversely affect our operating results and growth prospects.23Table of ContentsOur ability to sell our solutions is highly dependent on the quality of our support and service offerings, and our failure to offer high quality support and services would have an adverse effect on our business, reputation and operating results.Once our solutions are deployed within our customers’ networks, our customers depend on our support organization to quickly resolve any issues relating to those products. A high level of support is critical for the successful marketing and sale of our solutions. If we do not effectively assist our customers in deploying our solutions, succeed in helping them quickly resolve post-deployment issues or provide effective ongoing support, it could adversely affect our ability to sell our solutions to existing customers and harm our reputation with potential new customers, which would have an adverse effect on our business, reputation and operating results.Weakened global economic conditions may harm our industry, business, operating results and financial condition.Our overall performance depends in large part on global economic conditions, which may remain challenging for the foreseeable future. Global financial developments seemingly unrelated to us or the network industry may harm our business by negatively affecting the demand for networking equipment. The United States and Europe have been adversely affected in the recent past, and continue to face economic uncertainty. In addition, the growth of China’s economy has slowed in recent periods adding to concerns about global economic activity. These conditions affect the rate of spending on network services, could adversely affect our customers’ ability or willingness to purchase our solutions and could delay prospective customers’ purchasing decisions. In addition, a prolonged economic downturn could affect the viability of our current business strategy. All of these factors could reduce our revenue and harm our business, operating results and financial condition.Changes in government-sponsored programs, especially decreases in government funding, could affect the timing and buying patterns of certain of our customers, which would cause reduced sales of our solutions and fluctuations in our operating results.Over the past several years, some of our customers were Independent Operating Companies, or IOCs, and other telecommunications network providers that benefited from federal and state subsidies. Approximately 13%, 9% and 12% of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 was attributable to sales of our solutions to IOCs and other service providers that used government-supported loan programs or grants to fund purchases from us, such as those originating from the Rural Utility Service, or RUS, program administered by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, and broadband stimulus programs under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. We expect that reductions in or elimination of such programs are likely, especially given the recent U.S. federal government fiscal issues, and that these support or stimulus funds will not be available to IOCs in whole or in part, which could reduce the ability of IOCs to access capital and reduce our revenue opportunities for selling our solutions to these IOCs. To the extent that any of our customers have received grants or loans under these RUS and stimulus programs, but no longer have access to such assistance, they may substantially reduce or curtail future purchases of our solutions.Third parties may assert that we are infringing upon their intellectual property rights, which could harm our business, operating results, financial condition and growth prospects.There is considerable patent and other intellectual property development activity, and litigation related to intellectual property rights, in the technology industry in general and the networking industry in particular. From time to time, our competitors, other third-party developers of technology or non-practicing entities, commonly referred to as “patent trolls,” have and may claim that we are infringing upon their patent, trademark and other intellectual property rights. Regardless of the merit of any such claim, responding to such claims can be time consuming, divert management’s attention and resources and may cause us to incur significant expenses. We cannot assure you that we would be successful in defending against any such claims. In addition, patent applications in the United States and most other countries are confidential for a period of time before being published, so we cannot be certain that we were the first to conceive inventions covered by our patents or patent applications. Moreover, we cannot be certain that we are not infringing third parties’ patent or other intellectual property rights. An adverse outcome with respect to any intellectual property claim could invalidate our proprietary rights and/or force us to, among other things, do one or more of the following:•obtain from a third party claiming infringement a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all;•stop manufacturing, selling, or using our solutions that embody the asserted intellectual property and refund to customers all or a portion of the fees related to the purchase or license of such solutions;•pay substantial monetary damages; •indemnify our customers and/or commercial partners against third-party claims for intellectual property infringement pursuant to indemnification obligations under our contracts, generally without limit; or•expend significant resources to redesign our solutions that use the infringing technology and to develop or acquire non-infringing technology.24Table of ContentsAdditionally, if we offer employment to personnel employed or formerly employed by competitors, we may become subject to claims of unfair hiring practices and/or breaches of confidentiality related to the intellectual property of such competitors, and incur substantial costs in defending ourselves against these claims, regardless of their merits. Any of these actions could adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and growth prospects.If we are unable to successfully manage our use of “open source” software, our ability to sell our products and services could be harmed, which could result in competitive disadvantages, and subject us to possible litigation.We incorporate open source software code in our proprietary software that is part of both our Z-Series and Blue Planet platforms. Use of open source software can lead to greater risks than the use of proprietary or third-party commercial software since open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls with respect to origin, functionality or other features of the software. Some open source software licenses require users who distribute open source software as part of their products to publicly disclose all or part of the source code in their software and make any derivative works of the open source code generally available in source code form for limited fees or at no cost. Although we monitor our use of open source software, open source license terms may be ambiguous, and many of the risks associated with the use of open source software cannot be eliminated. If we were found to have inappropriately used open source software in our solutions, we may be required to release our proprietary source code, re-engineer our software, discontinue the sale of certain solutions in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis, or take other remedial action. Furthermore, if we fail to comply with applicable open source licenses, we may be subject to costly claims of intellectual property infringement or demands for the public release of proprietary source code. Any of the foregoing could harm our business and put us at a competitive disadvantage.If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position, ability to protect our proprietary technology and our brand could be harmed or we could be required to incur significant expense to enforce our rights.Our success depends to a significant degree on our ability to protect our core technology and intellectual property. We rely on a combination of intellectual property rights, including trade secret laws, copyrights, patents and trademarks, as well as customary contractual provisions. To date we have only three issued U.S. patents, and do not have any patents issued outside the United States. Moreover, our issued patents and the patent applications that we have filed may not cover important aspects of our technology, and may not be enforceable. We also license software from third parties for integration into our products, including open source software and other commercially available software. We generally control access to and use of our proprietary software and other confidential information through the use of internal and external controls, including contractual protections with employees, contractors, customers and partners, and our software is protected by U.S. and international copyright laws. We also incorporate certain generally available software programs into Blue Planet and our other software solutions pursuant to license agreements with third parties. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors.The steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property rights. We may initiate claims against third parties that we believe are infringing our intellectual property rights if we are unable to resolve matters satisfactorily through negotiation. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors could offer similar products, potentially harming our business. Our intellectual property rights may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. Any litigation, whether or not it is resolved in our favor, could result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. Effective trademark, copyright, trade secret and patent protection may not be available to us in every country in which we provide our solutions. The laws of some foreign countries are not as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the United States, and mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights in these jurisdictions may be inadequate. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights, and such monitoring may be insufficient to detect all misappropriation or infringement of our rights. We may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our intellectual property rights or to establish the validity of such rights.25Table of ContentsIf we lose key members of our management or engineering teams or are unable retain executives and employees that we need to support our operations and growth, our business and operating results may be harmed.Our success depends, in large part, on the continued contributions of our key management, engineering, sales personnel and other employees, many of whom are highly skilled and would be difficult to replace. None of our senior management or key technical or sales personnel is bound by a written employment contract to remain with us for a specified period. Moreover, any of our employees may terminate their employment at any time. Many of our key employees have become, or will soon become, vested in a substantial amount of their shares of common stock or stock options. Employees may be more likely to leave us if the shares they own, or the shares underlying their stock options, have vested. In addition, we do not maintain key man life insurance covering our key personnel. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel may harm our business and operating results.Our failure to comply with laws and regulations, including regulations affecting the import or export of products and anti-bribery laws, could harm our business.Our business is subject to regulation by various federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies, including agencies responsible for monitoring and enforcing employment and labor laws, workplace safety, product safety, environmental laws, consumer protection laws, anti-bribery laws, import/export controls, federal securities laws, and tax laws and regulations. In certain jurisdictions, these regulatory requirements may be more stringent than those in the United States. Noncompliance with applicable regulations or requirements could subject us to investigations, sanctions, product recalls, enforcement actions, disgorgement of profits, fines, damages, civil and criminal penalties or injunctions. If any governmental sanctions are imposed, or if we do not prevail in any possible civil or criminal litigation, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, responding to any action will likely result in a significant diversion of management’s attention and resources and an increase in professional fees. Enforcement actions and sanctions could harm our business, reputation, operating results and financial condition. Any change in laws, regulations or related legislation, shift in approach to the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could negatively affect our ability to sell our solutions and could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our planned international expansion creates additional regulatory challenges. Future international shipments of our solutions may require export licenses or export license exceptions. In addition, the import laws of other countries may limit our ability to distribute our solutions, or our customers’ ability to buy and use our solutions, in those countries. Changes in our solutions or changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our solutions in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our solutions or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our solutions to certain countries altogether. We expect that our planned expanding global operations will require us to import and export to and from several countries, resulting in additional compliance obligations.In particular, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, the United Kingdom Bribery Act 2010, or the Bribery Act, and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Under these laws, companies are required to maintain records that accurately and fairly represent their transactions and have an adequate system of internal accounting controls. We are expanding to operate in areas of the world, including in conjunction with our channel partners, that may experience corruption by government officials to some degree and, in certain circumstances, compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. In addition, network operators in various foreign countries may have influence with government officials and many are owned in whole or in part by foreign governments or instrumentalities. We cannot assure you that our employees, channel partners or other agents will not engage in prohibited conduct and render us responsible under the FCPA, the Bribery Act or any similar anti-bribery laws in another jurisdiction. If we are found to be in violation of the FCPA, the Bribery Act or other anti-bribery laws, either due to our nascent compliance system or the acts or omission of our employees, channel partners or other agents, we could suffer criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions, which could have an adverse effect on our business.26Table of ContentsChanges in telecommunications and Internet laws, regulations, rules and tariffs could impede the growth in network activity or otherwise harm our customers, which could have a negative effect on our business and operating results.Increased regulation of telecommunications and Internet network activity or access in the United States or any country in which we do business, particularly those that have the effect of impeding, or lessening the rate of growth in, network activity, could decrease demand for our solutions. New or increased access charges for telecommunications service providers and tariffs on certain communications services could negatively affect our customers’ businesses. Further, many of our customers are subject to FCC rate regulation of interstate telecommunications services, and are recipients of federal universal service fund payments, which are intended to subsidize telecommunications services in areas that are expensive to serve. In addition, many of our customers are subject to state regulation of intrastate telecommunications services, including rates for such services, and may also receive funding from state universal service funds. Changes in rate regulations or universal service funding rules, either at the federal or state level, could adversely affect such customers’ revenue and capital spending plans. Any adoption of new laws, regulations, rules or tariffs, or changes to existing laws, regulations, rules or tariffs, that negatively affects network activity or growth or otherwise adversely affects the business of our customers could harm our business and operating results.Industry consolidation may lead to increased competition or a decreased customer base, which could harm our business and operating results.Consolidation in the network equipment industry has been common. Some of our competitors have made acquisitions or entered into partnerships or other strategic relationships to offer a more comprehensive solution than they had offered individually. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or maintain their market positions in an evolving industry are acquired for a variety of strategic reasons or are unable to continue operations. Consolidation in our industry may result in stronger competitors that may create more compelling product offerings, be able to offer greater pricing flexibility and or terms and conditions of sale, including providing customers with substantial financing, and be better able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers. This would make it more difficult for us to compete effectively, including on the basis of price, sales and marketing programs and breadth of technology or product offerings. In addition, companies with which we have strategic partnerships may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us. Furthermore, continued industry consolidation may adversely affect customers’ perceptions of the viability of smaller and even medium-sized technology companies such as us and, consequently, customers’ willingness to purchase from such companies.In addition, consolidation of network operators may lead to a reduction in the number of potential customers, with the effect that the loss of any major customer could have a greater effect on operating results than in a customer marketplace composed of more numerous participants. Consolidation among our customers may also cause delays or reductions in their capital expenditure plans and increased competitive pricing pressures as the number of available customers declines and their relative purchasing power increases in relation to suppliers. Consolidation in the number of potential customers could lead to more variability in our operating results and could have an adverse effect on our business.27Table of ContentsWe may expand through acquisitions of, or investments in, other companies, business or technologies which may divert our management’s attention and result in additional dilution to our stockholders, and we may be unable to integrate acquired businesses and technologies successfully or achieve the expected benefits of such acquisitions or investments.While we have not consummated any acquisitions to date, we may evaluate and consider potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions of, or investments in, complementary businesses, technologies, services, products and other assets in the future. We also may enter into relationships with other businesses to expand our product and service offerings, which could involve preferred or exclusive licenses, additional channels of distribution, discount pricing, investments in other companies or strategic or joint venture partnership agreements. Acquisitions may disrupt our business, divert our resources and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for development of our existing business. The anticipated benefits of any acquisition, investment or business relationship may not be realized, or we may be exposed to risks or liabilities that were unknown at the time of the acquisition or that are different from those that faced our business prior to the acquisition. Negotiating and consummating these transactions can be time-consuming, difficult and expensive, and our ability to close these transactions may often be subject to approvals that are beyond our control. Consequently, these transactions, even if undertaken and announced, may not close. For one or more of those transactions, we may:•use cash that we may need in the future to operate our business;•incur debt on terms unfavorable to us or that we are unable to repay;•issue additional equity securities that would dilute our stockholders;•increase our working capital requirements;•incur substantial liabilities or large charges, such as impairment of goodwill or intangible assets, at the time of the transaction or for some period long after the transaction;•encounter difficulties retaining key employees of the acquired company or integrating diverse solutions or business cultures;•acquire companies with inadequate financial or operational reporting or control environments; and•become subject to adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges.We may not be able to address these risks successfully, or at all, without incurring significant costs, delays or other operating problems that could disrupt our business and have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.Unanticipated changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income or other tax returns could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities will be subject to the allocation of expenses in differing jurisdictions. Our future effective tax rates could be subject to volatility or adversely affected by a number of factors, including:•changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities;•expected timing and amount of the release of tax valuation allowances;•expiration of, or detrimental changes in, research and development tax credit laws;•expiration or non-utilization of net operating losses;•tax effects of stock-based compensation;•costs related to intercompany restructurings;•changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof; or•future earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory tax rate and higher than anticipated earnings in countries where we have higher statutory tax rates.In addition, we may be subject to audits of our income and sales taxes by the Internal Revenue Service and other foreign and state tax authorities. Outcomes from these audits could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.28Table of ContentsWe may not be able to utilize a significant portion of our net operating loss or research and development tax credit carryforwards, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.As of December 31, 2013, we had $81.5 million of federal and $75.9 million of state net operating loss carryforwards and $4.5 million of federal and $4.9 million of California research tax credit carryforwards available to reduce future taxable income. These net operating loss carryforwards begin to expire in 2026 for U.S. federal income tax and 2014 for state income tax purposes, and the research tax credit carryforwards begin to expire in 2027 for federal purposes, but do not expire for California purposes. U.S. federal and state income tax laws limit the amount of these carryforwards we can utilize in any given year upon a greater than 50% cumulative shift of stock ownership over a three-year period, including shifts due to the issuance of additional shares of our common stock, or securities convertible into our common stock. We may experience subsequent shifts in our stock ownership and, accordingly, there is a risk that our ability to use our existing carryforwards in the future could be limited and that existing carryforwards would be unavailable to offset future income tax liabilities, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.We are obligated to develop and maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting. We have not completed, and may not complete, our analysis of our internal control over financial reporting in a timely manner, or these internal controls may not be determined to be effective, which may adversely affect investor confidence in our company and, as a result, the value of our common stock.Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, at the time we file our second annual report with the SEC, we will be required to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. This assessment will need to include disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting. We are in the very early stages of the costly process of compiling the system and processing documentation necessary to perform the evaluation needed to comply with Section 404. We may not be able to complete our evaluation, testing and any required remediation in a timely fashion. During the evaluation and testing process, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal controls are effective. If we are unable to certify that our internal controls are effective, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would cause the price of our common stock to decline, and we may be subject to investigation or sanctions by the SEC. We will be required to disclose changes made in our internal control and procedures on a quarterly basis. However, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 until the later of the year following our first annual report required to be filed with the SEC, or the date we are no longer an “emerging growth company” as defined in the Jumpstart our Business Startups, or JOBS Act, if we take advantage of the exemptions contained in the JOBS Act. At such time, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed or operating. In addition, any remediation efforts we undertake may not be successful or enable us to avoid a material weakness in the future.Our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fire, floods and other natural catastrophic events, and to interruption by manmade problems such as network security breaches, computer viruses or terrorism.Our corporate headquarters, the manufacturing facilities of some of our suppliers, as well as our contract manufacturer’s current manufacturing facility for our Z-Series platforms, are all located in the San Francisco Bay Area, a region known for seismic activity. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, a fire or a flood, occurring near our headquarters, or near the facilities of our suppliers or contract manufacturer, could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Despite our implementation of network security measures, our networks and outside data center, by which we provide our Blue Planet platform, also may be vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our products. In addition, natural disasters, acts of terrorism or war could cause disruptions in our or our customers’ businesses, our suppliers’ and contract manufacturers’ operations or the economy as a whole. We also rely on information technology systems to communicate among our workforce and with third parties. Any disruption to our communications, whether caused by a natural disaster or by manmade problems, such as power disruptions, could adversely affect our business. To the extent that any such disruptions result in delays or cancellations of customer orders or impede our suppliers’ and contract manufacturer’s ability to timely deliver our solutions and components, the deployment of our solutions and our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected.29Table of ContentsRisks Relating to Capitalization MattersOur share price may be volatile.Technology stocks, including those of companies in the network industry, have historically experienced high levels of volatility. The trading price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance. The relatively small trading volume of our stock may result in small transactions having a large impact on our stock price. Such fluctuations could cause you to lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. Factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include:•price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time;•significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of technology companies in general, and of companies in the network industry in particular;•actual or anticipated changes in our operating results or fluctuations in our operating results;•actual or anticipated changes in the expectations of investors or securities analysts, and whether our operating results meet these expectations;•new product or service introductions and market demand for these and our existing solutions;•failure to meet investor expectations as a result of the timing of large customer orders;•actual or anticipated developments in our competitors’ businesses or the competitive landscape generally;•litigation involving us, our industry or both;•regulatory developments in the United States, internationally or both;•general economic conditions and trends;•major catastrophic events;•sales of large blocks of our stock; or•departures of key personnel.In addition, if either the market for technology stocks or the stock market in general experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, operating results or financial condition. The trading price of our common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in the network industry even if these events do not directly affect us.In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. If our stock price is volatile, we may become the target of securities litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources from our business, and this could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.If securities analysts cease to publish research or reports about our business, or if they downgrade our stock, the price of our stock could decline.The trading market for our common stock is influenced by any research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. In the event securities or industry analysts cover our company and one or more of these analysts downgrade our stock or publish unfavorable research about our business, our stock price could decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline.The concentration of ownership among our existing directors, executive officers and principal stockholders provide them, collectively, with substantial control over which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control.Our directors, executive officers and their affiliates, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 47% of the outstanding shares of our common stock based on the number of shares outstanding as of December 31, 2013. As a result, these stockholders, if acting together, may be able to influence or control matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers, acquisitions or other extraordinary transactions. They may also have interests that differ from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock.30Table of ContentsThe requirements of being a public company will subject us to increased costs and may strain our resources.As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Act, the listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange and other applicable securities rules and regulations. Compliance with these rules and regulations have and will continue to increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and increase demand on our systems and resources, particularly after we are no longer an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act. The Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and operating results. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. In order to maintain and, if required, improve our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting to meet this standard, significant resources and management oversight will be required. As a result, management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. We will likely need to hire more employees in the future or engage outside consultants to comply with these regulations, which will increase our costs and expenses.In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards are unsuccessful or differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to their application and practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be adversely affected.We are an “emerging growth company” and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors.For as long as we remain an “emerging growth company” under the JOBS Act, we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to public companies that are not “emerging growth companies” including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We may take advantage of these reporting exemptions until we are no longer an “emerging growth company.” We would cease to be an “emerging growth company” upon the earliest of:•January 1, 2019;•the first fiscal year after our annual gross revenue is $1.0 billion or more;•the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt securities; or•the end of any fiscal year in which the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates exceeded $700 million as of the end of the second quarter of that fiscal year.We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.In addition, under the JOBS Act, “emerging growth companies” can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this exemption from new or revised accounting standards, and, therefore, we will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies.”We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future.We have never declared or paid any dividends on our stock. We currently intend to retain any earnings to finance the operation and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. In addition, our loan facility contains restrictions on our ability to declare and pay cash dividends on our capital stock. As a result, you may only receive a return on your investment in our common stock if the market price of our common stock increases.31Table of ContentsProvisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and under Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock.Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could depress the trading price of our common stock by acting to discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous. These provisions:•establish a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board of directors are elected at one time;•authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that our board of directors could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares to discourage a takeover attempt;•prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders;•prohibit stockholders from calling a special meeting of our stockholders;•provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws; and•establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings.Additionally, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any “interested” stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an “interested” stockholder and which may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company.Any provision of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock.32Table of ContentsItem 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.