Item 1A. Risk Factors The Bank’s increased emphasis on commercial real estate and commercial lending may expose it to increased lending risks. In recent years, the Bank has significantly increased its emphasis on commercial real estate lending. Commercial real estate loans increased from $64.6 million, or 15.7% of its total loans, at September 30, 2004 to $127.6 million, or 31.2% of its total loans, at September 30, 2008. Moreover, as part of the Bank’s strategy to increase earnings, it will seek to continue to increase commercial real estate lending, as well as commercial lending, and intends to add commercial lending personnel to assist in these efforts. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than single-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers and, for construction loans, the accuracy of the estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction and the estimated cost of construction. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to single-family residential mortgage loans. Commercial business loans expose the Bank to additional risks since they typically are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayments from the cash flow of the borrower’s business and are secured by non-real estate collateral that may depreciate over time. In addition, since such loans generally entail greater risk than single-family residential mortgage loans, the Bank may need to increase its allowance for loan losses in the future to account for the possible increase in credit losses associated with the growth of such loans. Also, many of the Bank’s commercial and construction borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with the Bank. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose the Bank to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a single-family residential mortgage loan. Our portfolio of residential mortgage loans exposes us to a risk of loss due to a decline in property values. At September 30, 2008, $207.2 million, or 50.7%, of our loan portfolio consisted of residential mortgage loans and $17.9 million, or 4.4%, of our loan portfolio consisted of home equity loans. Recent declines in the housing market have resulted in declines in real estate values in our market areas. These declines in real estate values could cause some of our mortgage and home equity loans to be inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss in the event that we seek to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral. Higher loan losses could require us to increase our allowance for loan losses through a charge to earnings. When we loan money we incur the risk that our borrowers do not repay their loans. We reserve for loan losses by establishing an allowance through a charge to earnings. The amount of this allowance is based on our assessment of loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio. The process for determining the amount of the allowance is critical to our financial results and condition. It requires subjective and complex judgments about the future, including forecasts of economic or market conditions that might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. We might underestimate the loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio and have loan losses in excess of the amount reserved. We might increase the allowance because of changing economic conditions. For example, in a rising interest rate environment, borrowers with adjustable-rate loans could see their payments increase. There may be a significant increase in the number of borrowers who are unable or unwilling to repay their loans, resulting in our charging off more loans and increasing our allowance. In addition, when real estate values decline, the potential severity of loss on a real estate-secured loan can increase significantly, especially in the case of loans with high loan-to-value ratios. Our allowance for loan losses at September 30, 2008, may not be sufficient to cover future loan losses. We may be required to increase our allowance for loan losses, thus reducing earnings. Changes in interest rates could reduce the Bank’s net interest income and earnings. The Bank’s net interest income is the interest it earns on loans and investments less the interest it pays on its deposits and borrowings. The net interest margin is the difference between the yield the Bank earns on its assets and the interest rate it pays for deposits and its other sources of funding. Changes in interest rates—up or down—could adversely affect the Bank’s net interest margin and, as a result, its net interest income. Although the yield the Bank earns on its assets and its funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing the Bank’s net interest margin to expand or contract. Liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than the Bank’s assets, so they may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates. As a result, when interest rates rise, the Bank’s funding costs may rise faster than the yield it earns on its assets, causing the Bank’s net interest margin to contract until the yield catches up. Changes in the slope of the “yield curve”—or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates—could also reduce net interest margin. Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. Because the Bank’s liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than its assets, when the yield curve flattens or even inverts, the Bank could experience pressure on its net interest margin as its cost of funds increases relative to the yield that can be earned on its assets. 36 Table of Contents An economic recession or even a modest slowdown could reduce demand for our products and services and lead to lower revenue and lower earnings. Our business activities and earnings are affected by general business conditions in the United States. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, unemployment levels, monetary supply, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, and the strength of the United States economy and the local economy in which we operate. For example, an economic downturn, an increase in unemployment, a decline in real estate values or other events that affect household and/or corporate incomes could result in reduced demand for credit or fee-based products and services. An economic downturn can also hurt the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, causing us to incur higher loan losses. Nearly all of our loans are secured by real estate or made to businesses in the Baltimore metropolitan area, Maryland. As a result of this concentration, a downturn in the local economy could cause significant increases in nonperforming loans, which would hurt our profits. If we conclude that the decline in value of any of our investment securities is other than temporary, we are required to write down the value of those securities through a charge to earnings. At September 30, 2008, the Bank’s mortgage-backed securities portfolio had gross unrealized losses of approximately $4.0 million, most of which related to $25.1 million in CMO obligations. Gross market value of these CMOs declined by $1.2 million during the three months ended September 30, 2008 and declined by $3.7 million during the twelve months ended September 30, 2008. The decline in value was not significant until the quarter ended June 30, 2008, indicating notably lower valuations over a period of less than six months as of September 30, 2008. The price decline resulted from distressed selling in an illiquid market for these types of mortgage-backed securities. The Bank has the ability and the intent to hold these securities to maturity and, to date, the securities have performed in accordance with their terms. If in the future it is determined that declines in market values with respect to these or any other securities are other than temporary, the Bank would be required to recognize losses in its Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Bank has no equity holdings in Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation or Federal National Mortgage Association stock and, accordingly, has no loss exposure in this area. The Bank does not expect to recover all of its losses from a check-kiting scheme perpetrated against it in 2006, and its recovery efforts are expected to take a long period of time and may result in further expenses or litigation. In late June 2006, the Bank became aware of a check-kiting scheme perpetrated by a single commercial deposit customer. It is believed that this scheme took place over an extended period of time prior to its discovery by the Bank in June 2006. As a result of this check-kiting scheme, the Bank incurred an after-tax loss of $6.9 million. During the quarter ended March 31, 2007, the Bank reached a settlement with its insurance provider, pursuant to which it received a recovery of $2.2 million net of taxes in settlement of a bond claim with our insurance carrier. The Bank is aggressively pursuing collection of the remaining check-kiting losses from the customer, but the customer has filed for bankruptcy and one of the two principals of the customer has committed suicide. It does not appear that the customer, the surviving principal or the estate of the deceased principal has material assets from which the Bank could make any recovery, particularly after payment of bankruptcy expenses by the bankruptcy estate of the customer. Moreover, there are other secured and unsecured creditors who are asserting additional and competing claims against the bankruptcy estate of the customer and certain principals of the customer. The recovery process is uncertain and is expected to require an extended period of time to resolve. The Bank will incur further expenses in pursuing its recovery efforts, and litigation expenses involving the bankruptcy matter and other inter-creditor litigation as described under Item 3 Legal Proceedings. The Bank reported an expense of $296,000 on a pre-tax basis in connection with pursuing and defending various claims in the bankruptcy estate of the former customer and with other litigants with competing claims seeking to recover limited available assets Management felt it was prudent to recognize this expense in light of the complex and protracted nature of the ongoing proceeding. At this time, management does not believe, however, that the Bank will incur additional material expenses in connection with this matter. In addition, the negative publicity from the check-kiting scheme adversely affected the Bank’s ability in the short term to attract and retain deposits. The Bank has examined all deposit accounts with more than a minimal negative balance and believe it does not have a risk of additional material check-kiting losses at this time. The Bank also has developed and implemented additional procedures to detect check-kiting that it believes will further reduce the risk of future check-kiting losses. Strong competition within Baltimore County Savings Bank’s market area could adversely affect profits and slow growth. The Bank faces intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for the Bank to make new loans and at times has forced us to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in the Bank earning less on loans and paying more on deposits, which would reduce net interest income. Some of the institutions with which it competes have substantially greater resources and lending limits than the Bank has and may offer services that the Bank does not provide. The Bank expects competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. The Bank’s profitability depends upon its continued ability to compete successfully in its market area. 37 Table of Contents The Bank and Company operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. Both the Bank and the Company are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision, their primary federal regulator, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of the Bank’s deposits. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of the Bank rather than holders of the Company’s common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 