Item 1A. Risk Factors The Bank and the Company are subject to the restrictions and conditions of a Supervisory Agreement with, and other commitments the bank has made to, the Office of Thrift Supervision. Failure to comply with the Supervisory Agreement could result in additional enforcement action against it, including the imposition of monetary penalties, and could adversely affect the Bank’s ability to meet the obligations under the Company’s trust preferred securities. The Bank and the Company entered into a Supervisory Agreement with the Office of Thrift Supervision on December 8, 2005, which requires the Bank and the Company to take certain actions, including complying with the Bank Secrecy Act and the Flood Disaster Protection Act and submitting a business plan to the Office of Thrift Supervision for review and approval. In addition, the Bank and the Company have made certain other commitments to the Office of Thrift Supervision, whereby we agreed, among other things, that the Bank will not pay any dividend to the Company or to Baltimore County Savings Bank, M.H.C. without the prior written approval of the Office of Thrift Supervision and that the Company will not incur any debt without the prior written approval of the Office of Thrift Supervision. While management believes that the Bank has complied with the terms of the Supervisory Agreement and its other commitments, if the Bank fails to comply with the terms and conditions of the Supervisory Agreement, the Office of Thrift Supervision could take additional enforcement action against it, including the imposition of monetary penalties or the issuance of a cease and desist order requiring further corrective action. The Bank and the Company have incurred significant additional regulatory compliance expense in connection with the Supervisory Agreement and our additional commitments, and although management does not expect it, it is possible regulatory compliance expenses related to the Supervisory Agreement and the Bank’s other commitments could have a material adverse impact on it in the future. In addition, the Office of Thrift Supervision must approve any deviation from its business plan, which could limit the Bank’s and Company’s ability to make any changes to our business, which could negatively impact the scope and flexibility of business activities. Moreover, if the Company is unable to complete its proposed stock offering, the Company’s commitment not to incur debt, and the Bank’s commitment not to pay a dividend to the Company, without prior Office of Thrift Supervision approval, could adversely affect our ability to meet our 34 obligations under our trust preferred securities. While management believes that the Bank and the Company have taken actions that will result in the Supervisory Agreement and its other commitments being terminated in the near future, such actions may not result in the Office of Thrift Supervision terminating the Supervisory Agreement. The Bank has had losses and low earnings in recent years, and if it cannot generate and increase its income to competitive levels the Company’s stock price may be adversely affected. The Bank’s net income has decreased in recent years. Net income was $1.3 million, $885,000 and $601,000 for the years ended September 30, 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. The Bank had net losses of $7.4 million and $2.9 million for the years ended September 30, 2006 and 2007, respectively, the return on average assets was (.41)%, (.92)%, .08%, ..12% and .21% for the years ended September 30, 2007, 2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, and the return on average equity was (8.57)%, (19.86)%, 1.40%, 2.03% and 2.94% for the years ended September 30, 2007, 2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The Bank faces significant challenges that will hinder its ability to generate competitive returns. These challenges include the fact that it operates under a Supervisory Agreement with the Office of Thrift Supervision, the Bank has limited cash at the holding company level and has a low interest rate spread. The Bank’s interest rate spread, which is the difference between the average yield earned on its interest-earning assets and the average rate paid on its interest rate spread, declined from 2.81% for the year ended September 30, 2003 to 2.43% for the year ended September 30, 2004 to 2.16% for the year ended September 30, 2005 to 1.96% for the year ended September 30, 2006. Its interest rate spread increased to 2.04% for the year ended September 30, 2007 primarily due to the balance sheet restructuring we completed earlier in the year. While the bank has identified various strategic initiatives it will pursue in its efforts to overcome these challenges and improve earnings, its strategic initiatives my not succeed in generating and increasing income. If the bank is unable to generate or increase income, the Company’s stock price may be adversely affected. The Bank’s increased emphasis on commercial real estate and commercial lending may expose it to increased lending risks. In recent years, the Bank has significantly increased its emphasis on commercial real estate lending. Commercial real estate loans increased from $53.7 million, or 13.8% of its total loans, at September 30, 2003 to $119.6 million, or 27.8% of its total loans, at September 30, 2007. Moreover, as part of the Bank’s strategy to increase earnings, it will seek to continue to increase commercial real estate lending, as well as commercial lending, and intend to add commercial lending personnel to assist it in these efforts. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than single-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers and, for construction loans, the accuracy of the estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction and the estimated cost of construction. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to single-family residential mortgage loans. Commercial business loans expose the Bank to additional risks since they typically are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayments from the cash flow of the borrower’s business and are secured by non-real estate collateral that may depreciate over time. In addition, since such loans generally entail greater risk than single-family residential mortgage loans, the Bank may need to increase its allowance for loan losses in the future to account for the likely increase in probable incurred credit losses associated with the growth of such loans. Also, many of the Bank’s commercial and construction borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with the Bank. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose the Bank to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a single-family residential mortgage loan. Certain interest rate movements may decrease income and asset value. Since June 30, 2004, the U.S. Federal Reserve has increased its target for the federal funds rate from 1.00% to 5.25%. While these short-term market interest rates, which the Bank uses as a guide to price its deposits, have increased, longer-term market interest rates, which the Bank uses as a guide to price its longer-term loans, have not increased to the same degree. As a result, the Bank was in an interest rate environment known as an “inverted yield curve,” where short-term market interest rates exceeded long-term market interest rates. This inversion of the market yield curve had a negative impact on the Bank’s interest rate spread and net interest margin. Short-term rates have since been declining over the final quarter of 2007, helping to establish a more normal yield curve. 35 Changes in interest rates also affect the value of the Bank’s interest-earning assets, and in particular its securities portfolio. Generally, the value of fixed-rate securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale are reported as a separate component of equity, net of tax. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale resulting from increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity. The Bank does not expect to recover all of its losses from a recent check-kiting scheme, and its recovery efforts are expected to take a long period of time and may result in further expenses or litigation. In late June 2006, the Bank became aware of a check-kiting scheme perpetrated by a single commercial deposit customer. It is believed that this scheme took place over an extended period of time prior to its discovery by the Bank in June 2006. As a result of this check-kiting scheme, the Bank incurred an after-tax loss of $6.9 million. During the quarter ended March 31, 2007, the Bank reached a settlement with its insurance provider, pursuant to which it received a recovery of $2.2 million pre-tax in settlement of a bond claim with our insurance carrier. The Bank is aggressively pursuing collection of the remaining check-kiting losses from the customer, but the customer has filed for bankruptcy and one of the two principals of the customer has committed suicide. It does not appear that the customer, the surviving principal or the estate of the deceased principal has material assets from which the Bank could make any recovery, particularly after payment of bankruptcy expenses by the bankruptcy estate of the customer. Moreover, there are other secured and unsecured creditors who are asserting additional and competing claims against the bankruptcy estate of the customer and certain principals of the customer. The recovery process is uncertain and is expected to require an extended period of time to resolve. The Bank will incur further expenses in pursuing its recovery efforts, and it is possible that the Bank may be involved in litigation with other creditors as it seeks to recover limited available assets. It is also possible that the Bank will incur expenses and liability for claims brought against it although to date no claims have been brought. The Bank reported an expense of $296,000 on a pre-tax basis in connection with pursuing and defending various claims in the bankruptcy estate of the former customer and with other litigants with competing claims seeking to recover limited available assets. Management felt it was prudent to recognize this expense in light of the complex and protracted nature of the ongoing proceeding. At this time, management does not believe, however, that the Bank will incur additional material expenses in connection with this matter. In addition, the negative publicity from the check-kiting scheme adversely affected the Bank’s ability in the short term to attract and retain deposits. The Bank has examined all deposit accounts with more than a minimal negative balance and believe it does not have a risk of additional material check-kiting losses at this time. The Bank also has developed and implemented additional procedures to detect check-kiting that it believes will further reduce the risk of future check-kiting losses. The Company currently does not pay dividends and may not resume the payment of dividends. The Company currently does not pay dividends and does not expect to resume the payment of dividends. On December 1, 2006, the Company suspended its dividend program and agreed with the Office of Thrift Supervision that it will not issue a dividend to stockholders going forward without Office of Thrift Supervision consent. The Company has also made an additional commitment to the Office of Thrift Supervision not to pay a dividend to stockholders without the prior written approval of the Office of Thrift Supervision. Besides the Office of Thrift Supervision limitations to which the Company is subject, its ability to pay dividends will depend on a number of factors, including capital requirements, our financial condition and results of operations, including the ability to generate sufficient earnings to warrant the payment of dividends, tax considerations, statutory and regulatory limitations and general economic conditions. In addition, the ability to pay dividends may depend, in part, on the Company’s receipt of dividends from the Bank because the Company initially will have no source of income other than earnings from the investments. The Company has made a commitment to the Office of Thrift Supervision that the Bank will not pay any dividend to it or to Baltimore County Savings Bank, M.H.C. without the prior written approval of the Office of Thrift Supervision. In addition to the specific commitment the Company made, Office of Thrift Supervision regulations limit distributions from the Bank to the Company. A downturn in the local economy or a decline in real estate values could hurt our profits. Nearly all of the Bank’s real estate loans are secured by real estate in Baltimore, Harford and Howard Counties and Baltimore City in Maryland. As a result, a downturn in the local economy, and, particularly, a downturn in the residential construction industry, 36 could cause significant increases in non-performing loans, which would adversely affect profits. Additionally, a decrease in asset quality could require additions to the Bank’s allowance for loan losses through increased provisions for loan losses, which would negatively affect profits. A decline in real estate values could cause some of the Bank’s mortgage loans to become inadequately collateralized, which would expose it to a greater risk of loss. Strong competition within Baltimore County Savings Bank’s market area could adversely affect profits and slow growth. The Bank faces intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for the Bank to make new loans and at times has forced us to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in the Bank earning less on loans and paying more on deposits, which would reduce net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult for the Bank to grow loans and deposits and to hire and retain experienced employees. Competition also makes it more difficult to hire and retain experienced employees. Some of the institutions with which it competes have substantially greater resources and lending limits than the bank has and may offer services that the Bank does not provide. The Bank expects competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. The Bank’s profitability depends upon its continued ability to compete successfully in its market area. The Bank and Company operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. Both the Bank and the Company are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision, their primary federal regulator, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of the Bank’s deposits. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of the Bank rather than holders of the Company’s common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on operations. The MHC’s majority control of the Company’s common stock enables it to exercise voting control over most matters put to a vote of stockholders and will prevent stockholders from forcing a sale or a second-step conversion transaction which stockholders may find advantageous. The MHC owns a majority of the Company’s common stock and, through its board of directors, is able to exercise voting control over most matters put to a vote of stockholders. The same directors and officers who manage the Company and the Bank also manage the MHC. As a federally chartered mutual holding company, the board of directors of the MHC must ensure that the interest of depositors of the Bank are represented and considered in matters put to a vote of stockholders of the Company. Therefore, the votes cast by the MHC may not be in stockholders’ personal best interests. For example, the MHC may exercise its voting control to defeat a stockholder nominee for election to the Company’s board of directors. In addition, stockholders will not be able to force a merger or second-step conversion transaction without the consent of the MHC. Some stockholders may desire a sale or merger transaction, since stockholders typically receive a premium for their shares, or a second-step conversion transaction, since fully converted institutions tend to trade at higher multiples than mutual holding companies. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 37 