Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below. These risks are not the only risks that we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected which could cause our actual operating results to differ materially from those indicated or suggested by forward-looking statements made in this annual report on Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. Risks Related to Our Business A jury has determined that we are infringing a competitor’s patent, and an injunction may be entered against us that could force us to cease providing our CDN services. In February 2008, a jury returned a verdict in a patent infringement lawsuit filed by Akamai Technologies, Inc., or Akamai, and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, or MIT, against us, finding that we infringed four claims of the patent at issue and rejecting our invalidity defenses. The jury awarded Akamai an aggregate of approximately $45.5 million in lost profits, reasonable royalties and price erosion damages, plus pre-judgment interest estimated to be $2.6 million that we recorded in 2007. An additional provision of approximately $17.5 million, for potential additional infringement damages and interest was recorded during the year ended December 31, 2008. Although we believe that as of December 31, 2008, we have migrated all CDN services to a non-infringing method, that belief may be challenged by Akamai. Depending upon whether we receive a challenge from Akamai and also upon judicial determinations made in connection with such a challenge, there could be additional charges recorded by us in future periods, in addition to continuing interest on the existing provision amount. A final judgment has not yet been entered. We continue to believe that the claims of infringement asserted against us by Akamai and MIT in the present litigation are without merit and that the jury’s verdict is incorrect, and we will continue to defend the case vigorously; however, we cannot assure you that this lawsuit ultimately will be resolved in our favor. An adverse judgment or injunction could seriously impact our ability to conduct our business and to offer our products and services to our customers. A permanent injunction could prevent us from operating our CDN to deliver certain types of traffic, which could impact the viability of our business. These adverse outcomes, in turn, would harm our revenue, market share, reputation, liquidity and overall financial position. Whether or not we prevail in this case, we expect that the litigation will continue to be expensive, time consuming and a distraction to our management in operating our business. This lawsuit and other ongoing legal proceedings are described under “Legal Proceedings” in Part 1, Item 3 of this annual report on Form 10-K. We may need to defend our intellectual property and processes against patent or copyright infringement claims, which would cause us to incur substantial costs and threaten our ability to do business. Companies, organizations or individuals, including our competitors, may hold or obtain patents or other proprietary rights that would prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or sell our services or develop new services, which could make it more difficult for us to operate our business. From time to time, we may receive inquiries from holders of patents inquiring whether we infringe their proprietary rights. Companies holding Internet-related patents or other intellectual property rights are increasingly bringing suits alleging infringement of such rights or otherwise asserting their rights and seeking licenses. For example, in June 2006, we were sued by Akamai and MIT alleging we infringed patents licensed to Akamai, and in February 2008 a jury returned a verdict in this case, finding that we infringed four claims of the patent at issue and rejecting our invalidity defenses. An adverse judgment or injunction could seriously impact our ability to conduct our business and to offer our products and services to our customers. A permanent injunction could prevent us from operating our CDN to deliver certain types of traffic, which could impact the viability of our business. In addition, in December 2007, Level 3 Communications, or Level 3, filed a lawsuit against us alleging that we are infringing three patents Level 3 allegedly acquired from Savvis Communications Corp. In January 2009, a jury returned a verdict favorable for us finding we did not infringe the Level 3 patents at issue in that trial. Any litigation or 17 Table of Contents claims, whether or not valid, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. See “Legal Proceeding” in Part I, Item 3 of this annual report on Form 10-K. In addition, if we are determined to have infringed upon a third party’s intellectual property rights, we may be required to do one or more of the following: • cease selling, incorporating or using products or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • pay substantial damages; • obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right, which license may or may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; or • redesign products or services. If we are forced to take any of these actions, our business may be seriously harmed. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us and our failure or inability to obtain a license to the infringed technology, our business and operating results could be harmed. The expense of defending these lawsuits and other lawsuits to which we may be a party (see discussion in “Legal Proceedings” in Part I, Item 3 of this annual report on Form 10K), particularly fees paid to our lawyers and expert consultants, has been and will continue to be significant and will continue to adversely affect our operating results during the pendency of the lawsuits. Our limited operating history makes evaluating our business and future prospects difficult, and may increase the risk of your investment. Our Company has only been in existence since 2001. A significant amount of our growth, in terms of employees, operations and revenue, has occurred since 2004. For example, our revenue has grown from $5.0 million in 2003 to $65.2 million in 2006 to $103.1 million in 2007 and $129.5 million in 2008. As a consequence, we have a limited operating history which makes it difficult to evaluate our business and our future prospects. We have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries, such as the risks described in this annual report on Form 10-K. If we do not address these risks successfully, our business will be harmed. If we fail to manage future growth effectively, we may not be able to market and sell our services successfully. We have recently expanded our operations significantly, increasing our total number of employees from 29 at December 31, 2004 to 294 at December 31, 2008, and we anticipate that further significant expansion will be required. Our future operating results depend to a large extent on our ability to manage this expansion and growth successfully. Risks that we face in undertaking this expansion include: training new sales personnel to become productive and generate revenue; forecasting revenue; controlling expenses and investments in anticipation of expanded operations; implementing and enhancing our content delivery network, or CDN, and administrative infrastructure, systems and processes; addressing new markets; and expanding international operations. A failure to manage our growth effectively could materially and adversely affect our ability to market and sell our products and services. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements could be impaired, which could adversely affect our operating results, our ability to operate our business and investors’ views of us. We must ensure that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place so that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis. We are required to spend considerable effort on establishing and maintaining our internal controls, which is costly and time-consuming and needs to be re-evaluated frequently. We have very limited experience in designing and testing our internal controls. For 18 Table of Contents example, during the third quarter of 2007, we discovered material weaknesses in our system of internal controls over our revenue recognition and stock-based compensation processes that required us to restate our previously reported consolidated financial statements for the three-and nine-months ended September 30, 2006, the three-months and year ended December 31, 2006, the three-months ended March 31, 2007, and the three-and-six months ended June 30, 2007. We have only operated as a public company since June 2007 and we will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses as we comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Nasdaq Stock Market’s Global Market. These rules impose various new requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel will continue to devote a substantial amount of time to these new compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, we expect these new rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantial costs to maintain the same or similar coverage. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we include in our annual report our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our audited financial statements as of the end of each fiscal year. Furthermore, our independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP, (“E&Y”), is required to report on whether it believes we maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of the end of the year. We successfully completed our assessment and obtained E&Y’s attestation as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. Our continued compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial expense and expend significant management time on compliance related issues. We currently do not have an internal audit group and use an international accounting firm to assist us with our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. In future years, if we fail to timely complete this assessment, or if E&Y cannot timely attest, there may be a loss of public confidence in our internal controls, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to regulatory sanctions or investigations by the Nasdaq Stock Market’s Global Market, the Securities and Exchange Commission or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. In addition, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to timely meet our regulatory reporting obligations. We currently face competition from established competitors and may face competition from others in the future. We compete in markets that are intensely competitive, rapidly changing and characterized by constantly declining prices and vendors offering a wide range of content delivery solutions. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience increased competition, and particularly aggressive price competition. Many of our current competitors, as well as a number of our potential competitors, have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, broader customer relationships and industry alliances and substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. As a consequence of the competitive dynamics in our market we have experienced reductions in our prices, which in turn adversely affect our revenue, gross margin and operating results. Our primary competitors include content delivery service providers such as Akamai, Level 3 Communications, AT&T, CDNetworks and Internap Network Services Corporation, which acquired VitalStream. Also, as a result of the growth of the content delivery market, a number of companies have recently entered or are currently attempting to enter our market, either directly or indirectly, some of which may become significant 19 Table of Contents competitors in the future. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Given the relative ease by which customers typically can switch among CDN providers, differentiated offerings or pricing by competitors could lead to a rapid loss of customers. Some of our current or potential competitors may bundle their offerings with other services, software or hardware in a manner that may discourage content providers from purchasing the services that we offer. In addition, as we expand internationally, we face different market characteristics and competition with local content delivery service providers, many of which are very well positioned within their local markets. Increased competition could result in price reductions and revenue shortfalls, loss of customers and loss of market share, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may lose customers if they elect to develop content delivery solutions internally. Our customers and potential customers may decide to develop their own content delivery solutions rather than outsource these solutions to CDN services providers like us. This is particularly true as our customers increase their operations and begin expending greater resources on delivering their content using third-party solutions. If we fail to offer CDN services that are competitive to in-sourced solutions, we may lose additional customers or fail to attract customers that may consider pursuing this in-sourced approach, and our business and financial results would suffer. We may lose customers if they are unable to build business models that effectively monetize delivery of their content. Our customers may not be successful in selling advertising or otherwise monetizing the content we delivery on their behalf and consequently may not be successful in creating a profitable business model. This may result in some of our customers discontinuing their internet or web-based business operations and discontinuing use of our services and products. For example, during the three-month period ended March 31, 2008, a significant customer discontinued it website business and ceased using our CDN services. From time to time we also discontinue service to customers for non-payment of services. We expect further customers may similarly discontinue operations. Further loss of customers may adversely affect our financial results. Rapidly evolving technologies or new business models could cause demand for our CDN services to decline or could cause these services to become obsolete. Customers or third parties may develop technological or business model innovations that address content delivery requirements in a manner that is, or is perceived to be, equivalent or superior to our CDN services. If competitors introduce new products or services that compete with or surpass the quality or the price/performance of our services, we may be unable to renew our agreements with existing customers or attract new customers at the prices and levels that allow us to generate attractive rates of return on our investment. For example, one or more third parties might develop improvements to current peer-to-peer technology, which is a technology that relies upon the computing power and bandwidth of its participants, such that this technological approach is better able to deliver content in a way that is competitive to our CDN services, or even makes CDN services obsolete. We may not anticipate such developments and may be unable to adequately compete with these potential solutions. In addition, our customers’ business models may change in ways that we do not anticipate and these changes could reduce or eliminate our customers’ needs for CDN services. If this occurred, we could lose customers or potential customers, and our business and financial results would suffer. As a result of these or similar potential developments, in the future it is possible that competitive dynamics in our market may require us to reduce our prices, which could harm our revenue, gross margin and operating results. 20 Table of Contents If we are unable to sell our services at acceptable prices relative to our costs, our revenue and gross margins will decrease, and our business and financial results will suffer. Prices for content delivery services have fallen in recent years and are likely to fall further in the future. We have invested significant amounts in purchasing capital equipment to increase the capacity of our content delivery services. For example, in 2006 we invested $40.6 million in capital expenditures and $22.7 million in capital expenditures during 2007, primarily for computer equipment associated with the build-out and expansion of our CDN. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we invested $18.1 million. Our investments in our infrastructure are based upon our assumptions regarding future demand and also prices that we will be able to charge for our services. These assumptions may prove to be wrong. If the price that we are able to charge customers to deliver their content falls to a greater extent than we anticipate, if we over-estimate future demand for our services or if our costs to deliver our services do not fall commensurate with any future price declines, we may not be able to achieve acceptable rates of return on our infrastructure investments and our gross profit and results of operations may suffer dramatically. In addition, during 2009 we expect to increase our expenses, in absolute dollars, in sales and marketing and research and development, while reducing general and administrative expenses. During 2009 and 2010, as we further expand our CDN, and we begin to refresh our network equipment, we expect our capital expenditures to be generally consistent with the level of expenditures we made in 2008. As a consequence, we are dependent on significant future growth in demand for our services to provide the necessary gross profit to pay these additional expenses. If we fail to generate significant additional demand for our services, our results of operations will suffer and we may fail to achieve planned or expected financial results. There are numerous factors that could, alone or in combination with other factors, impede our ability to increase revenue, moderate expenses or maintain gross margins, including: • failure to increase sales of our core services; • significant increases in bandwidth and rack space costs or other operating expenses; • inability to maintain our prices relative to our costs; • failure of our current and planned services and software to operate as expected; • loss of any significant customers or loss of existing customers at a rate greater than our increase in new customers or our sales to existing customers; • failure to increase sales of our services to current customers as a result of their ability to reduce their monthly usage of our services to their minimum monthly contractual commitment; • failure of a significant number of customers to pay our fees on a timely basis or at all or failure to continue to purchase our services in accordance with their contractual commitments; and • inability to attract high-quality customers to purchase and implement our current and planned services. If we are unable to develop new services and enhancements to existing services or fail to predict and respond to emerging technological trends and customers’ changing needs, our operating results may suffer. The market for our CDN services is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and new product and service introductions. Our operating results depend on our ability to develop and introduce new services into existing and emerging markets. The process of developing new technologies is complex and uncertain. We must commit significant resources to developing new services or enhancements to our existing services before knowing whether our investments will result in services the market will accept. Furthermore, we may not execute successfully our technology initiatives because of errors in planning or timing, technical hurdles that we fail to overcome in a timely fashion, misunderstandings about market demand or a lack of appropriate resources. Failures in execution or market acceptance of new services we introduce could result in competitors providing those solutions before we do, which could lead to loss of market share, revenue and earnings. 21 Table of Contents We depend on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenue in any fiscal period, and the loss of, or a significant shortfall in demand from these customers could significantly harm our results of operations. During any given fiscal period, a relatively small number of customers typically account for a significant percentage of our revenue. For example, in 2008, sales to our top 10 customers, in terms of revenue, accounted for approximately 38% of our total revenue. During 2007 and 2006, sales to our top 10 customers, in terms of revenue, accounted for approximately 45% and 55%, respectively, of our total revenue. During 2008 and 2007 one of these top 10 customers, Microsoft, represented approximately 15% and 12% of our total revenue for that period. In the past, the customers that comprised our top 10 customers have continually changed, and we also have experienced significant fluctuations in our individual customers’ usage of our services. As a consequence, we may not be able to adjust our expenses in the short term to address the unanticipated loss of a large customer during any particular period. As such, we may experience significant, unanticipated fluctuations in our operating results which may cause us to not meet our expectations or those of stock market analysts, which could cause our stock price to decline. If we are unable to attract new customers or to retain our existing customers, our revenue could be lower than expected and our operating results may suffer. In addition to adding new customers, to increase our revenue, we must sell additional services to existing customers and encourage existing customers to increase their usage levels. If our existing and prospective customers do not perceive our services to be of sufficiently high value and quality, we may not be able to retain our current customers or attract new customers. We sell our services pursuant to service agreements that generally include some form of financial minimum commitment. Our customers have no obligation to renew their contracts for our services after the expiration of their initial commitment, and these service agreements may not be renewed at the same or higher level of service, if at all. Moreover, under some circumstances, some of our customers have the right to cancel their service agreements prior to the expiration of the terms of their agreements. Because of our limited operating history, we have limited historical data with respect to rates of customer service agreement renewals. This fact, in addition to the changing competitive landscape in our market, means that we cannot accurately predict future customer renewal rates. Our customers’ renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including: • their satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our services; • the prices of our services; • the prices of services offered by our competitors; • discontinuation by our customers of their internet or web-based content distribution business; • mergers and acquisitions affecting our customer base; and • reductions in our customers’ spending levels. If our customers do not renew their service agreements with us or if they renew on less favorable terms, our revenue may decline and our business will suffer. Similarly, our customer agreements often provide for minimum commitments that are often significantly below our customers’ historical usage levels. Consequently, even if we have agreements with our customers to use our services, these customers could significantly curtail their usage without incurring any penalties under our agreements. In this event, our revenue would be lower than expected and our operating results could suffer. It also is an important component of our growth strategy to market our CDN services to industries, such as enterprise and the government. As an organization, we do not have significant experience in selling our services into these markets. We have only recently begun a number of these initiatives, and our ability to successfully sell our services into these markets to a meaningful extent remains unproven. If we are unsuccessful in such efforts, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. 22 Table of Contents Our results of operations may fluctuate in the future. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If our results of operations fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. In addition to the effects of other risks discussed in this section, fluctuations in our results of operations may be due to a number of factors, including: • our ability to increase sales to existing customers and attract new customers to our CDN services; • the addition or loss of large customers, or significant variation in their use of our CDN services; • costs associated with current or future intellectual property lawsuits and other lawsuits; • service outages or security breaches; • the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the maintenance and expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; • the timing and success of new product and service introductions by us or our competitors; • the occurrence of significant events in a particular period that result in an increase in the use of our CDN services, such as a major media event or a customer’s online release of a new or updated video game; • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; • the timing of recognizing revenue; • share-based compensation expenses associated with attracting and retaining key personnel; • limitations of the capacity of our content delivery network and related systems; • the timing of costs related to the development or acquisition of technologies, services or businesses; • general economic, industry and market conditions (such as the fluctuations experienced in the stock and credit markets during the third and fourth quarters of 2008) and those conditions specific to Internet usage and online businesses; • limitations on usage imposed by our customers in order to limit their online expenses; and • geopolitical events such as war, threat of war or terrorist actions. We believe that our revenue and results of operations may vary significantly in the future and that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. You should not rely on the results of one period as an indication of future performance. After being profitable in 2004 and 2005, we were unprofitable in 2006, 2007 and 2008 primarily due in part to increased stock-based compensation expense and litigation costs, which could affect our ability to achieve and maintain profitability in the future. Our adoption of SFAS 123R in 2006 substantially increased the amount of share-based compensation expense we record and has had a significant impact on our results of operations. After being profitable in 2004 and 2005, we were unprofitable in 2006, 2007 and 2008 partially due to an increase in our share-based compensation expense which increased from $0.1 million in 2005 to $9.2 million in 2006 and further increased to $18.9 million in 2007. For the year ended December 31, 2008 our share-based compensation expense was $18.1 million. This significant increase in share-based compensation expense reflects an increase in the level of option and restricted stock grants. Our unrecognized share-based compensation expense totaled $39.0 million at December 31, 2008, of which we expect to amortize $17.2 million during 2009, $13.7 million in 2010 and the remainder thereafter based upon the scheduled vesting of the options outstanding at that time. We further expect 23 Table of Contents our share-based compensation expense to decrease in 2009 and potentially to increase thereafter as we grant additional options or restricted stock awards. The increased share-based compensation expense could adversely affect our ability to achieve and maintain profitability in the future. In 2006, we were sued by Akamai and MIT alleging infringement of certain patents. In December 2007, we were sued by Level 3 Communications alleging infringement of certain patents; and in April 2008, we were sued by Two Way Media also alleging infringement of certain patents. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant costs associated with litigation. These costs were $3.1 million and $7.3 million in 2006 and 2007, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2008 we incurred $20.8 million in litigation costs. We expect these costs will continue to be significant during 2009. We generate our revenue almost entirely from the sale of CDN services, and the failure of the market for these services to expand as we expect or the reduction in spending on those services by our current or potential customers would seriously harm our business. While we offer our customers a number of services associated with our CDN, we generated the majority of our revenue in 2006, 2007 and 2008, from charging our customers for the content delivered on their behalf through our CDN. As we do not currently have other meaningful sources of revenue, we are subject to an elevated risk of reduced demand for these services. Furthermore, if the market for delivery of rich media content in particular does not continue to grow as we expect or grows more slowly, then we may fail to achieve a return on the significant investment we are making to prepare for this growth. Our success, therefore, depends on the continued and increasing reliance on the Internet for delivery of media content and our ability to cost-effectively deliver these services. Factors that may have a general tendency to limit or reduce the number of users relying on the Internet for media content or the number of providers making this content available online include a general decline in Internet usage, litigation involving our customers and third-party restrictions on online content, including copyright restrictions, digital rights management and restrictions in certain geographic regions, as well as a significant increase in the quality or fidelity of offline media content beyond that available online to the point where users prefer the offline experience. The influence of any of these factors may cause our current or potential customers to reduce their spending on CDN services, which would seriously harm our operating results and financial condition. Many of our significant current and potential customers are pursuing emerging or unproven business models which, if unsuccessful, could lead to a substantial decline in demand for our CDN services. Because the proliferation of broadband Internet connections and the subsequent monetization of content libraries for distribution to Internet users are relatively recent phenomena, many of our customers’ business models that center on the delivery of rich media and other content to users remain unproven. For example, social media companies have been among our top recent customers and are pursuing emerging strategies for monetizing the user content and traffic on their web sites. Our customers will not continue to purchase our CDN services if their investment in providing access to the media stored on or deliverable through our CDN does not generate a sufficient return on their investment. A reduction in spending on CDN services by our current or potential customers would seriously harm our operating results and financial condition. Our business will be adversely affected if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights from unauthorized use or infringement by third parties. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. These legal protections afford only limited protection, and we have only one currently issued patent. Monitoring infringement of our intellectual property rights is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights. We have applied for patent protection in a number of foreign countries, but the laws in these jurisdictions may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that any pending or future patent applications will be granted, that any future patent will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that rights granted under any patent that may be issued will provide competitive advantages to us. 24 Table of Contents Any unplanned interruption in the functioning of our network or services could lead to significant costs and disruptions that could reduce our revenue and harm our business, financial results and reputation. Our business is dependent on providing our customers with fast, efficient and reliable distribution of application and content delivery services over the Internet. Many of our customers depend primarily or exclusively on our services to operate their businesses. Consequently, any disruption of our services could have a material impact on our customers’ businesses. Our network or services could be disrupted by numerous events, including natural disasters, failure or refusal of our third-party network providers to provide the necessary capacity, failure of our software or CDN delivery infrastructure and power losses. In addition, we deploy our servers in approximately 70 third-party co-location facilities, and these third-party co-location providers could experience system outages or other disruptions that could constrain our ability to deliver our services. We may also experience disruptions caused by software viruses or other attacks by unauthorized users. While we have not experienced any significant, unplanned disruption of our services to date, our CDN may fail in the future. Despite our significant infrastructure investments, we may have insufficient communications and server capacity to address these or other disruptions, which could result in interruptions in our services. Any widespread interruption of the functioning of our CDN and related services for any reason would reduce our revenue and could harm our business and financial results. If such a widespread interruption occurred or if we failed to deliver content to users as expected during a high-profile media event, game release or other well-publicized circumstance, our reputation could be damaged severely. Moreover, any disruptions could undermine confidence in our services and cause us to lose customers or make it more difficult to attract new ones, either of which could harm our business and results of operations. We may have difficulty scaling and adapting our existing architecture to accommodate increased traffic and technology advances or changing business requirements, which could lead to the loss of customers and cause us to incur unexpected expenses to make network improvements. Our CDN services are highly complex and are designed to be deployed in and across numerous large and complex networks. Our network infrastructure has to perform well and be reliable for us to be successful. The greater the user traffic and the greater the complexity of our products and services, the more resources we will need to invest in additional infrastructure and support. Further, we have made significant investment in designing and implementing changes to our CDN architecture in order to implement our CDN services in a manner we believe does not infringe the claims of Akamai’s ‘703 patent as alleged in the February 2008 trial. We have spent and expect to continue to spend substantial amounts on the purchase and lease of equipment and data centers and the upgrade of our technology and network infrastructure to handle increased traffic over our network, implement changes to our CDN architecture and to roll out new products and services. This expansion is expensive and complex and could result in inefficiencies, operational failures or defects in our network and related software. If we do not implement such changes or expand successfully, or if we experience inefficiencies and operational failures, the quality of our products and services and user experience could decline. From time to time, we have needed to correct errors and defects in our software or in other aspects of our CDN. In the future, there may be additional errors and defects that may harm our ability to deliver our services, including errors and defects originating with third party networks or software on which we rely. These occurrences could damage our reputation and lead us to lose current and potential customers. We must continuously upgrade our infrastructure in order to keep pace with our customers’ evolving demands. Cost increases or the failure to accommodate increased traffic or these evolving business demands without disruption could harm our operating results and financial condition. Our operations are dependent in part upon communications capacity provided by third-party telecommunications providers. A material disruption of the communications capacity we have leased could harm our results of operations, reputation and customer relations. We lease private line capacity for our backbone from a third party provider, Global Crossing Ltd. Our contracts for private line capacity with Global Crossing generally have terms of three to four years. In January 25 Table of Contents 2009, we amended our agreement with Global Crossing to enhance the private line capacity for our backbone. The communications capacity we have leased may become unavailable for a variety of reasons, such as physical interruption, technical difficulties, contractual disputes, or the financial health of our third party provider. As it would be time consuming and expensive to identify and obtain alternative third-party connectivity, we are dependent on Global Crossing in the near term. Financial failure of Global Crossing could jeopardize utilization of the service fees pre-paid by us under our agreement with Global Crossing. Additionally, as we grow, we anticipate requiring greater private line capacity than we currently have in place. If we are unable to obtain such capacity on terms commercially acceptable to us or at all, our business and financial results would suffer. We may not be able to deploy on a timely basis enough network capacity to meet the needs of our customer base or effectively manage demand for our services. Our business depends on continued and unimpeded access to third-party controlled end-user access networks. Our content delivery services depend on our ability to access certain end-user access networks in order to complete the delivery of rich media and other online content to end-users. Some operators of these networks may take measures, such as the deployment of a variety of filters, that could degrade, disrupt or increase the cost of our or our customers’ access to certain of these end-user access networks by restricting or prohibiting the use of their networks to support or facilitate our services, or by charging increased fees to us, our customers or end-users in connection with our services. This or other types of interference could result in a loss of existing customers, increased costs and impairment of our ability to attract new customers, thereby harming our revenue and growth. In addition, the performance of our infrastructure depends in part on the direct connection of our CDN to a large number of end-user access networks, known as peering, which we achieve through mutually beneficial cooperation with these networks. If in the future a significant percentage of these network operators elected to no longer peer with our CDN, the performance of our infrastructure could be diminished and our business could suffer. If our ability to deliver media files in popular proprietary content formats was restricted or became cost-prohibitive, demand for our content delivery services could decline, we could lose customers and our financial results could suffer. Our business depends on our ability to deliver media content in all major formats. If our legal right or technical ability to store and deliver content in one or more popular proprietary content formats, such as Adobe Flash or Windows Media, was limited, our ability to serve our customers in these formats would be impaired and the demand for our content delivery services would decline by customers using these formats. Owners of propriety content formats may be able to block, restrict or impose fees or other costs on our use of such formats, which could lead to additional expenses for us and for our customers, or which could prevent our delivery of this type of content altogether. Such interference could result in a loss of existing customers, increased costs and impairment of our ability to attract new customers, which would harm our revenue, operating results and growth. If we are unable to retain our key employees and hire qualified sales and technical personnel, our ability to compete could be harmed. Our future success depends upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key technology, sales, marketing and support personnel who have critical industry experience and relationships that they rely on in implementing our business plan. In particular, we are dependent on the services of our Chief Executive Officer, Jeffrey W. Lunsford and also our Chief Technical Officer, Nathan F. Raciborski. Neither of these officers nor any of our other key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. In addition, we do not have “key person” life insurance policies covering any of our officers or other key employees, and we therefore have no way of mitigating our financial loss were we to lose their services. There is increasing competition for talented individuals with the specialized knowledge to deliver content delivery 26 Table of Contents services and this competition affects both our ability to retain key employees and hire new ones. The loss of the services of any of our key employees could disrupt our operations, delay the development and introduction of our services, and negatively impact our ability to sell our services. Our senior management team has limited experience working together as a group, and may not be able to manage our business effectively. Four members of our senior management team, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Jeffrey W. Lunsford, our Chief Financial Officer, Douglas S. Lindroth, our Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales, Marketing and Services, David M. Hatfield, and our Senior Vice President and Chief Legal Officer, Philip C. Maynard, have been hired since November 2006. As a result, our senior management team has limited experience working together as a group. This lack of shared experience could harm our senior management team’s ability to quickly and efficiently respond to problems and effectively manage our business. In July 2008, we announced that Matthew Hale our former Chief Financial Officer would be leaving the Company by December 31, 2008; and in October 2008 Mr. Lindroth, a member of our board of directors since February 2008, resigned from our board and succeeded Mr. Hale as our Chief Financial Officer. We face risks associated with international operations that could harm our business. We have operations, equipment and personnel in the United States, France, Germany, Japan, Singapore and the United Kingdom, and we currently maintain network equipment in Australia, Canada, Hong Kong, Ireland, Sweden, the Netherlands, Italy and Spain. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to expand our sales and support organizations internationally, as well as to further expand our international network infrastructure. We have limited experience in providing our services internationally and such expansion could require us to make significant expenditures, including the hiring of local employees, in advance of generating any revenue. As a consequence, we may fail to achieve profitable operations that will compensate our investment in international locations. We are subject to a number of risks associated with international business activities that may increase our costs, lengthen our sales cycle and require significant management attention. These risks include: • increased expenses associated with sales and marketing, deploying services and maintaining our infrastructure in foreign countries; • competition from local content delivery service providers, many of which are very well positioned within their local markets; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements resulting in unanticipated costs and delays; • interpretations of laws or regulations that would subject us to regulatory supervision or, in the alternative, require us to exit a country, which could have a negative impact on the quality of our services or our results of operations; • longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • corporate and personal liability for violations of local laws and regulations; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. Internet-related and other laws relating to taxation issues, privacy and consumer protection and liability for content distributed over our network, could harm our business. Laws and regulations that apply to communications and commerce conducted over the Internet are becoming more prevalent, both in the United States and internationally, and may impose additional burdens on companies conducting business online or providing Internet-related services such as ours. Increased regulation 27 Table of Contents could negatively affect our business directly, as well as the businesses of our customers, which could reduce their demand for our services. For example, tax authorities abroad may impose taxes on the Internet-related revenue we generate based on where our internationally deployed servers are located. In addition, domestic and international taxation laws are subject to change. Our services, or the businesses of our customers, may become subject to increased taxation, which could harm our financial results either directly or by forcing our customers to scale back their operations and use of our services in order to maintain their operations. In addition, the laws relating to the liability of private network operators for information carried on or disseminated through their networks are unsettled, both in the United States and abroad. Network operators have been sued in the past, sometimes successfully, based on the content of material disseminated through their networks. We may become subject to legal claims such as defamation, invasion of privacy and copyright infringement in connection with content stored on or distributed through our network. In addition, our reputation could suffer as a result of our perceived association with the type of content that some of our customers deliver. If we need to take costly measures to reduce our exposure to these risks, or are required to defend ourselves against such claims, our financial results could be negatively affected. If we are required to seek additional funding, such funding may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. We may need to obtain additional funding due to a number of factors beyond our control, including a shortfall in revenue, increased expenses, final adverse judgments in litigation matters, increase investment in capital equipment or the acquisition of significant businesses or technologies. We believe that our cash, plus cash from operations will be sufficient to fund our operations and proposed capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. However, we may need funding before such time. If we do need to obtain funding, it may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain sufficient funding, our business would be harmed. Even if we were able to find outside funding sources, we might be required to issue securities in a transaction that could be highly dilutive to our investors or we may be required to issue securities with greater rights than the securities we have outstanding today. We might also be required to take other actions that could lessen the value of our common stock, including borrowing money on terms that are not favorable to us. If we are unable to generate or raise capital that is sufficient to fund our operations, we may be required to curtail operations, reduce our capabilities or cease operations in certain jurisdictions or completely. Further, the availability of our current cash will be adversely affected if we are required to provide security for the recent jury verdict in the Akamai trial in connection with an appeal or a stay of injunction, should an appeal of a final judgment in favor of Akamai be required. Our business requires the continued development of effective business support systems to support our customer growth and related services. The growth of our business depends on our ability to continue to develop effective business support systems. This is a complicated undertaking requiring significant resources and expertise. Business support systems are needed for: • implementing customer orders for services; • delivering these services; and • timely billing for these services. Because our business plan provides for continued growth in the number of customers that we serve and services offered, there is a need to continue to develop our business support systems on a schedule sufficient to meet proposed service rollout dates. The failure to continue to develop effective business support systems could harm our ability to implement our business plans and meet our financial goals and objectives. 28 Table of Contents Changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause adverse, unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our operating results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of existing accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. For example, our adoption of SFAS 123R in 2006 has increased the amount of stock-based compensation expense we record. This, in turn, has impacted our results of operations for the periods since this adoption and has made it more difficult to evaluate our recent financial results relative to prior periods. We have incurred, and will continue to incur significantly increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to compliance initiatives. As a public company, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. These expenses include increased accounting, legal and other professional fees, insurance premiums, investor relations costs, and costs associated with compensating our independent directors. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Nasdaq Global Market, imposes additional requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. For example, the listing requirements of the Nasdaq Global Market require that we satisfy certain corporate governance requirements relating to independent directors, audit committees, distribution of annual and interim reports, stockholder meetings, stockholder approvals, solicitation of proxies, conflicts of interest, stockholder voting rights and codes of conduct. Our management and other personnel need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, these rules and regulations make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to identify and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. Failure to effectively expand our sales and marketing capabilities could harm our ability to increase our customer base and achieve broader market acceptance of our services. Increasing our customer base and achieving broader market acceptance of our services will depend to a significant extent on our ability to expand our sales and marketing operations. Historically, we have concentrated our sales force at our headquarters in Tempe, Arizona. However, we have recently begun building a field sales force to augment our sales efforts and to bring our sales personnel closer to our current and potential customers. Developing such a field sales force will be expensive and we have limited knowledge in developing and operating a widely dispersed sales force. As a result, we may not be successful in developing an effective sales force, which could cause our results of operations to suffer. We believe that there is significant competition for both inside and direct sales personnel with the sales skills and technical knowledge that we require. Our ability to achieve significant growth in revenue in the future will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training and retaining sufficient numbers of inside and direct sales personnel. We have expanded our sales and marketing personnel from a total of 13 at December 31, 2004 to 121 at December 31, 2007 and to 140 at December 31, 2008. New hires require significant training and, in most cases, take a significant period of time before they achieve full productivity. Our recent hires and planned hires may not become as productive as we would like, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the future in the markets where we do business. Our business will be seriously harmed if these expansion efforts do not generate a corresponding significant increase in revenue. 29 Table of Contents If the estimates we make, and the assumptions on which we rely, in preparing our financial statements prove inaccurate, our actual results may be adversely affected. Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments about, among other things, taxes, revenue recognition, share-based compensation costs, contingent obligations and doubtful accounts. These estimates and judgments affect the reported amounts of our assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, the amounts of charges accrued by us, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances and at the time they are made. If our estimates or the assumptions underlying them are not correct, we may need to accrue additional charges or reduce the value of assets that could adversely affect our results of operations, investors may lose confidence in our ability to manage our business and our stock price could decline. As part of our business strategy, we may acquire businesses or technologies and may have difficulty integrating these operations. We may seek to acquire businesses or technologies that are complementary to our business. Acquisitions involve a number of risks to our business, including the difficulty of integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired companies, the potential disruption of our ongoing business, the potential distraction of management, expenses related to the acquisition and potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses. Any inability to integrate operations or personnel in an efficient and timely manner could harm our results of operations. We do not have prior experience as a company in this complex process of acquiring and integrating businesses. If we are not successful in completing acquisitions that we may pursue in the future, we may be required to reevaluate our business strategy, and we may incur substantial expenses and devote significant management time and resources without a productive result. In addition, future acquisitions will require the use of our available cash or dilutive issuances of securities. Future acquisitions or attempted acquisitions could also harm our ability to achieve profitability. We may also experience significant turnover from the acquired operations or from our current operations as we integrate businesses. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile. The trading prices of our common stock and the securities of technology companies generally have been highly volatile. Factors affecting the trading price of our common stock will include: • variations in our operating results; • announcements of technological innovations, new services or service enhancements, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors; • commencement or resolution of, or our involvement in, litigation, particularly our current litigation with Akamai and MIT, Level 3 Communications, and our Securities Litigation matter; • recruitment or departure of key personnel; • changes in the estimates of our operating results or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that elect to follow our common stock; • developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights; • the gain or loss of significant customers; • market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers and the economy as a whole; and • adoption or modification of regulations, policies, procedures or programs applicable to our business. 30 Table of Contents In addition, if the market for technology stocks or the stock market in general experiences loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, operating results or financial condition. The trading price of our common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry even if these events do not directly affect us. We are currently subject to a securities class action lawsuit, the unfavorable outcome of which might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A putative class action lawsuit has been filed against us, certain of our officers and directors, and the lead underwriters of our recent initial public offering, alleging, among other things, securities laws violations. On March 17, 2008, we and the individual defendants moved to dismiss all of the plaintiffs’ claims. On August 8, 2008, the court granted the motion to dismiss, dismissing certain of plaintiffs’ claims under with prejudice and granting leave to amend other claims. Plaintiffs chose not to amend its claims, and on August 29, 2008 the court entered judgment in favor of us. On September 5, 2008 Plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal. While we intend to vigorously contest this lawsuit and any similar lawsuits filed against us in the future, we cannot determine the final outcome or resolution of these claims or when they might be resolved. In addition to the expense and burden incurred in defending this litigation and any damages that we may suffer, our management’s efforts and attention may be diverted from the ordinary business operations in order to address these claims. If the final resolution of this litigation is unfavorable to us, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected if our existing insurance coverage is unavailable or inadequate to resolve the matter. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue an adverse or misleading opinion regarding our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If any of the analysts who cover us issue an adverse or misleading opinion regarding our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Insiders have substantial control over us and will be able to influence corporate matters. As of December 31, 2008, our directors and executive officers and their affiliates beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 53% of our outstanding common stock, including approximately 36% beneficially owned by investment entities affiliated with Goldman, Sachs & Co. As a result, these stockholders will be able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets. This concentration of ownership could limit other stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control over us. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company and may affect the trading price of our common stock. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws: • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt; 31 Table of Contents • provide for a classified board of directors, as a result of which the successors to the directors whose terms have expired will be elected to serve from the time of election and qualification until the third annual meeting following their election; • require that directors only be removed from office for cause and only upon a majority stockholder vote; • provide that vacancies on the board of directors, including newly created directorships, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office; • limit who may call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; and • require supermajority stockholder voting to effect certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 