Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below. These risks are not the only risks that we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected which could cause our actual operating results to differ materially from those indicated or suggested by forward-looking statements made in this annual report on Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. Risks Related to Our Business We are a party to several lawsuits, and an adverse outcome in any or all of those lawsuits is possible, which could have a significant, adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. If an injunction were entered against us it could force us to cease providing our CDN services. We are a defendant in three significant lawsuits, (see discussion in “Legal Proceedings” in Part I, Item 3 of this annual report on Form 10-K). In each case we currently have favorable rulings, but we cannot provide any assurance that these favorable rulings won’t be overturned or reversed on appeal, or that the ultimate outcome of any of these lawsuits won’t be materially adverse to us. The expenses of defending these lawsuits and other lawsuits to which we may become a party, particularly fees paid to our lawyers and expert consultants, have been and will continue to be significant and will continue to adversely affect our operating results during the pendency of the lawsuits. This litigation will also continue to be a distraction to our management in operating our business. We expect that our litigation expenses will continue to be significant on a quarterly basis for the foreseeable future. In February 2008, a jury returned a verdict in a patent infringement lawsuit filed by Akamai Technologies, Inc., or Akamai, and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, or MIT, against us, finding that we infringed four claims of the patent at issue and rejecting our invalidity defenses. The jury awarded Akamai an aggregate of 18 Table of Contents approximately $45.5 million in lost profits, reasonable royalties and price erosion damages, plus pre-judgment interest estimated to be $2.6 million that we recorded in 2007. During 2008 we recorded an additional provision of approximately $17.5 million for potential additional infringement damages and interest. The court conducted a bench trial in November 2008, regarding our equitable defenses; and we filed a motion for reconsideration of the court’s earlier denial of our motion for Judgment as a Matter of Law (JMOL). Our motion for JMOL was based largely upon a clarification in the standard for a finding of joint infringement articulated by the Federal Circuit in the case of Muniauction, Inc. v. Thomson Corp. (the Muniauction Case), released after the court denied our initial motion for JMOL. On April 24, 2009 the court issued its order and memorandum setting aside the adverse jury verdict and ruling that we do not infringe Akamai’s ‘703 patent and that we are entitled to judgment as a matter of law. Based upon the court’s April 24, 2009 order we have reversed the provision for litigation relating to this matter as we no longer believe that payment of any amounts represented by the litigation provision is probable. Although the court has entered judgment in our favor and we believe the ruling of the court is correct, Akamai has appealed the judgment and we cannot provide any assurance that the lawsuit ultimately will be resolved in our favor. An adverse ruling could seriously impact our ability to conduct our business and to offer our products and services to our customers. A permanent injunction could prevent us from operating our CDN to deliver certain types of traffic, which could impact the viability of our business. Any adverse ruling, in turn, would harm our revenue, market share, reputation, liquidity and overall financial position. In January 2009, in a patent infringement lawsuit filed against us by Level 3 Communications LLC, or Level 3, a jury returned a verdict finding that we did not infringe any of the claims of the patents at issue in that case. The court denied Level 3’s subsequent motion for JMOL or alternatively for a new trial, and entered judgment in our favor. Level 3 has appealed the judgment. Although we believe the jury verdict and the judgment in this matter are correct, we cannot provide any assurance at this time that the lawsuit ultimately will be resolved in our favor. An adverse ruling could seriously impact our ability to conduct our business and to offer our products and services to our customers. A permanent injunction could prevent us from operating our CDN to deliver certain types of traffic, which could impact the viability of our business. Any adverse ruling, in turn, would harm our revenue, market share, reputation, liquidity and overall financial position. In August 2007, we, certain of our officers and directors, and the firms that served as the lead underwriters in our initial public offering were named as defendants in several purported class action lawsuits. These lawsuits have been consolidated into a single lawsuit in United States District Court for the District of Arizona. The consolidated complaint asserts causes of action under Sections 11, 12 and 15 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, on behalf of a professed class consisting of all those who were allegedly damaged as a result of acquiring our common stock in our initial public offering (IPO) between June 8, 2007 and August 8, 2007. The complaint seeks compensatory damages and plaintiffs’ costs and expenses in the litigation. The complaint alleges, among other things, that we omitted and/or misstated certain facts concerning the seasonality of our business and the loss of revenue with respect to certain customers. On March 17, 2008, we and the individual defendants moved to dismiss all of the plaintiffs’ claims, and a hearing was held on this motion on June 16, 2008. On August 8, 2008, the court granted the motion to dismiss, dismissing plaintiffs’ claims under Section 12 with prejudice and granting leave to amend the claims under Sections 11 and 15. Plaintiffs chose not to amend the claims under Sections 11 and 15, and on August 29, 2008 the court entered judgment in favor of us. On September 5, 2008, plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal, and appellate briefs were filed by the parties in January and February 2009. We do have in place directors and officers liability insurance and notice of this matter has been given to the insurance carriers. The insurance has reimbursed certain of the expenses incurred by us in defending this action. In November 2009 the parties entered into a Memorandum of Understanding to settle this lawsuit for an amount well within the coverage limits of the primary carrier of our directors and officers liability insurance, and we are seeking court approval to finalize the settlement. Although we believe that we and the individual defendants have meritorious defenses to the claims made in the complaint, there can be no assurance at this time that the settlement will be approved by the court, or otherwise completed. If we receive an adverse ruling with respect to the approval of the settlement in this case and we subsequently receive an adverse judgment which 19 Table of Contents exceeds the amount of our directors and officers liability insurance coverage or that insurance is not available to satisfy the judgment, such a ruling could harm our liquidity and overall financial position. We may need to defend our intellectual property and processes against patent or copyright infringement claims, which would cause us to incur substantial costs and threaten our ability to do business. Companies, organizations or individuals, including our competitors, may hold or obtain patents or other proprietary rights that would prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or sell our services or develop new services, which could make it more difficult for us to operate our business. From time to time, we may receive inquiries from holders of patents inquiring whether we infringe their proprietary rights. Companies holding Internet-related patents or other intellectual property rights are increasingly bringing suits alleging infringement of such rights or otherwise asserting their rights and seeking licenses. Any litigation or claims, whether or not valid, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. See “Legal Proceeding” in Part I, Item 3 of this annual report on Form 10-K. In addition, if we are determined to have infringed upon a third party’s intellectual property rights, we may be required to do one or more of the following: • cease selling, incorporating or using products or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • pay substantial damages; • obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right, which license may or may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; or • redesign products or services. If we are forced to take any of these actions, our business may be seriously harmed. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us and our failure or inability to obtain a license to the infringed technology, our business and operating results could be harmed. We currently face competition from established competitors and may face competition from others in the future. We compete in markets that are intensely competitive, rapidly changing and characterized by constantly declining prices and vendors offering a wide range of content delivery solutions. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience increased competition, and particularly aggressive price competition. Many of our current competitors, as well as a number of our potential competitors, have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, broader customer relationships and industry alliances and substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. As a consequence of the competitive dynamics in our market we have experienced reductions in our prices, which in turn adversely affect our revenue, gross margin and operating results. Our primary competitors include content delivery service providers such as Akamai, Level 3 Communications, AT&T, CDNetworks and Internap Network Services Corporation, which acquired VitalStream. Also, as a result of the growth of the content delivery market, a number of companies have recently entered or are currently attempting to enter our market, either directly or indirectly, some of which may become significant competitors in the future. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Given the relative ease by which customers typically can switch among CDN providers, differentiated offerings or pricing by competitors could lead to a rapid loss of customers. Some of our current or potential competitors may bundle their offerings with other services, software or hardware in a manner that may discourage content providers from purchasing the services that we offer. In addition, as we expand internationally, we face different market characteristics and competition with local content delivery service providers, many of which are very well positioned within their local markets. Increased competition could result in price reductions and revenue shortfalls, loss of customers and loss of market share, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents If we fail to manage future growth effectively, we may not be able to market and sell our services successfully. Our future operating results depend to a large extent on our ability to manage expansion and growth successfully. Risks that we face in undertaking this expansion include: training new sales personnel to become productive and generate revenue; forecasting revenue; controlling expenses and investments in anticipation of expanded operations; implementing and enhancing our content delivery network, or CDN, and administrative infrastructure, systems and processes; addressing new markets; and expanding international operations. A failure to manage our growth effectively could materially and adversely affect our ability to market and sell our products and services. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements could be impaired, which could adversely affect our operating results, our ability to operate our business and investors’ views of us. We must ensure that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place so that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis. We are required to spend considerable effort on establishing and maintaining our internal controls, which is costly and time-consuming and needs to be re-evaluated frequently. We have very limited experience in designing and testing our internal controls. For example, during the third quarter of 2007, we discovered material weaknesses in our system of internal controls over our revenue recognition and stock-based compensation processes that required us to restate our previously reported consolidated financial statements for the three-and nine-months ended September 30, 2006, the three-months and year ended December 31, 2006, the three-months ended March 31, 2007, and the three-and-six months ended June 30, 2007. We have only operated as a public company since June 2007 and we will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses as we comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Nasdaq Stock Market’s Global Market. These rules impose various requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices, increased reporting of compensation arrangements and other requirements. Our management and other personnel will continue to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we include in our annual report our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our audited financial statements as of the end of each fiscal year. Furthermore, our independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP, (E&Y), is required to report on whether it believes we maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of the end of the year. We successfully completed our assessment and obtained E&Y’s attestation as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our continued compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial expense and expend significant management time on compliance related issues. We currently do not have an internal audit group and use an international accounting firm to assist us with our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. In future years, if we fail to timely complete this assessment, or if E&Y cannot timely attest, there may be a loss of public confidence in our internal controls, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to regulatory sanctions or investigations by the Nasdaq Stock Market’s Global Market, the Securities and Exchange Commission or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. In addition, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to timely meet our regulatory reporting obligations. 21 Table of Contents We may lose customers if they elect to develop content delivery solutions internally. Our customers and potential customers may decide to develop their own content delivery solutions rather than outsource these solutions to CDN services providers like us. This is particularly true as our customers increase their operations and begin expending greater resources on delivering their content using third party solutions. If we fail to offer CDN services that are competitive to in-sourced solutions, we may lose additional customers or fail to attract customers that may consider pursuing this in-sourced approach, and our business and financial results would suffer. We may lose customers if they are unable to build business models that effectively monetize delivery of their content. Some of our customers will not be successful in selling advertising or otherwise monetizing the content we deliver on their behalf and consequently may not be successful in creating a profitable business model. This will result in some of our customers discontinuing their Internet or web-based business operations and discontinuing use of our services and products. Further, weakness and related uncertainty in the global financial markets and economy — which has included, among other things, significant reductions in available capital and liquidity from banks and other providers of credit, substantial reductions and/or fluctuations in equity and currency values worldwide and concerns that the worldwide economy may be in a prolonged recessionary period — may materially adversely impact our customers’ access to capital or willingness to spend capital on our services or in some cases, ultimately cause the customer to file for protection from creditors under applicable insolvency or bankruptcy laws or simply go out of business. This uncertainty may also impact our customers’ levels of cash liquidity, which could affect their ability or willingness to timely pay for services that they will order or have already ordered from us. From time to time we discontinue service to customers for non-payment of services. We expect further customers may discontinue operations or not be willing or able to pay for services that they have ordered from us. Further loss of customers may adversely affect our financial results. Rapidly evolving technologies or new business models could cause demand for our CDN services to decline or could cause these services to become obsolete. Customers or third parties may develop technological or business model innovations that address content delivery requirements in a manner that is, or is perceived to be, equivalent or superior to our CDN services. If competitors introduce new products or services that compete with or surpass the quality or the price/performance of our services, we may be unable to renew our agreements with existing customers or attract new customers at the prices and levels that allow us to generate attractive rates of return on our investment. For example, one or more third parties might develop improvements to current peer-to-peer technology, which is a technology that relies upon the computing power and bandwidth of its participants, such that this technological approach is better able to deliver content in a way that is competitive to our CDN services, or even makes CDN services obsolete. We may not anticipate such developments and may be unable to adequately compete with these potential solutions. In addition, our customers’ business models may change in ways that we do not anticipate and these changes could reduce or eliminate our customers’ needs for CDN services. If this occurred, we could lose customers or potential customers, and our business and financial results would suffer. As a result of these or similar potential developments, in the future it is possible that competitive dynamics in our market may require us to reduce our prices, which could harm our revenue, gross margin and operating results. If we are unable to sell our services at acceptable prices relative to our costs, our revenue and gross margins will decrease, and our business and financial results will suffer. Prices for content delivery services have fallen in recent years and are likely to fall further in the future. We have invested significant amounts in purchasing capital equipment to increase the capacity of our content delivery services. For example, in 2006, 2007 and 2008 we invested $40.6 million, $22.3 million and $17.4 million, respectively, in capital expenditures primarily for computer equipment associated with the build-out and 22 Table of Contents expansion of our CDN. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we invested $20.4 million. Our investments in our infrastructure are based upon our assumptions regarding future demand and also prices that we will be able to charge for our services. These assumptions may prove to be wrong. If the price that we are able to charge customers to deliver their content falls to a greater extent than we anticipate, if we over-estimate future demand for our services or if our costs to deliver our services do not fall commensurate with any future price declines, we may not be able to achieve acceptable rates of return on our infrastructure investments and our gross profit and results of operations may suffer dramatically. During 2010, as we further expand our CDN and begin to refresh our network equipment, we expect our capital expenditures to be approximately 15% to 17% of total revenue. As a consequence, we are dependent on significant future growth in demand for our services to provide the necessary gross profit to pay these additional expenses. If we fail to generate significant additional demand for our services, our results of operations will suffer and we may fail to achieve planned or expected financial results. There are numerous factors that could, alone or in combination with other factors, impede our ability to increase revenue, moderate expenses or maintain gross margins, including: • failure to increase sales of our core services; • increases in electricity, bandwidth and rack space costs or other operating expenses, and failure to achieve decreases in these costs and expenses relative to decreases in the prices we can charge for our services and products; • inability to maintain our prices relative to our costs; • failure of our current and planned services and software to operate as expected; • loss of any significant customers or loss of existing customers at a rate greater than our increase in new customers or our sales to existing customers; • failure to increase sales of our services to current customers as a result of their ability to reduce their monthly usage of our services to their minimum monthly contractual commitment; • failure of a significant number of customers to pay our fees on a timely basis or at all or failure to continue to purchase our services in accordance with their contractual commitments; and • inability to attract high quality customers to purchase and implement our current and planned services. If we are unable to develop new services and enhancements to existing services or fail to predict and respond to emerging technological trends and customers’ changing needs, our operating results may suffer. The market for our CDN services is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and new product and service introductions. Our operating results depend on our ability to develop and introduce new services into existing and emerging markets. The process of developing new technologies is complex and uncertain. We must commit significant resources to developing new services or enhancements to our existing services before knowing whether our investments will result in services the market will accept. Furthermore, we may not execute successfully our technology initiatives because of errors in planning or timing, technical hurdles that we fail to overcome in a timely fashion, misunderstandings about market demand or a lack of appropriate resources. As prices for CDN continue to fall, we will increasingly rely on new product offerings and other value added services to maintain or increase our gross margins. Failures in execution or market acceptance of new services we introduce could result in competitors providing those solutions before we do, which could lead to loss of market share, revenue and earnings. We depend on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenue in any fiscal period, and the loss of, or a significant shortfall in demand from these customers could significantly harm our results of operations. During any given fiscal period, a relatively small number of customers typically account for a significant percentage of our revenue. For example, in 2009, sales to our top 10 customers, in terms of revenue, accounted 23 Table of Contents for approximately 36% of our total revenue. During 2008 and 2007, sales to our top 10 customers, in terms of revenue, accounted for approximately 38% and 45%, respectively of our total revenue. During 2009, 2008 and 2007 one of these top 10 customers, Microsoft, represented approximately 14%, 18% and 12%, respectively of our total revenue for that period. Microsoft, and other large customers, may not continue to be as significant going forward as they have been in the past. In the past, the customers that comprised our top 10 customers have continually changed, and we also have experienced significant fluctuations in our individual customers’ usage of our services. As a consequence, we may not be able to adjust our expenses in the short term to address the unanticipated loss of a large customer during any particular period. As such, we may experience significant, unanticipated fluctuations in our operating results which may cause us to not meet our expectations or those of stock market analysts, which could cause our stock price to decline. If we are unable to attract new customers or to retain our existing customers, our revenue could be lower than expected and our operating results may suffer. In addition to adding new customers, to increase our revenue, we must sell additional services to existing customers and encourage existing customers to increase their usage levels. If our existing and prospective customers do not perceive our services to be of sufficiently high value and quality, we may not be able to retain our current customers or attract new customers. We sell our services pursuant to service agreements that generally include some form of financial minimum commitment. Our customers have no obligation to renew their contracts for our services after the expiration of their initial commitment, and these service agreements may not be renewed at the same or higher level of service, if at all. Moreover, under some circumstances, some of our customers have the right to cancel their service agreements prior to the expiration of the terms of their agreements. This fact, in addition to the changing competitive landscape in our market, means that we cannot accurately predict future customer renewal rates or usage rates. Our customers’ renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including: • their satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our services; • the prices of our services; • the prices of services offered by our competitors; • discontinuation by our customers of their Internet or web-based content distribution business; • mergers and acquisitions affecting our customer base; and • reductions in our customers’ spending levels. If our customers do not renew their service agreements with us or if they renew on less favorable terms, our revenue may decline and our business will suffer. Similarly, our customer agreements often provide for minimum commitments that are often significantly below our customers’ historical usage levels. Consequently, even if we have agreements with our customers to use our services, these customers could significantly curtail their usage without incurring any penalties under our agreements. In this event, our revenue would be lower than expected and our operating results could suffer. It also is an important component of our growth strategy to market our CDN services to industries, such as enterprise and the government. As an organization, we do not have significant experience in selling our services into these markets. We have only recently begun a number of these initiatives, and our ability to successfully sell our services into these markets to a meaningful extent remains unproven. If we are unsuccessful in such efforts, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. Our results of operations may fluctuate in the future. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If our results of operations fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the price of our 24 Table of Contents common stock could decline substantially. In addition to the effects of other risks discussed in this section, fluctuations in our results of operations may be due to a number of factors, including: • our ability to increase sales to existing customers and attract new customers to our CDN services; • the addition or loss of large customers, or significant variation in their use of our CDN services; • costs associated with current or future intellectual property lawsuits and other lawsuits; • service outages or security breaches; • the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the maintenance and expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; • the timing and success of new product and service introductions by us or our competitors; • the occurrence of significant events in a particular period that result in an increase in the use of our CDN services, such as a major media event or a customer’s online release of a new or updated video game; • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; • the timing of recognizing revenue; • limitations of the capacity of our content delivery network and related systems; • the timing of costs related to the development or acquisition of technologies, services or businesses; • general economic, industry and market conditions (such as the fluctuations experienced in the stock and credit markets during the recent deterioration of global economic conditions) and those conditions specific to Internet usage; • limitations on usage imposed by our customers in order to limit their online expenses; and • geopolitical events such as war, threat of war or terrorist actions. We believe that our revenue and results of operations may vary significantly in the future and that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. You should not rely on the results of one period as an indication of future performance. After being profitable in 2004 and 2005, we were unprofitable in 2006, 2007 and 2008 primarily due to increased stock-based compensation expense and litigation costs, which could affect our ability to achieve and maintain profitability in the future. Our adoption of ASC 718 (formerly FAS 123R) in 2006 substantially increased the amount of share-based compensation expense we record and has had a significant impact on our results of operations. After being profitable in 2004 and 2005, we were unprofitable in 2006, 2007 and 2008 partially due to an increase in our share-based compensation expense which increased from $0.1 million in 2005 to $9.2 million in 2006, to $18.9 million in 2007 to $18.1 million in 2008, and to $17.5 million in 2009. This increase in share-based compensation expense reflects an increase in the level of stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units (RSUs) grants. Our unrecognized share-based compensation expense totaled $26.1 million at December 31, 2009, of which we expect to amortize $14.2 million during 2010, $8.2 million in 2011 and the remainder thereafter based upon the scheduled vesting of the options, restricted stock and RSUs outstanding at that time. We further expect our share-based compensation expense to decrease in 2010 from 2008 and 2009 levels, and potentially to increase thereafter as we grant additional options or restricted stock awards including options and restricted stock units to be granted to EyeWonder continuing employees in connection with the merger. The increased share-based compensation expense could adversely affect our ability to achieve and maintain profitability in the future. In 2006, we were sued by Akamai and MIT alleging infringement of certain patents. In December 2007, we were sued by Level 3 Communications alleging infringement of certain patents. We have 25 Table of Contents incurred, and will continue to incur, significant costs associated with litigation. These costs were $3.1 million, $7.3 million and $20.8 million, respectively, in 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we incurred $5.4 million in litigation costs. We expect these costs will continue to be significant during 2010. We generate our revenue almost entirely from the sale of CDN services, and the failure of the market for these services to expand as we expect or the reduction in spending on those services by our current or potential customers would seriously harm our business. While we offer our customers a number of services associated with our CDN, we generated the majority of our revenue in 2007, 2008 and 2009, from charging our customers for the content delivered on their behalf through our CDN. As we do not currently have other meaningful sources of revenue, we are subject to an elevated risk of reduced demand for these services. Furthermore, if the market for delivery of rich media content in particular does not continue to grow as we expect or grows more slowly, then we may fail to achieve a return on the significant investment we are making to prepare for this growth. Our success, therefore, depends on the continued and increasing reliance on the Internet for delivery of media content and our ability to cost-effectively deliver these services. Factors that may have a general tendency to limit or reduce the number of users relying on the Internet for media content or the number of providers making this content available online include a general decline in Internet usage, litigation involving our customers and third party restrictions on online content, including copyright restrictions, digital rights management and restrictions in certain geographic regions, as well as a significant increase in the quality or fidelity of offline media content beyond that available online to the point where users prefer the offline experience. The influence of any of these factors may cause our current or potential customers to reduce their spending on CDN services, which would seriously harm our operating results and financial condition. Many of our significant current and potential customers are pursuing emerging or unproven business models which, if unsuccessful, could lead to a substantial decline in demand for our CDN services. Because the proliferation of broadband Internet connections and the subsequent monetization of content libraries for distribution to Internet users are relatively recent phenomena, many of our customers’ business models that center on the delivery of rich media and other content to users remain unproven. For example, social media companies have been among our top recent customers and are pursuing emerging strategies for monetizing the user content and traffic on their web sites. Our customers will not continue to purchase our CDN services if their investment in providing access to the media stored on or deliverable through our CDN does not generate a sufficient return on their investment. A reduction in spending on CDN services by our current or potential customers would seriously harm our operating results and financial condition. Our business will be adversely affected if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights from unauthorized use or infringement by third parties. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. These legal protections afford only limited protection, and we have only one currently issued patent. Monitoring infringement of our intellectual property rights is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights. We have applied for patent protection in a number of foreign countries, but the laws in these jurisdictions may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that any pending or future patent applications will be granted, that any future patent will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that rights granted under any patent that may be issued will provide competitive advantages to us. Any unplanned interruption in the functioning of our network or services could lead to significant costs and disruptions that could reduce our revenue and harm our business, financial results and reputation. Our business is dependent on providing our customers with fast, efficient and reliable distribution of application and content delivery services over the Internet. Many of our customers depend primarily or 26 Table of Contents exclusively on our services to operate their businesses. Consequently, any disruption of our services could have a material impact on our customers’ businesses. Our network or services could be disrupted by numerous events, including natural disasters, failure or refusal of our third party network providers to provide the necessary capacity, failure of our software or CDN delivery infrastructure and power losses. In addition, we deploy our servers in approximately 75 third party co-location facilities, and these third-party co-location providers could experience system outages or other disruptions that could constrain our ability to deliver our services. We may also experience disruptions caused by software viruses or other attacks by unauthorized users. While we have not experienced any significant, unplanned disruption of our services to date, our CDN may fail in the future. Despite our significant infrastructure investments, we may have insufficient communications and server capacity to address these or other disruptions, which could result in interruptions in our services. Any widespread interruption of the functioning of our CDN and related services for any reason would reduce our revenue and could harm our business and financial results. If such a widespread interruption occurred or if we failed to deliver content to users as expected during a high-profile media event, game release or other well-publicized circumstance, our reputation could be damaged severely. Moreover, any disruptions could undermine confidence in our services and cause us to lose customers or make it more difficult to attract new ones, either of which could harm our business and results of operations. We may have difficulty scaling and adapting our existing architecture to accommodate increased traffic and technology advances or changing business requirements, which could lead to the loss of customers and cause us to incur unexpected expenses to make network improvements. Our CDN services are highly complex and are designed to be deployed in and across numerous large and complex networks. Our network infrastructure has to perform well and be reliable for us to be successful. The greater the user traffic and the greater the complexity of our products and services, the more resources we will need to invest in additional infrastructure and support. Further, as a result of the adverse jury verdict in February 2008 in the Akamai Technologies, Inc. v. Limelight Networks, Inc. lawsuit, which verdict was overturned by the court’s April 24, 2009 order granting our motion for judgment as a matter of law, we made significant investment in designing and implementing changes to our CDN architecture in order to implement our CDN services in a manner we believe does not infringe the claims of Akamai’s ‘703 patent as alleged in the February 2008 trial. We have spent and expect to continue to spend substantial amounts on the purchase and lease of equipment and data centers and the upgrade of our technology and network infrastructure to handle increased traffic over our network, implement changes to our CDN architecture and to roll out new products and services. This expansion is expensive and complex and could result in inefficiencies, operational failures or defects in our network and related software. If we do not implement such changes or expand successfully, or if we experience inefficiencies and operational failures, the quality of our products and services and user experience could decline. From time to time, we have needed to correct errors and defects in our software or in other aspects of our CDN. In the future, there may be additional errors and defects that may harm our ability to deliver our services, including errors and defects originating with third party networks or software on which we rely. These occurrences could damage our reputation and lead us to lose current and potential customers. We must continuously upgrade our infrastructure in order to keep pace with our customers’ evolving demands. Cost increases or the failure to accommodate increased traffic or these evolving business demands without disruption could harm our operating results and financial condition. Our operations are dependent in part upon communications capacity provided by third party telecommunications providers. A material disruption of the communications capacity we have leased could harm our results of operations, reputation and customer relations. We lease private line capacity for our backbone from a third party provider, Global Crossing Ltd. Our contracts for private line capacity with Global Crossing generally have terms of three to four years. In January and September 2009, we amended our agreement with Global Crossing to enhance the private line capacity for our backbone. The communications capacity we have leased may become unavailable for a variety of reasons, 27 Table of Contents such as physical interruption, technical difficulties, contractual disputes, or the financial health of our third party provider. As it would be time consuming and expensive to identify and obtain alternative third party connectivity, we are dependent on Global Crossing in the near term. Financial failure of Global Crossing could jeopardize utilization of the service fees pre-paid by us under our agreement with Global Crossing. Additionally, as we grow, we anticipate requiring greater private line capacity than we currently have in place. If we are unable to obtain such capacity on terms commercially acceptable to us or at all, our business and financial results would suffer. We may not be able to deploy on a timely basis enough network capacity to meet the needs of our customer base or effectively manage demand for our services. Our business depends on continued and unimpeded access to third party controlled end-user access networks. Our content delivery services depend on our ability to access certain end-user access networks in order to complete the delivery of rich media and other online content to end-users. Some operators of these networks may take measures, such as the deployment of a variety of filters, that could degrade, disrupt or increase the cost of our or our customers’ access to certain of these end-user access networks by restricting or prohibiting the use of their networks to support or facilitate our services, or by charging increased fees to us, our customers or end-users in connection with our services. This or other types of interference could result in a loss of existing customers, increased costs and impairment of our ability to attract new customers, thereby harming our revenue and growth. In addition, the performance of our infrastructure depends in part on the direct connection of our CDN to a large number of end-user access networks, known as peering, which we achieve through mutually beneficial cooperation with these networks. If, in the future, a significant percentage of these network operators elected to no longer peer with our CDN, the performance of our infrastructure could be diminished and our business could suffer. If our ability to deliver media files in popular proprietary content formats was restricted or became cost-prohibitive, demand for our content delivery services could decline, we could lose customers and our financial results could suffer. Our business depends on our ability to deliver media content in all major formats. If our legal right or technical ability to store and deliver content in one or more popular proprietary content formats, such as Adobe Flash or Windows Media, was limited, our ability to serve our customers in these formats would be impaired and the demand for our content delivery services would decline by customers using these formats. Owners of propriety content formats may be able to block, restrict or impose fees or other costs on our use of such formats, which could lead to additional expenses for us and for our customers, or which could prevent our delivery of this type of content altogether. Such interference could result in a loss of existing customers, increased costs and impairment of our ability to attract new customers, which would harm our revenue, operating results and growth. As part of our business strategy, we may acquire businesses or technologies and may have difficulty integrating these operations. We may seek to acquire businesses or technologies that are complementary to our business. For example, in May 2009 we acquired substantially all of the assets of Kiptronic Inc., a developer of mobility and monetization solutions for content publishers, in December 2009 we announced the pending acquisition of EyeWonder, Inc., a provider of interactive digital advertising products and services to advertisers, and in January 2010 we signed a stock purchase agreement in connection with the purchase of a small software company located in Germany. Acquisitions involve a number of risks to our business, including the difficulty of integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired companies, the potential disruption of our ongoing business, the potential distraction of management, expenses related to the acquisition and potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses. Any inability to integrate operations or personnel in an efficient and timely manner could harm our results of operations. We have little prior experience as a company in this complex process of acquiring and 28 Table of Contents integrating businesses. If we are not successful in completing acquisitions that we may pursue in the future, we may be required to reevaluate our business strategy, and we may incur substantial expenses and devote significant management time and resources without a productive result. In addition, future acquisitions will require the use of our available cash or dilutive issuances of securities. Future acquisitions or attempted acquisitions could also harm our ability to achieve profitability. We may also experience significant turnover from the acquired operations or from our current operations as we integrate businesses. If we are unable to retain our key employees and hire qualified sales and technical personnel, our ability to compete could be harmed. Our future success depends upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key technology, sales, marketing and support personnel who have critical industry experience and relationships that they rely on in implementing our business plan. In particular, we are dependent on the services of our Chief Executive Officer, Jeffrey W. Lunsford and also our Chief Technical Officer, Nathan F. Raciborski. Neither of these officers nor any of our other key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. There is increasing competition for talented individuals with the specialized knowledge to deliver content delivery services and this competition affects both our ability to retain key employees and hire new ones. The loss of the services of any of our key employees could disrupt our operations, delay the development and introduction of our services, and negatively impact our ability to sell our services. We face risks associated with international operations that could harm our business. We have operations, equipment and personnel in the United States, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Japan, Singapore and the United Kingdom, and we currently maintain network equipment in Australia, Canada, Hong Kong, Ireland, South Korea, Sweden, Italy and Spain. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to expand our sales and support organizations internationally, as well as to further expand our international network infrastructure. We have limited experience in providing our services internationally and such expansion could require us to make significant expenditures, including the hiring of local employees, in advance of generating any revenue. As a consequence, we may fail to achieve profitable operations that will compensate our investment in international locations. We are subject to a number of risks associated with international business activities that may increase our costs, lengthen our sales cycle and require significant management attention. These risks include: • increased expenses associated with sales and marketing, deploying services and maintaining our infrastructure in foreign countries; • competition from local content delivery service providers, many of which are very well positioned within their local markets; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements preventing us from operating our CDN or resulting in unanticipated costs and delays; • interpretations of laws or regulations that would subject us to regulatory supervision or, in the alternative, require us to exit a country, which could have a negative impact on the quality of our services or our results of operations; • longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • corporate and personal liability for violations of local laws and regulations; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. 29 Table of Contents Internet-related and other laws relating to taxation issues, privacy and consumer protection and liability for content distributed over our network, could harm our business. Laws and regulations that apply to communications and commerce conducted over the Internet are becoming more prevalent, both in the United States and internationally, and may impose additional burdens on companies conducting business online or providing Internet-related services such as ours. Increased regulation could negatively affect our business directly, as well as the businesses of our customers, which could reduce their demand for our services. For example, tax authorities abroad may impose taxes on the Internet-related revenue we generate based on where our internationally deployed servers are located. In addition, domestic and international taxation laws are subject to change. Our services, or the businesses of our customers, may become subject to increased taxation, which could harm our financial results either directly or by forcing our customers to scale back their operations and use of our services in order to maintain their operations. In addition, the laws relating to the liability of private network operators for information carried on or disseminated through their networks are unsettled, both in the United States and abroad. Network operators have been sued in the past, sometimes successfully, based on the content of material disseminated through their networks. We may become subject to legal claims such as defamation, invasion of privacy and copyright infringement in connection with content stored on or distributed through our network. In addition, our reputation could suffer as a result of our perceived association with the type of content that some of our customers deliver. If we need to take costly measures to reduce our exposure to these risks, or are required to defend ourselves against such claims, our financial results could be negatively affected. Several other federal laws also could expose us to liability and impose significant additional costs on us. For example, the Digital Millennium Copyright Act has provisions that limit, but do not eliminate, our liability for the delivery of customer content that infringe copyrights or other rights, so long as we comply with the statutory requirements of the Act. In addition, the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act restricts the ability of online services to collect information from minors and the Protection of Children from Sexual Predators Act of 1998 requires online service providers to report evidence of violations of federal child pornography laws under certain circumstances. Compliance with these laws and regulations is complex and any failure on our part to comply with these regulations may subject us to additional liabilities. If we are required to seek additional funding, such funding may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. We may need to obtain additional funding due to a number of factors beyond our control, including a shortfall in revenue, increased expenses, final adverse judgments in litigation matters, increased investment in capital equipment or the acquisition of significant businesses or technologies. We believe that our cash, plus cash from operations will be sufficient to fund our operations and proposed capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. For example, we will use approximately $62 million in connection with the EyeWonder acquisition, which represents approximately 40% of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities classified as current as of December 31, 2009. We believe that our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities classified as current plus cash from operations will be sufficient to fund our operations and proposed capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. However, we may need funding before such time. If we do need to obtain funding, it may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain sufficient funding, our business would be harmed. Even if we were able to find outside funding sources, we might be required to issue securities in a transaction that could be highly dilutive to our investors or we may be required to issue securities with greater rights than the securities we have outstanding today. We might also be required to take other actions that could lessen the value of our common stock, including borrowing money on terms that are not favorable to us. If we are unable to generate or raise capital that is sufficient to fund our operations, we may be required to curtail operations, reduce our capabilities or cease operations in certain jurisdictions or completely. 30 Table of Contents Our business requires the continued development of effective business support systems to support our customer growth and related services. The growth of our business depends on our ability to continue to develop effective business support systems. This is a complicated undertaking requiring significant resources and expertise. Business support systems are needed for: • implementing customer orders for services; • delivering these services; and • timely billing for these services. Because our business plan provides for continued growth in the number of customers that we serve and services offered, there is a need to continue to develop our business support systems on a schedule sufficient to meet proposed service rollout dates. The failure to continue to develop effective business support systems could harm our ability to implement our business plans and meet our financial goals and objectives. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause adverse, unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our operating results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of existing accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. For example, our adoption of ASC 718 (formerly FAS123R) in 2006 has increased the amount of stock-based compensation expense we record. This, in turn, has impacted our results of operations for the periods since this adoption and has made it more difficult to evaluate our recent financial results relative to prior periods. We have incurred, and will continue to incur significantly increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to compliance initiatives. As a public company, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. These expenses include increased accounting, legal and other professional fees, insurance premiums, investor relations costs, and costs associated with compensating our independent directors. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Nasdaq Global Market, imposes additional requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. For example, the listing requirements of the Nasdaq Global Market require that we satisfy certain corporate governance requirements relating to independent directors, audit committees, distribution of annual and interim reports, stockholder meetings, stockholder approvals, solicitation of proxies, conflicts of interest, stockholder voting rights and codes of conduct. Our management and other personnel need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, these rules and regulations make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to identify and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. Failure to effectively expand our sales and marketing capabilities could harm our ability to increase our customer base and achieve broader market acceptance of our services. Increasing our customer base and achieving broader market acceptance of our services will depend to a significant extent on our ability to expand our sales and marketing operations. Historically, we have concentrated 31 Table of Contents our sales force at our headquarters in Tempe, Arizona. However, we have recently begun building a field sales force to augment our sales efforts and to bring our sales personnel closer to our current and potential customers. Developing such a field sales force has been and will continue to be expensive and we have limited knowledge in developing and operating a widely dispersed sales force. As a result, we may not be successful in developing an effective sales force, which could cause our results of operations to suffer. We believe that there is significant competition for both inside and direct sales personnel with the sales skills and technical knowledge that we require. Our ability to achieve significant growth in revenue in the future will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training and retaining sufficient numbers of inside and direct sales personnel. We have expanded our sales and marketing personnel from a total of 13 at December 31, 2004 to 121 at December 31, 2007, to 140 at December 31, 2009. New hires require significant training and, in most cases, take a significant period of time before they achieve full productivity. Our recent hires and planned hires, including EyeWonder personnel may not become as productive as we would like, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the future in the markets where we do business. Our business will be seriously harmed if these expansion efforts do not generate a corresponding significant increase in revenue. If the estimates we make, and the assumptions on which we rely, in preparing our financial statements prove inaccurate, our actual results may be adversely affected. Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments about, among other things, taxes, revenue recognition, share-based compensation costs, contingent obligations and doubtful accounts. These estimates and judgments affect the reported amounts of our assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, the amounts of charges accrued by us, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances and at the time they are made. If our estimates or the assumptions underlying them are not correct, we may need to accrue additional charges or reduce the value of assets that could adversely affect our results of operations, investors may lose confidence in our ability to manage our business and our stock price could decline. Risks Relating to the Acquisition of EyeWonder The number of shares of our common stock that EyeWonder securityholders will receive in the merger is not determined by the market price of our common stock. Declines in the market price of our common stock will reduce the value received by EyeWonder securityholders in the merger. Increases in the market price of our common stock will increase the value paid by us in consideration of the merger. On December 21, 2009, we entered into a merger agreement to acquire EyeWonder. Under the terms of the merger agreement, there is no mechanism to adjust the number of shares of our common stock that will be issued in exchange for shares of EyeWonder capital stock based on changes in the market price of our common stock. As a result, there will be no adjustment for changes in the market price of our common stock. The dollar value of our common stock received by EyeWonder securityholders upon completion of the merger will depend on the market value of our common stock at the time of completion of the merger. The price of our common stock has been volatile in the past and will likely continue to fluctuate in the future. A decline in the market price of our common stock will result in a decline in the value received by EyeWonder securityholders. An increase in the market price of our common stock will result in an increase in the value paid by us in consideration of the merger. The market price of our common stock may decline as a result of the merger. The market price of our common stock may decline as a result of the merger for a number of reasons, including: • the integration of EyeWonder by us may be unsuccessful; 32 Table of Contents • there may be sales of substantial amounts of our common stock after the merger; • we may not achieve the perceived benefits of the merger as rapidly as, or to the extent, anticipated by financial or industry analysts; or • the effect of the merger on our financial results may not be consistent with the expectations of financial or industry analysts. These factors are, to some extent, beyond our control. In addition, there will be a time period between the effective time of the merger and the time when EyeWonder securityholders actually receive book entry shares evidencing our common stock. Until book-entry shares are received, EyeWonder securityholders will not be able to sell their shares of our common stock in the open market and, thus, will not be able to avoid losses resulting from any decline in the market price of our common stock during this period. In addition, certain principal securityholders of EyeWonder have entered into a restriction agreement with us and may only dispose of their shares of our common stock acquired in the merger in accordance with the terms of the restriction agreement. Generally, the restrictions lapse ratably over a twelve month period after the closing of the merger, subject to certain exceptions. There may be sales of substantial amounts of our common stock after the merger, which could cause our stock price to fall. A substantially large number of shares of our common stock may be sold into the public market within a short period of time following the closing of the merger, primarily due to the substantial number of shares that will be available for resale by certain former stockholders of EyeWonder who are not parties to restriction agreements that restrict the timing of the resale of these shares. As a result, our stock price could fall. In addition, the sale of these shares could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional stock. The failure to operate and manage the combined company effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We will need to meet significant challenges to realize the expected benefits and synergies of the merger. These challenges include: • integrating the management teams, strategies, cultures, technologies and operations of the two companies; • retaining and assimilating the key personnel of each company; • retaining existing EyeWonder customers; and • retaining uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems. The accomplishment of these post-merger objectives will involve considerable risk, including: • the potential disruption of each company’s ongoing business and distraction of their respective management teams; • the possibility that our business culture and the business culture of EyeWonder will not be compatible; • the difficulty of incorporating acquired technology and rights into our operations; • unanticipated expenses related to the integration; • the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of any integration of new personnel; • potential unknown liabilities associated with the merger; and • managing the risks related to EyeWonder’s business that may continue to impact the business following the merger. 33 Table of Contents We and EyeWonder have operated and, until the completion of the merger, will continue to operate, independently. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of the technical skills and management expertise of key employees, the disruption of each company’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies due to possible cultural conflicts or differences of opinions on technical decisions and services. A failure to integrate the two organizations successfully could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. Even if we are able to integrate the EyeWonder business operations successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of synergies, cost savings, innovation and operational efficiencies that may be possible from this integration, and these benefits may not be achieved within a reasonable period of time. We expect to incur costs integrating the companies into a single business, and if such integration is not successful we may not realize the expected benefits of the merger. We expect to incur significant costs integrating our and EyeWonder’s operations, products and personnel. These costs may include costs for: • employee redeployment, relocation or severance; • conversion of information systems; • combining or coordinating research and development teams and processes; • combination or closures of facilities; and • amortization of intangibles. In addition, we expect to incur significant transaction costs in connection with the merger. We do not know whether we will be successful in these integration efforts or in consummating the merger and cannot assure you that we will realize the expected benefits of the merger. Failure to retain key employees would diminish the anticipated benefits of the merger. The success of the merger will depend in part on the retention of personnel critical to the business and operations of the combined company due to, for example, their technical skills or management expertise. Employees may experience uncertainty about their future role with EyeWonder and us until strategies with regard to these employees are announced or executed. Additionally, there is intense competition for qualified technical personnel in each company’s industry. If we are unable to retain personnel, including EyeWonder’s key management, technical and sales personnel who are critical to the successful integration and future operations of the companies, EyeWonder and we could face disruptions in their operations, loss of existing customers, loss of key information, expertise or know-how, and unanticipated additional recruitment and training costs. In addition, the loss of key personnel would diminish the anticipated benefits of the merger. We cannot provide assurance that we and EyeWonder will be able to attract, retain and integrate employees following the merger. Uncertainty regarding the merger may cause customers, suppliers or strategic partners to delay or defer decisions concerning us and EyeWonder and adversely affect each company’s ability to attract and retain key employees, which would adversely affect the future business and operations of us and EyeWonder. The merger will happen only if stated conditions are met, including the approval of the issuance of our common stock by our stockholders and approval of the merger proposal by EyeWonder’s stockholders, the receipt of regulatory approvals, and the absence of any material adverse effect in the business of EyeWonder. Many of the conditions are outside the control of us and EyeWonder, and both parties also have stated rights to terminate the merger agreement. Accordingly, there may be uncertainty regarding the completion of the merger. This uncertainty may cause customers, suppliers or strategic partners to delay or defer decisions concerning us or 34 Table of Contents EyeWonder, which could negatively affect our business and EyeWonder’s business. Any delay or deferral of those decisions or changes in existing agreements could have a material adverse effect on the respective businesses of us and EyeWonder, regardless of whether the merger is ultimately completed. Customers may also seek to modify or terminate existing agreements. In addition, by increasing the breadth of our and EyeWonder’s business, the merger may make it more difficult for the combined company to enter into and maintain relationships, including customer relationships, with suppliers or strategic partners, some of whom may view the combined company as a more direct competitor than either us or EyeWonder as an independent company. Moreover, diversion of management focus and resources from the day-to-day operation of the business to matters relating to the merger could have a material adverse effect on each company’s business and operations, regardless of whether the merger is completed. Current and prospective employees of each company may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company. This may adversely affect each company’s ability to attract and retain key management, sales, marketing and technical personnel. The market price of our common stock after the merger may be affected by factors different from those affecting the shares of EyeWonder or us currently. The businesses of us and EyeWonder differ in important respects and, accordingly, the results of operations of the combined company and the market price of the combined company’s shares of common stock may be affected by factors different from those currently affecting the independent results of operations of us and EyeWonder. The merger may go forward in certain circumstances even if EyeWonder suffers a material adverse effect, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In general, we can refuse to complete the merger if a “material adverse effect”, as defined in the merger agreement, occurs with regard to EyeWonder before the closing. However, we may not refuse to complete the merger on that basis as a result of any fact, circumstance, change or effect resulting from: • general economic, financial or political conditions in the United States or any other jurisdiction in which EyeWonder or any of its subsidiaries has substantial business or operations, and any changes therein (including any changes arising out of acts of terrorism, war, weather conditions or other force majeure events) to the extent they do not have a material and substantially disproportionate impact on EyeWonder and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, relative to other interactive digital advertising companies of comparable size; • general conditions in the industries in which EyeWonder or any of its subsidiaries conduct business, and any changes therein (including any changes arising out of acts of terrorism, war, weather conditions or natural disasters) to the extent that they do not have a material and substantially disproportionate impact on EyeWonder and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, relative to other interactive digital advertising companies of comparable size; • changes in United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, or any interpretations of GAAP; • the announcement or pendency of the merger agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby; or • the failure, of EyeWonder, in and of itself, to meet internal projections, forecasts or budgets of revenues, earnings or other financial metrics. If adverse changes occur but we and EyeWonder must still complete the merger, our stock price may suffer. This in turn may reduce the value of the merger to EyeWonder securityholders. 35 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls or fail to implement our controls and procedures at EyeWonder and its subsidiaries after the merger, our ability to produce accurate financial statements could be impaired, which could adversely affect our operating results, our ability to operate our business and investors’ confidence in us. We must ensure that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place so that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis. This obligation will become more difficult as a result of the acquisition of EyeWonder. We are required to spend considerable effort on establishing and maintaining our internal controls, which is costly and time-consuming and needs to be reevaluated frequently. We have very limited experience in designing and testing our internal controls. For example, during the third quarter of 2007, we discovered material weaknesses in our system of internal controls over our revenue recognition and stock-based compensation processes that required us to restate our previously reported consolidated financial statements for the three-and nine-months ended September 30, 2006, the three-months and year ended December 31, 2006, the three-months ended March 31, 2007, and the three and six months ended June 30, 2007. We have only operated as a public company since June 2007 and we will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses as we comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Nasdaq Stock Market’s Global Market. These rules impose various requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices, increased reporting of compensation arrangements and other requirements. Our management and other personnel will continue to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, applying rules and regulations to the combined companies will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we include in our annual report our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our audited financial statements as of the end of each fiscal year. Furthermore, our independent registered public accounting firm is required to report on whether we believe we maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of the end of the year. We successfully completed our assessment and obtained our auditors’ attestation as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009. EyeWonder has not been required to establish or test internal controls required for public companies and its auditors have not reviewed its internal controls or procedures. Our continued compliance with Section 404 will require that it incur substantial expense and expends significant management time on compliance related issues, including our efforts in implementing controls and procedures for EyeWonder and its subsidiaries. We currently do not have an internal audit group and use an international accounting firm to assist us with our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. In future years, if we fail to timely complete this assessment, or if our auditors cannot timely attest, there may be a loss of public confidence in our internal controls, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to regulatory sanctions or investigations by the Nasdaq Stock Market’s Global Market, the Securities and Exchange Commission or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. In addition, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to timely meet its regulatory reporting obligations. The merger is subject to the receipt of consents and approvals from regulatory authorities that may impose conditions that could have an adverse effect on us or, if not obtained, could prevent completion of the merger. Before the merger may be completed, various approvals or consents must be obtained from various regulatory and other authorities. This includes filing all required notices to governmental authorities, including the required filings with the U.S. Department of Justice, or the DOJ, and the Federal Trade Commission, or the FTC, pursuant to the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, referred to herein as 36 Table of Contents the HSR Act. We and EyeWonder filed the applications to obtain the applicable regulatory approvals on January 25, 2010. On January 29, 2010, the Premerger Notification Office of the FTC informed the parties that early termination of the statutory waiting period had been granted. However, either the DOJ or FTC could open an investigation of the merger and could also challenge or seek to block the merger under the antitrust laws, as it deems necessary or desirable in the public interest, even after the statutory waiting period has been early terminated, and even after completion of the merger. State attorneys general in the various states in which we and EyeWonder operate may also open an investigation of the merger. In addition, in some jurisdictions, a competitor, customer or other third party could initiate a private action under the antitrust laws challenging or seeking to enjoin the merger, before or after completion of the merger. We cannot be sure that a challenge to the merger will not be made or that, if a challenge is made, we and EyeWonder will prevail. Failure to complete the merger could negatively affect both our and EyeWonder’s future business and operations. If the merger is not completed for any reason, we and EyeWonder may each be subject to a number of material risks. If the merger agreement is terminated, we and EyeWonder may each be unable to pursue another business combination transaction on terms as favorable as those set forth in the merger agreement, or at all. This could limit both ours and EyeWonder’s ability to pursue our and EyeWonder’s strategic goals. Costs related to the merger, such as financial advisory, legal, accounting and printing fees, must be paid even if the merger is not completed. In addition, EyeWonder may be required under certain circumstances to pay us, and we may be required under certain circumstances to pay EyeWonder, a termination fee of $3.5 million. A shift or decline in the demand for interactive digital advertising products and services could substantially reduce the anticipated benefits of the merger. We expect that customers will continue to purchase interactive digital advertising products and services and that the acquisition of EyeWonder will result in new market opportunities. However, if customer demand in the digital advertising market decreases or is less than expected, or if customer preferences shift to new or different products or services, then we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the merger. Failure to achieve cost synergies could harm our business and operating results. We anticipate that the merger will result in cost synergies associated with combining facilities, IT infrastructure, and certain functions such as finance, human resources and administrative services. However, differences between the two companies’ operations could cause unforeseen delays in the integration process, result in lower savings than originally anticipated, or both, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. The combined company will face uncertainties related to the effectiveness of internal controls. There can be no assurance that the combined company or its independent registered public accounting firm will not identify a material weakness in the combined company’s internal controls in the future. A material weakness in internal controls over financial reporting would require management and the combined company’s independent public accounting firm to evaluate its internal controls as ineffective. If internal controls over financial reporting are not considered adequate, the combined company may experience a loss of public confidence, which could have an adverse effect on its business and stock price. We and EyeWonder may waive one or more of the conditions of the merger without re-soliciting stockholder approval for the merger. Each of the conditions to our and EyeWonder’s obligations to complete the merger may be waived, in whole or in part, to the extent permitted by applicable law, by agreement of us and EyeWonder, if the condition is a 37 Table of Contents condition to both our and EyeWonder’s obligation to complete the merger, or by the party for which such condition is a condition of its obligation to complete the merger. Our board of directors and EyeWonder’s board of directors may evaluate the materiality of any such waiver to determine whether amendment of the proxy statement/prospectus and re-solicitation of proxies are necessary. We and EyeWonder, however, generally do not expect any such waiver to be significant enough to require re-solicitation of stockholders. In the event that any such waiver is not determined to be significant enough to require re-solicitation of stockholders, the companies will have the discretion to complete the merger without seeking further stockholder approval. Additionally, following approval of the merger proposal by EyeWonder’s stockholders, any amendment that would require approval of EyeWonder’s stockholders may be made upon the approval of the stockholder representative which approval will be binding on EyeWonder’s stockholders. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our limited operating history makes evaluating our business and future prospects difficult, and may increase the risk of your investment. Our Company has only been in existence since 2001. A significant amount of our growth, in terms of employees, operations and revenue, has occurred. For example, our revenue has grown from $5.0 million in 2003 to $65.2 million in 2006 to $131.7 million in 2009. As a consequence, we have a limited operating history which makes it difficult to evaluate our business and our future prospects. We have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries, such as the risks described in this report on Form 10-K. If we do not address these risks successfully, our business will be harmed. The trading price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile. The trading prices of our common stock and the securities of technology companies generally have been highly volatile. Factors affecting the trading price of our common stock will include: • variations in our operating results; • announcements of technological innovations, new services or service enhancements, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors; • commencement or resolution of, our involvement in and uncertainties arising from, litigation, particularly our current litigation with Akamai and MIT, Level 3 Communications, and our Securities Litigation matter; • recruitment or departure of key personnel; • changes in the estimates of our operating results or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that elect to follow our common stock; • developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights; • the gain or loss of significant customers; • market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers and the economy as a whole; and • adoption or modification of regulations, policies, procedures or programs applicable to our business. In addition, if the market for technology stocks or the stock market in general experiences loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, operating results or financial condition. The trading price of our common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry even if these events do not directly affect us. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue an adverse or misleading opinion or report, our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If any of the analysts who cover us issue an adverse or 38 Table of Contents misleading opinion regarding our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Insiders have substantial control over us and will be able to influence corporate matters. As of December 31, 2009, our directors and executive officers and their affiliates beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 52% of our outstanding common stock, including approximately 36% beneficially owned by investment entities affiliated with Goldman, Sachs & Co. Immediately after giving effect to the acquisition of EyeWonder and based on the shares outstanding as of December 31, 2009, these directors and executive officers will own 45% of our outstanding stock and investment entities affiliated with Goldman, Sachs & Co. will own 31%. Even after the acquisition, these stockholders will be able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets. This concentration of ownership could limit other stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control over us. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company and may affect the trading price of our common stock. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws: • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt; • provide for a classified board of directors, as a result of which the successors to the directors whose terms have expired will be elected to serve from the time of election and qualification until the third annual meeting following their election; • require that directors only be removed from office for cause and only upon a majority stockholder vote; • provide that vacancies on the board of directors, including newly created directorships, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office; • limit who may call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; and • require supermajority stockholder voting to effect certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 