ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. Statements that are not historical or current facts, including statements about our expectations, anticipated financial results, projected capital expenditures, and future business prospects, are forward-looking statements. You can identify these statements by our use of words such as "may," "will," "expect," "believe," "should," "plan," "anticipate," and other similar expressions. You can find examples of these statements throughout this report, including the description of our business in "Item 1. Business" and the "Recent Trends and Operational Outlook" section of "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." We cannot guarantee that our actual results will be consistent with the forward-looking statements we make in this report. You should carefully review the risk factors listed below, as well as those factors listed in other documents we file with the SEC. We do not assume an obligation to update any forward-looking statement. 16 Table of Contents Conditions in the global capital and credit markets and the economy in general may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial position. The global credit and capital markets are undergoing a period of unprecedented volatility and disruption, and the global economy is experiencing a recession. Our results of operations and financial position could be affected materially by adverse changes in the global capital and credit markets and the economy in general, in both the U.S. and elsewhere around the world. Economic conditions may also adversely affect the ability of our lenders, customers, and suppliers to continue to conduct their businesses and may affect our ability to operate our production facilities in an economical manner. Recent concerns over declining consumer and business confidence, the availability and cost of credit, reduced consumer spending and business investment, the volatility and strength of capital and credit markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the profitability of our business. Economic downturns characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment, and lower consumer spending typically result in decreased demand for our products. These conditions are beyond our control and may have a significant impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Our substantial debt adversely affects our financial flexibility and could impair our ability to operate. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $1,104 million of outstanding indebtedness (consisting of approximately $1,037 million under the senior secured credit facilities and approximately $67 million of notes payable). The level of our indebtedness could have important negative consequences for our business, financial condition, and operating results, including the following: •It limits our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, and acquisitions; •It makes us more vulnerable to current and future downturns in our business, our industry, or the economy in general; •A substantial portion of our cash flow from operations is dedicated to the repayment of indebtedness and will not be available for other business purposes or opportunities; •We are subject to debt covenants that restrict management's ability to pursue some business opportunities; •It limits our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and in our industry; •We are more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; and •There would be a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition if we were unable to service our indebtedness or obtain additional financing as needed. Our operations may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to meet our debt service obligations. Our ability to make payments on and to repay our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures depends on our ability to generate cash from future operations. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors that are beyond our control. For example, further decreases in the demand for paper products, continued deterioration in the general economy, and weaknesses in any of our product markets negatively affect our business and our ability to generate cash. As a result, it is possible we may not generate sufficient cash flow from our operations to enable us to repay our indebtedness, make interest payments, and fund other liquidity needs. To the extent we do not generate sufficient cash flow to meet these requirements, it would affect our ability to operate as a going concern. 17 Table of Contents Our expected debt service requirements, assuming interest rates stay at December 31, 2008, levels, is estimated to be approximately $65.6 million in cash interest payments and fees per annum, which amount will be reduced each year in accordance with scheduled debt amortization payments, if made. In addition, debt service requirements will also include principal payments totaling $25.8 million in 2009 and rising to a maximum of $447.7 million in 2014. If we became unable to meet our debt service requirements, we would be required to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; however, we may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. A default under our indebtedness may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In the event of a default under our senior secured credit facilities, the lenders generally would be able to declare all such indebtedness, together with interest, to be due and payable. In addition, borrowings under the senior secured credit facilities are secured by first- and second-priority liens, as applicable, on all of our assets and our subsidiaries' assets, and in the event of a default under those facilities, the lenders generally would be entitled to seize the collateral. Moreover, upon an event of default, the commitment of the lenders to make any further loans would be terminated. Accordingly, a default under any debt instrument, unless cured or waived, would likely have a material adverse effect on our overall business, the results of our operations, and our financial condition. If we became unable to meet our financial obligations, it could also cause concern for our customers, vendors, or trade creditors. If any significant customer, vendor, or trade creditor changed its relationship with us by stopping work, ceasing sales, requiring sales on cash terms, or making other changes, these changes would materially affect our cash flows and results of operations. Our senior secured credit facilities contain restrictive covenants that limit our overall liquidity and corporate activities. The senior secured credit facilities impose operating and financial restrictions that limit our ability to: •Create additional liens on our assets; •Make investments or acquisitions; •Pay dividends; •Incur additional indebtedness or enter into sale/leaseback transactions; •Sell assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries; •Enable our subsidiaries to make distributions; •Enter into transactions with our affiliates; •Enter into new lines of business; and •Engage in consolidations, mergers, or sales of substantially all of our assets. 18 Table of Contents We will need to seek permission from the lenders to engage in specified corporate actions. The lenders' interests may be different from ours, and no assurance can be given that we will be able to obtain the lenders' permission when needed. This may prevent us from taking actions that are in our stockholders' best interest. The senior secured credit facilities also require us to achieve specified financial and operating results and maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. Our ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond our control, and these types of restrictions could: •Limit our ability to plan for, or react to, market conditions or meet capital needs or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans; and •Adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, strategic acquisitions, investments, alliances, and other capital needs or to engage in other business activities that would be in our best interest. Our operations require substantial capital, and we may not have adequate capital resources to provide for all of our capital requirements. Our businesses are capital-intensive, and we regularly incur capital expenditures to maintain our equipment, increase our operating efficiency, and comply with environmental laws. In addition, significant amounts of capital are required to modify our equipment to produce alternative or additional products or to make significant improvements in the characteristics of our current products. On a combined basis, during the year ended December 31, 2008, our total capital expenditures, excluding acquisitions, were $100.8 million. We expect to spend approximately $75 million to $85 million on capital expenditures for 2009. Our capital expenditures are expected to be between $90 million and $120 million annually over the next five years, excluding acquisitions. If we require funds for operating needs and capital expenditures beyond those generated from operations, we may not be able to obtain them on favorable terms or at all. In addition, our debt service obligations will reduce our available cash flows. If we cannot maintain or upgrade our equipment as we require or ensure environmental compliance, we could be required to cease or curtail some of our manufacturing operations or we may become unable to manufacture products that can compete effectively in one or more of our markets. Since the Acquisition, the market price of our common stock has declined significantly, and we face possible delisting from the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). Shares of our common stock are currently listed on the NYSE. The market price of our common stock has declined significantly since the Acquisition. On the date of the Acquisition, February 22, 2008, the closing price of our common stock was $8.50 per share. As of January 30, 2009, the closing price of our common stock price was $0.50 per share, and our market capitalization was approximately $39.9 million. The NYSE's quantitative listing standards require NYSE-listed companies to have an average market capitalization of at least $75.0 million over any consecutive 30-trading-day period. In addition, the average closing price of any listed security must not fall below $1.00 per share for any consecutive 30-day-trading-day period. On November 5, 2008, we received written notice from the NYSE that we did not comply with these two continued listing standards. As required by the NYSE, we submitted a business plan to demonstrate our ability to achieve compliance with the market capitalization requirement within 18 months from the receipt of the notice. The NYSE has notified us that it has accepted our plan to regain compliance. We must cure the share price deficiency by May 2009 and the market capitalization deficiency by May 2010. If we are not compliant by either date, our common stock will also be subject to suspension by the NYSE and delisting. Although we intend to cure the deficiencies and to return to compliance with the NYSE continued listing requirements, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. 19 Table of Contents If our common stock is delisted, or if it becomes apparent to us that we will be unable to meet the NYSE's continued listing standards in the near future, we intend to seek to have our common stock listed or quoted on another national securities exchange or quotation system. However, we may be unable to list or quote our common stock on another national securities exchange or quotation system. Even if our common stock is listed or quoted on such other exchange or system, a delisting by the NYSE could hurt our investors by reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock. Additionally, a delisting could negatively affect us by reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, which could negatively affect our ability to access public capital markets. We have significant obligations for pension and post-employment benefits. In December 2008, we enacted a freeze on our defined benefit pension plan for salaried employees (Salaried Plan); however, we continue to maintain defined benefit pension plans for our union employees. Despite the freeze of the salaried plan, we will continue to have significant obligations for pension and other postemployment benefits that could require future funding beyond that which we have funded in the past or which we currently anticipate. Pension funding requirements depend in part on returns on plan assets. As of December 31, 2008, our pension assets had a market value of $248 million, compared with $324 million as of February 22, 2008, the date we assumed the obligation for these plans. Assuming a return on plan assets of 7.25% in 2009 and 2010, we estimate that we would be required to contribute $4.1 million in 2009 and approximately $38 million in 2010, which includes the impact of the pension plan freeze. The amount of required contributions will depend, among other things, on actual returns on plan assets, changes in our plan asset return assumptions, changes in interest rates that affect our discount rate assumptions, changes in pension funding requirement laws, and modifications to our plans. Our estimates may change materially depending upon the impact of these and other factors. Recent declines in the global equity markets may require us to make larger than anticipated contributions to our pension plans. Some of our paper products are vulnerable to long-term declines in demand due to competing technologies or materials. Our uncoated freesheet papers and newsprint compete with electronic data transmission, document storage alternatives, and paper grades we do not produce. Increasing shifts to these alternatives and increasing use of the Internet have had and are likely to continue to have an adverse effect on traditional print media and paper usage. Neither the timing nor the extent of this shift can be predicted with certainty. Because of these trends, demand for paper products may shift from one grade of paper to another or be eliminated altogether. For example, demand for newsprint has declined and may continue to decline as newspapers are replaced with electronic media, and demand for our uncoated freesheet paper for use in preprinted forms has declined and may continue to decline as the use of desktop publishing and on-demand printing continues to displace traditional forms. Demand for our containerboard may decline as corrugated paper packaging may be replaced with other packaging materials, such as plastic. Any substantial shift in demand from our products to competing technologies or materials could result in a material decrease in sales of our products, which could cause us to curtail or shut down production capacity. Curtailments or shutdowns could result in asset write-downs and additional costs at the affected facilities, negatively affecting our results of operations and financial condition. The paper industry is cyclical. Fluctuations in the prices of and the demand for our products could result in smaller profit margins and lower sales volumes. Historically, economic and market shifts, fluctuations in capacity, and changes in foreign currency exchange rates have created cyclical changes in prices, sales volumes, and margins for our products. The length and magnitude of industry cycles have varied over time and by product but generally reflect changes in macroeconomic conditions and levels of industry capacity. Most of our paper products, including our cut-size office paper, containerboard, and newsprint, are commodities that are widely available 20 Table of Contents from other producers. Even our noncommodity products, such as premium papers, are affected by commodity prices since the prices of these grades are often tied to commodity prices. Commodity products have few distinguishing qualities from producer to producer, and as a result, competition for these products is based primarily on price, which is determined by supply relative to demand. The overall levels of demand for the commodity products we make and distribute, and consequently our sales and profitability, reflect fluctuations in levels of end-user demand, which depend in large part on general macroeconomic conditions in North America and regional economic conditions in our markets, as well as foreign currency exchange rates. For example, demand for our paper products fluctuates with levels of employment, the state of durable and nondurable goods industries, and prevailing levels of advertising and print circulation. In recent years, particularly since 2000, demand for some grades of paper has decreased as electronic transmission and document storage alternatives have become more prevalent. Newsprint demand in North America has been in decline for decades as electronic media has increasingly displaced paper as a medium for information and communication. Industry supply of commodity paper products is also subject to fluctuation, as changing industry conditions can influence producers to idle or permanently close individual machines or entire mills. In addition, to avoid substantial cash costs in connection with idling or closing a mill, some producers will choose to continue to operate at a loss, sometimes even a cash loss, which could prolong weak pricing environments due to oversupply. Oversupply in these markets can also result from producers introducing new capacity in response to favorable short-term pricing trends. Industry supply of commodity paper products is also influenced by overseas production capacity, which has grown in recent years and is expected to continue to grow. A weak U.S. dollar tends to mitigate the levels of imports, while a strong U.S. dollar tends to increase imports of commodity paper products from overseas, putting downward pressure on prices. Prices for all of our products are driven by many factors outside our control, and we have little influence over the timing and extent of price changes, which are often volatile. Market conditions beyond our control determine the prices for our commodity products, and as a result, the price for any one or more of these products may fall below our cash production costs, requiring us to either incur short-term losses on product sales or cease production at one or more of our manufacturing facilities. From time to time, we have taken downtime (or slowed production) at some of our mills to balance our production with the market demand for our products, and we may continue to do so in the future. Some of our competitors may also close or reduce production at their operating facilities, some of which could reopen and increase production capacity. This could result in a supply and demand imbalance and cause prices to fall. Therefore, our ability to achieve acceptable operating performance and margins is principally dependent on (i) managing our cost structure, (ii) managing changes in raw materials prices, which represent a large component of our operating costs and fluctuate based upon factors beyond our control, and (iii) general conditions in the paper market. If the prices of our products decline or if our raw material costs increase, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We face strong competition in our markets. The paper and packaging and newsprint industry is highly competitive, and we face competition from numerous competitors, domestic as well as foreign. Some of our competitors are large, vertically integrated companies that have greater financial and other resources, greater manufacturing economies of scale, greater energy self-sufficiency, and/or lower operating costs, compared with our company. Because of ongoing consolidation in our industry, many of our competitors have become larger, and this trend may continue in the future. Many of our competitors have greater financial resources than do we, and therefore, more of their cash will be available for business purposes other than debt service. As a result, we may be unable to compete with other companies in the market during the various stages 21 Table of Contents of the business cycle and particularly during any downturns. Some of the factors that may adversely affect our ability to compete in the markets in which we participate include the entry of new competitors (including foreign producers) into the markets we serve, our competitors' pricing strategies, our failure to anticipate and respond to changing customer preferences, and our inability to maintain the cost-efficiency of our facilities. We depend on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our business. Our largest customer, OfficeMax, accounted for approximately 24% of our total sales in 2008. Pursuant to a 2004 paper supply contract that remained in place after the Acquisition, OfficeMax is required to purchase its North American requirements for office papers from us. If OfficeMax was unable to pay, our financial performance could be affected significantly and negatively. Any significant deterioration in the financial condition of OfficeMax or a significant change in its business that would affect its willingness to continue to purchase our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our recent decision to terminate our newsprint marketing arrangement with ACSC (Abitibi Consolidated Sales Corporation) and sell newsprint on our own may adversely affect our financial results. Until late February 2009, we marketed our newsprint through Abitibi Consolidated Sales Corporation (ACSC), an indirect subsidiary of AbitibiBowater Inc., pursuant to an arrangement whereby ACSC purchased all of the newsprint we produce. In late February 2009, we terminated our arrangement with ACSC and began selling our newsprint production through our own sales personnel. Our re-entry into this market requires us to effectively adapt our business to support this sales function, which includes hiring sales personnel and adjusting our business systems to support this sales function. It will also require us to establish new customer relationships in a market with declining demand. If we are unsuccessful in establishing these customer relationships, adapting our business systems, or competing effectively in this market, our sales revenues, pricing margins, and financial performance will be affected negatively. A material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales, and/or negatively affect our net income. Any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including: •Maintenance outages; •Prolonged power failures; •An equipment failure; •Disruption in the supply of raw materials, such as wood fiber, energy, or chemicals; •A chemical spill or release; •Closure because of environmental-related concerns; •Explosion of a boiler; •The effect of a drought or reduced rainfall on our water supply; •Disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including roads, bridges, railroad tracks, and tunnels; •Fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes, or other catastrophes; •Terrorism or threats of terrorism; •Labor difficulties; or •Other operational problems. 22 Table of Contents For example, in the fall of 2008, we incurred approximately $5.5 million in lost production and costs incurred in shutting down and restarting our DeRidder, Louisiana, mill as a result of Hurricanes Gustav and Ike. Similar future events may cause shutdowns, which may result in downtime and/or cause damage to our facilities. Any such downtime or facility damage could prevent us from meeting customer demand for our products and/or require us to make unplanned capital expenditures. If our machines or facilities were to incur significant downtime, our ability to meet our production capacity targets and satisfy customer requirements would be impaired, resulting in lower sales and net income. Increases in the cost of our purchased energy or chemicals would lead to higher manufacturing costs, thereby reducing our margins. Energy is one of our most significant costs, and it accounted for approximately 16% and 15% of the aggregate amount of materials, labor, and other operating expenses, including fiber costs, for our Paper and Packaging segments, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2008. Energy prices, particularly for electricity, natural gas, and fuel oil, have been volatile in recent years. These fluctuations affect our manufacturing costs and contribute to earnings volatility. We have some flexibility to switch between fuel sources; however, we have significant exposure to natural gas, fuel oil, and biomass (hog fuel) price increases. Increased demand for these fuels or supply constraints could drive prices higher. The electricity rates charged to us are affected by the increase in natural gas prices, although the degree of impact depends on each utility's mix of energy resources and the relevant regulatory situation. Other raw materials we use include various chemical compounds, such as precipitated calcium carbonate, sodium chlorate, sodium hydroxide, and dyes. Purchases of chemicals accounted for approximately 15% and 6% of the aggregate amount of materials, labor, and other operating expenses, including fiber costs, for our Paper and Packaging segments, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2008. The costs of these chemicals have been volatile historically and are influenced by capacity utilization, energy prices, and other factors beyond our control. For our products, the relationship between industry supply and demand, rather than changes in the cost of raw materials, determines our ability to increase prices. Consequently, we may be unable to pass increases in our operating costs to our customers in the short term. Any sustained increase in chemical or energy prices, coupled with our inability to increase prices, would reduce our operating margins and potentially require us to limit or cease operations of one or more of our machines or facilities. Our manufacturing businesses may have difficulty obtaining logs and fiber at favorable prices or at all. Wood fiber is our principal raw material, accounting for approximately 29% and 15% of the aggregate amount of materials, labor, and other operating expenses, including fiber costs, for our Paper and Packaging segments, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2008. Wood fiber is a commodity, and prices have historically been cyclical. In addition, availability of wood fiber is often negatively affected if demand for building products declines, since wood fiber, including wood chips, sawdust, and shavings, is a byproduct in the manufacture of building products. Wood fiber for our paper mills in the Northwest comes predominantly from building products manufacturing plants. Because of the decline in the housing markets and new construction, a significant number of Northwest building products manufacturing plants have been curtailed and closed. These curtailments affect the availability and price of wood fiber in the region and, in turn, affect the operating and financial performance of our Northwest paper mills. The cost and availability of fiber was a contributing factor in our decision to restructure our St. Helens paper mill. In many cases, we are unable to increase product prices in response to increased wood fiber costs, depending on other factors affecting the demand or supply of paper. Further, severe or sustained shortages of fiber could cause us to curtail our own operations, resulting in material and adverse effects on our sales and profitability. 23 Table of Contents Future domestic or foreign legislation and litigation concerning the use of timberlands, the protection of endangered species, the promotion of forest health, and the response to and prevention of catastrophic wildfires can also affect log and fiber supply. Availability of harvested logs and fiber may be further limited by fire, insect infestation, disease, ice storms, windstorms, hurricanes, flooding, and other natural and man-made causes, thereby reducing supply and increasing prices. In addition, since a number of our manufacturing facilities use wood-based biomass as an alternative energy source, an increase in wood fiber costs or a reduction in availability can increase the price of or reduce the total usage of biomass, which could result in higher energy costs. We are subject to significant environmental regulation and environmental compliance expenditures, as well as other potential environmental liabilities. We are subject to a wide range of general and industry-specific environmental laws and regulations, particularly with respect to air emissions, wastewater discharges, solid and hazardous waste management, and site remediation. If we fail to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations, we may face civil or criminal fines, penalties, or enforcement actions, including orders limiting our operations or requiring corrective measures, installation of pollution control equipment, or other remedial actions. We anticipate that environmental regulation of our operations will continue to become more burdensome and that we will continue to incur significant capital and operating expenditures in order to maintain compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. For example, we may be affected if laws concerning climate change are enacted that regulate greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Such laws require buying allowances for mill GHG emissions or cause expenditure of capital to reduce GHG emissions. Because environmental regulations are not consistent worldwide, our ability to compete in the world marketplace may be adversely affected by capital and operating expenditures for environmental compliance. As an owner and operator of real estate, we may also be liable under environmental laws for cleanup and other damages, including tort liability, resulting from releases of hazardous substances on or from our properties. We may have liability under these laws whether or not we knew of or were responsible for the presence of these substances on our property, and in some cases, our liability may not be limited to the value of the property. On a combined basis during the year ended December 31, 2008, capital expenditures for environmental compliance were $1.4 million. We expect to incur approximately $3 million of capital expenditures for environmental compliance for 2009. Enactment of new environmental laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations might require significant, additional expenditures. We may be unable to generate funds or other sources of liquidity and capital to fund unforeseen environmental liabilities or expenditures. Labor disruptions or increased labor costs could materially adversely affect our business. While we believe we have good labor relations and have established staggered labor contracts for each of our five paper mills to minimize potential disruptions in the event of a labor dispute, we could experience a material labor disruption or significantly increased labor costs at one or more of our facilities, either in the course of negotiations of a labor agreement or otherwise. Either of these situations could prevent us from meeting customer demand or result in increased costs, thereby reducing our sales and profitability. As of January 31, 2009, we had approximately 4,350 employees. Approximately 2,570, or 59%, of these employees work pursuant to collective bargaining agreements. In first quarter 2009, we will start negotiating the labor contracts at our packaging plant in Salem, Oregon (92 employees represented by the Association of Western Pulp & Paper Workers), which expired in December 2008, and at our paper mill in Wallula, Washington (332 employees represented by the AWPPW), which expires mid-March 2009. Some of 24 Table of Contents our customers and suppliers are also unionized. Strikes, lockouts, or other work stoppages or slowdowns involving our customers or suppliers could have a material adverse effect on us. Our stock ownership is highly concentrated, and as a result, Boise Cascade may influence our affairs significantly. At the time of the Acquisition, Boise Cascade Holdings owned approximately 49% of our common stock and continued to own approximately 49% at December 31, 2008. As a result, Boise Cascade Holdings has significant representation on our board of directors and will have the voting power to significantly influence our policies, business, and affairs and will also have the ability to influence the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter, including mergers, consolidations, and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This concentration in control may have the effect of delaying, deterring, or preventing a change of control that otherwise could result in a premium in the price of our common stock. In addition, as long as the holders of Boise Registrable Securities (as such term is defined in the Investor Rights Agreement dated February 22, 2008, entered into by and among us, Boise Cascade and other stockholders named therein (the Investor Rights Agreement) in connection with the Acquisition) control 33% or more of our common stock issued to Boise Cascade at the closing, we will be subject to restrictions on our business activities pursuant to the terms of the Investor Rights Agreement. More specifically, for so long as the 33% ownership threshold is met or exceeded, the Investor Rights Agreement will restrict us from conducting specified activities or taking specified actions without the affirmative written consent of the holders of a majority of the Boise Registrable Securities then outstanding. The restricted activities include, without limitation, making distributions on our equity securities; redemptions, purchases, or acquisitions of our equity securities; issuances or sales of equity securities or securities exchangeable or convertible for equity securities; issuing debt or convertible/exchangeable debt securities; making loans, advances or guarantees; mergers and/or acquisitions; asset sales; liquidations; recapitalizations; nonordinary business activities; making changes to our organizational documents; making changes to arrangements with our officers, directors, employees, and other related persons; incurrence of indebtedness for borrowed money or capital leases above specified thresholds; and consummating the sale of the Company. Additionally, pursuant to affirmative covenants under the Investor Rights Agreement (and subject to the same 33% ownership threshold), unless the holders of a majority of the Boise Registrable Securities then outstanding have otherwise consented in writing, we are required to perform specified activities, including, without limitation, preservation of our corporate existence and material licenses, authorizations and permits necessary to the conduct of our business, maintenance of our material properties, discharge of certain statutory liens, performance under material contracts, compliance with applicable laws and regulations, preservation of adequate insurance coverage, and maintenance of proper books of record and account. Registration rights held by Boise Cascade and certain of our stockholders may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. The Investor Rights Agreement provides for registration rights with respect to: (1) Aldabra Registrable Securities (as such term is defined in the Investor Rights Agreement), (2) the Boise Registrable Securities, and (3) shares held by other of our stockholders party to the Investor Rights Agreement (the Other Registrable Securities). Additionally, whenever (i) we propose to register any of our securities under the Securities Act and (ii) the method we select would permit the registration of registrable securities, holders of Aldabra Registrable Securities, the Boise Registrable Securities, or Other Registrable Securities have the right to request the inclusion of their registrable securities in such registration. At December 31, 2008, holders of approximately 48,460,874 shares had registration rights. On February 12, 2009, our registration statement registering all but 9,425,097 of these shares for resale was declared effective by the SEC. In addition, on February 19, 2009, we received a demand to 25 Table of Contents register the remaining shares subject to registration rights. The resale of these shares in the public market upon exercise of the registration rights described above could adversely affect the market price of our common stock or affect our ability to raise additional equity capital. Delaware law and our amended and restated charter documents may impede or discourage a takeover that our stockholders may consider favorable. Our amended and restated charter has provisions that may deter, delay, or prevent a third party from acquiring us. These provisions include: limitations on the ability of stockholders to amend our charter documents, including, but not limited to, stockholder supermajority voting requirements; the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings after such time as Boise Cascade owns less than 25% of the voting power of our common stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors; a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms; and the authority of our board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock with such terms as the board of directors may determine and to issue additional shares of our common stock. These provisions could have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control; discouraging others from making tender offers for our shares; and lowering the market price of our stock or impeding the ability of our stockholders to change our management, even if such changes would be beneficial to our stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have no unresolved comments. 