Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K. Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance should not be considered as a reliable indicator of future performance and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Recent turmoil in the financial markets and the global economic recession has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our industry, business and gross margins. The U.S. and world economic markets are undergoing a recession, and the future economic environment may continue to be significantly less favorable than that of recent years. Our business depends on the overall demand for information technology, in particular for deduplication storage appliances for backup storage and network-based disaster recovery. Information technology spending has historically declined with worsening general economic and market conditions and we believe the current recession has already caused our customers to significantly reduce or delay their information technology purchases and that these reductions and delays have negatively impacted demand for our products and services and our business. If the U.S. and global recession continues to worsen, and the U.S. and world economies remain depressed for an extended period of time, or if our customers believe such a downturn will continue for the foreseeable future or become more severe, then our customers may continue to significantly reduce their information technology budgets and may decrease their demand for our products and services. As a result of this economic slowdown and the continued tightening of credit markets, our customers may be delayed in obtaining, or may not be able to obtain, necessary financing for their purchases of our products. A lack of liquidity in the capital markets or the continued global recession may cause our customers to delay or cancel their purchases, increase the time they take to pay or default on their payment obligations. Currency fluctuations relating to the financial crisis could also negatively affect our international customers’ ability or desire to purchase our products. In addition, continued weakness in the economy could cause some of our resellers and other customers to become illiquid, delay payments or adversely affect our collection on their accounts, any of which would result in a higher level of bad debt expense. In February 2009, one of our resellers filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy. As of December 31, 2008, we had a trade receivable of $1.1 million, from this reseller, for which we have not recorded an allowance. As part of the bankruptcy proceeding, a primary investor in this reseller has agreed to purchase the assets and assume certain liabilities of this reseller in its efforts to recapitalize the reseller. Specifically, this investor has filed a statement with the bankruptcy court of its intention to assume the $1.1 million liability payable to us. This asset purchase agreement is subject to the final approval of the bankruptcy court, and if the asset purchase is not completed, all or a portion of this amount due us may be uncollectible and require a recognition of bad debt expense. We have continued to ship product to this reseller in the first quarter of 2009 upon the receipt of cash prior to shipment. The global economic recession may not only cause our customers to significantly reduce or delay their information technology budgets, which would negatively impact demand for our products and services, but may also result in: • increased price competition for our products, not only from our competitors, but also as a result of our customer’s or potential customer’s utilization of inventoried or underutilized products, which could put additional pressure on our near term gross profits; • risk of excess or obsolete inventories; • excess manufacturing capacity and higher associated overhead costs as a percentage of revenue; and • more limited ability to accurately forecast our business and future financial performance. The lack of liquidity and economic slowdown may also adversely affect our suppliers, including those on whom we are dependent as sole source suppliers, and their liquidity, and the availability of, and/or terms and conditions on which we purchase their products and services. Any of these events could limit our ability to obtain necessary products and services, including components for our products, contract manufacturing services from our contract manufacturer, and break-fix services from our break-fix services supplier, and could adversely impact our supply chain or the delivery schedule to our customers. This also could require us to purchase more expensive components, or re-design systems, or find new suppliers of manufacturing or break-fix services, any of which could increase the cost of our systems and support and delay the manufacturing and delivery of our systems or negatively impact the performance or quality of our products and services. Such events would likely negatively impact our business and gross margins and harm our reputation and our customer relationships. As a result of the recession, we may face new risks that we have not yet identified. In addition, a number of the risks associated with our business, which are disclosed in these risk factors, may increase in likelihood, magnitude or duration. 8 We face significant competition and expect this competition to intensify, which could prevent us from increasing our revenue, reduce our gross margins and result in the loss of market share. The market for our products is highly competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. Other companies have introduced and may in the future introduce new products in the same markets we serve or intend to enter. New competitive offerings have been recently announced or introduced in our marketplace by our competitors EMC, HP and IBM, and we anticipate additional offerings by our competitors may be announced or introduced in 2009. Competition in the past has resulted in pricing pressure on our products and services, and we anticipate that pricing pressure will increase in the future. Competition has in some instances resulted in a negative impact on the length of our sales cycle, and we may experience longer sales cycles in future periods due to increased competition. In particular, if a large number of orders, or a large dollar value order, is delayed or cancelled, our financial results may be harmed. Competition may result in reduced gross margins for our appliances, increased sales and marketing expenses and a failure to increase, or the loss of, market share. Competitive products may have better performance, lower prices and broader acceptance than our appliances. Many of our current or potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we have. Potential customers may prefer to purchase from their existing vendors rather than a new vendor regardless of product performance or features. In addition, our competitors may be able to bundle products and services that we do not offer together with products that compete with ours at a combined price that is more attractive than the price we charge for our appliances. Currently, we face competition from traditional providers of tape-based storage systems such as Sun Microsystems and Quantum Corporation as well as a number of established storage companies that offer a variety of different disk-based storage products, including EMC and NetApp and, to a lesser extent, HDS, HP and IBM. Some of our competitors sell, or have announced plans to sell, deduplication storage products that compete directly with our appliances, and additional competitors may introduce deduplication storage products in the future. Pursuant to a cross-license agreement with Quantum, we have licensed our current, and certain future, patents relating to data storage or data transmission, which could assist Quantum in competing with us. We also compete with a number of emerging hardware and software companies that may become more significant competitors in the future. In addition, at the low-end of our product line, we may compete with WAN acceleration and backup software providers that incorporate deduplication capabilities in their products. We expect increased competition from other established and emerging companies if our market continues to develop and expand. Some of our channel partners currently market products and services that compete with our appliances. If these channel partners cease to distribute our appliances for competitive reasons, our sales may decrease or not grow as quickly. In addition, some of our competitors have made acquisitions or entered into partnerships or other strategic relationships with one another to offer a more comprehensive solution than they individually are able to offer. We believe additional consolidation or partnerships are likely to occur in the future as companies attempt to strengthen or maintain their market positions in an evolving industry. The companies resulting from these consolidations or partnerships could significantly change the competitive landscape and adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. Some of our competitors have also entered into relationships with original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, that could provide those competitors with sales, marketing, distribution and other advantages. We derive all of our revenue from sales of a single line of systems and related customer support and services, and if demand for these systems does not continue to grow, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. We derive all of our revenue from sales of a single line of deduplication storage systems and associated customer support and services. As a result, we are vulnerable to fluctuations in demand for these systems, whether as a result of competing technologies and products, the impact of the continuing weakening of U.S. and global economic conditions, decreases or delays in corporate spending for information technologies, product obsolescence, lack of customer acceptance, technological change, customer budgetary constraints or other factors. If demand for our systems does not continue to grow, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. With the recent volatility in the capital markets, there is a risk that we could suffer a loss of principal in our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments and suffer a reduction in our interest or return on investments. We invest our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments pursuant to our investment policy in cash, money market funds, commercial paper, corporate bonds and U.S. government agency securities, and we actively manage our portfolio with an objective of capital preservation. Certain of these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by the continuing deterioration of global economic conditions. To date, we have determined that any declines in the market value of our short-term investments have been temporary. There could be future declines in the value of our short-term investments, which we may determine to be other-than-temporary. These market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a negative adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Our short-term investments portfolio has a relatively short duration consistent with our policy of principle preservation. As a consequence, our interest income is significantly affected from period to period by the level of short term interest rates in effect during each period. During the fourth quarter of 2008, these rates were under significant downward pressure, and it is likely we will experience a significant diminution in interest income during the first quarter of 2009, and until short-term interest rates increase. At December 31, 2008, we had $31.0 million of principal in auction-rate securities, valued at $26.1 million. In January 2008, these securities, which consist of AAA-rated, taxable municipal debt obligations, had auctioned successfully. On February 14, 2008, the majority of these auction-rate securities failed to auction, causing access to these funds to be restricted, and each auction since then has failed. An auction failure means that the parties wishing to sell securities could not. As of December 31, 2008, we classified these auction-rate securities as long-term investments, and have reclassified these securities from available-for-sale to trading, which resulted in a recognized loss of $4.9 million in our Statement of Operations. In November 2008, we signed a broad-based settlement proposal from UBS AG, or UBS, in which we have the right to sell the securities back to affiliates of UBS (the "put option") at par value during the period from June 30, 2010 to July 2, 2012 if liquidity does not return to the auction-rate securities market sooner. The affiliates of UBS will retain the right to sell our auction-rate securities on our behalf, without prior notification, at any time prior to July 2, 2012 as long as we receive par value from such sale. We will continue to monitor these investments going forward. We expect to exercise our right, or put option, to sell our auction-rate securities under the UBS agreement. The put option was valued at $4.8 million and recorded in long-term investments with a corresponding credit to other income (expense), net. However, if we do not exercise the put option before July 2, 2012, this put option will expire and UBS will have no further rights or obligations to buy our auction-rate securities. As long as we hold our auction-rate securities, they will continue to accrue interest as determined by the auction process or the terms specified in the auction-rate securities if the auction process fails. 9 We experience quarterly fluctuations in our operating results due to a number of factors, which make our future results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations or our guidance. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. If our revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, or below any guidance we may provide to the market, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. In addition to other risk factors listed in this “Risk Factors” section, factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include: · fluctuations in demand for our appliances; · fluctuations in sales cycles and prices for our appliances, particularly for large orders which tend to have a longer sales cycle; · reductions in customers’ budgets for information technology purchases and delays in their purchasing cycles; · the timing of recognizing revenue in any given quarter as a result of revenue recognition rules; · our ability to develop, introduce and ship in a timely manner new products and product enhancements that meet customer requirements; · the timing of product releases or upgrades by us or by our competitors; · our ability to hire additional sales personnel and the length of time required for any such additional personnel to generate significant revenue; · any lack of availability of, delay in the availability of, or quality problems with, any components we acquire from third-party suppliers, particularly any components we acquire from a third-party that is our sole source of supply for the components; · any significant changes in the competitive dynamics of our market, including new entrants or substantial discounting of products; · our ability to control costs, including our operating expenses and the costs of the components we purchase; · our experience with product reliability and associated warranty claims; and · general economic conditions in our domestic and international markets. In addition, we may experience seasonality in the sales of our appliances. We believe our rapid growth and limited operating history may have masked the nature or magnitude of seasonal or cyclical factors that might have influenced our business to date. Seasonal variations in our sales may lead to significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. Our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that may harm our operating results. In the year ended December 31, 2008, we derived approximately 23% of our revenue from international customers. We have sales personnel in numerous countries worldwide. We expect to continue to add personnel in additional countries. Our international operations subject us to a variety of risks, including: · the difficulty of managing and staffing international offices and the increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; · the management of our relationships with channel partners outside the United States, whose sales and lead generation activities are very important to our international operations; · difficulties in enforcing contracts and collecting accounts receivable, and longer payment cycles, especially in emerging markets; · tariffs and trade barriers and other regulatory limitations on our ability to sell our appliances in certain foreign markets; · increased exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk; · increased exposure to possible violations of, or non-compliance with, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; · increased exposure to possible violations of U.S. laws regulating the export of our products, and to other U.S. and foreign laws affecting the conduct of business globally such as product certification, environmental and waste management and data privacy laws; · reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; and · political and economic instability. Sales to international customers may also result in greater shipping costs and additional expenses to conform our appliances to the requirements of local laws or local product specifications. As we continue to expand our business internationally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our international operations, reduce or delay our international sales, and result in fines and penalties. Changes in our provision for income taxes or adverse outcomes resulting from examinations of our income tax returns could adversely affect our results. If our international revenues do not grow in absolute dollars and as a percentage of total revenues, then our effective tax rate will not meet our planning objectives and our profitability will be negatively impacted. Our provision for income taxes is also subject to volatility and could be adversely affected by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; by expiration of or lapses in the R&D tax credit laws; by transfer pricing adjustments; by tax effects of nondeductible compensation; or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, including accounting for uncertain tax positions or interpretations thereof. Significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attribute prescribed in Financial Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes-an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109, or FIN 48. In addition, FIN 48 applies to all income tax positions, including the potential recovery of previously paid taxes, which if settled unfavorably could adversely impact our provision for income taxes or additional paid-in capital. We anticipate future audits from various tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these future potential audits may result in an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, the recent turmoil in the financial markets, global recession, and change in U.S. federal administration could result in changes to the U.S. tax code and/or changes in the tax law and regulations applicable to Data Domain in the various jurisdiction around the world in which we operate with the effect of causing our effective tax rate to not meet our planning objectives and our profitability to be negatively impacted. 10 We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact our financial results and cash flows. Because a portion of our business is conducted outside the United States, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. Historically, our primary exposures have related to nondollar-denominated sales in Europe, UK, Canada, and Australia and nondollar-denominated operating expenses in Europe, Japan, Australia and Asia. Additionally, we have exposures for operating expenses to emerging market currencies, which can have extreme currency volatility. An increase in the value of the dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the United States where we sell in dollars and other currencies, and a weakened dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses. We have a history of losses and we may not be able to sustain profitability in the future. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, we recorded net income of approximately $21.6 million and net losses of $3.7 million and $4.0 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2008, our accumulated deficit was approximately $18.7 million, and despite the fact we achieved profitability in fiscal 2008, we might incur additional losses in future periods. We expect to make significant expenditures related to the development of our business, including expenditures to hire additional personnel relating to sales and marketing and product development. In addition, we will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. Our operating expenses are largely based on anticipated revenue trends, which could be negatively impacted by deteriorating global economic conditions, and a high percentage of our expenses are, and will continue to be, fixed in the short term. As a result, a delay in generating or recognizing revenue could cause significant variations in our operating results from quarter to quarter and annually and could result in substantial operating losses. Our revenue growth trends in prior periods are not likely to be sustainable, and we may not generate sufficient revenue to maintain profitability. We may incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including those discussed in other risk factors and factors that we cannot foresee. If we are not able to sustain profitability in the future, all or a portion of our net deferred tax assets may not be considered realizable, which could increase future income tax expense if we are required to establish a valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets. Our sales are difficult to predict, even in the near term, and a substantial portion of our quarterly sales typically occurs during the last several weeks of the quarter. A substantial portion of our quarterly sales typically occurs during the last several weeks of the quarter, which we believe largely reflects customer buying patterns of products similar to ours and other products in the technology industry generally. In addition, a significant portion of our sales in any quarter is not forecast at the start of the quarter and is generated by sales activity initiated within the quarter. Similarly, we have little visibility at the start of any quarter as to which existing customers, if any, will make additional purchases and when any additional purchases may occur, if at all. As a result, our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict even in the near-term. The market we serve is emerging and the purchase of our appliances by new customers may involve material changes to established purchasing patterns and policies. Our sales efforts involve educating potential customers about the uses and benefits of our appliances, including their technical capabilities and potential cost savings. Potential customers may undertake a significant evaluation process that has in the past resulted in a longer sales cycle. In addition, our sales cycle may be extended if potential customers decide to re-evaluate other aspects of their backup storage infrastructure at the same time they are considering a purchase of our appliances. We spend substantial time, money and other resources in our sales process without any assurance that our efforts will produce any sales. In addition, customer purchases are frequently subject to budget constraints, which could be negatively impacted by deteriorating global economic conditions, multiple approvals and unplanned administrative, processing and other delays. If sales expected from a specific customer for a particular quarter are not realized in that quarter, or at all, our business may suffer. We have a limited operating history and compete in a new and rapidly evolving market, which makes our future operating results difficult to predict. We were incorporated in October 2001 and first shipped our appliances in February 2004. We have a limited operating history in an industry characterized by rapid technological change, changing customer needs, evolving industry standards and frequent introductions of new products and services. As we encounter rapidly changing customer requirements and increasing competitive pressures, we likely will be required to reposition our product and service offerings and introduce new products and services. We may not be successful in doing so in a timely and appropriately responsive manner, or at all. Furthermore, because we compete in an early stage market, many of our target customers have not purchased products similar to ours and might not have a specific budget for the purchase of our appliances. Historically, enterprises have relied on non-deduplication, tape-based technologies for backup and recovery, and we might not succeed in generating increased demand for our products. All of these factors make it difficult to predict our future operating results, which may impair our ability to manage our business and investors’ ability to assess our prospects. If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel on a cost-effective basis, our business would be harmed. Our success is substantially dependent upon the performance of our senior management and key technical and sales personnel. Our management and employees can terminate their employment at any time, and the loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers or other key employees could harm our business. Our success also is substantially dependent upon our ability to attract additional personnel for all areas of our organization, particularly in our sales and research and development departments. Our dependence on attracting and retaining qualified personnel is particularly significant as we attempt to grow our organization. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel on a timely basis, on competitive terms, or at all. If we are unable to attract and retain the necessary technical, sales and other personnel on a cost-effective basis, our business would be harmed. We rely on channel partners to sell our appliances, and disruptions to, or our failure to develop and manage our channel partners would harm our business. Our future success is dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a large number of channel partners. A substantial majority of our revenue is generated by sales through our channel partners, and we expect channel sales to continue to make up a significant portion of our total revenue in the future, particularly outside the United States. In the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, approximately 84%, 86% and 85%, respectively, of our revenue was generated by sales through our channel partners. Accordingly, our revenue depends in large part on the effective sales and lead generation activities of these channel partners. Recruiting and retaining qualified channel partners and training them in our technology and product offerings requires significant time and resources. In order to develop and expand our distribution channel, we must continue to scale and improve our processes and procedures that support our channel, including investment in systems and training. Those processes and procedures may become increasingly complex and difficult to manage as we grow our organization. We have no minimum purchase commitments from any of our channel partners, and our contracts with these channel partners do not prohibit them from offering products or services that compete with ours. Our competitors may provide incentives to existing and potential channel partners to favor their products or to prevent or reduce sales of our appliances. Our channel partners may choose not to offer our appliances exclusively or at all. Establishing relationships with channel partners who have a history of selling our competitors’ products may also prove to be difficult. In addition, some of our channel partners are also competitors. Our failure to establish and maintain successful relationships with channel partners would seriously harm our business and operating results. The weak economic situation will place additional pressures on this channel model, since we may experience the failure of one or more of our resellers, potentially resulting in our inability to collect outstanding receivables from such resellers, and necessitating additional efforts on our part to replace such resellers in order to maintain access to the various markets around the globe If we fail to manage growth effectively, our business would be harmed. We have expanded our operations significantly since inception and anticipate that further expansion of our operations and headcount will be required. For example, our headcount increased from 435 employees as of December 31, 2007 to 777 employees as of December 31, 2008. Our growth has placed, and any future growth will place, significant demands on our management, infrastructure and other resources. To manage any future growth, we will need to hire, train, integrate and retain a large number of highly skilled and motivated employees. We will also need to continue to improve our financial and management controls and reporting systems and procedures. We implemented new enterprise resource planning software for our finance and inventory management processes in October 2007, and we may in the future upgrade other finance, sales and inventory management systems. We could encounter delays or difficulties in implementing any of these systems. If we do not effectively hire, train, integrate and retain sufficient highly qualified personnel to support any future growth, and if we do not effectively manage the associated increases in expenses, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. Our financial results would suffer if demand for deduplication storage appliances does not continue to grow. Our products are disk-based deduplication storage appliances for backup and network-based disaster recovery. Deduplication is a relatively new and emerging technology. Historically, enterprises have relied on non-deduplication tape-based technologies for backup and recovery. A reduction in demand for deduplication storage appliances for backup storage or network-based disaster recovery could be caused by, among other things, weakening economic conditions, decreases in information technology spending, lack of customer acceptance or competing technologies and products. Our future financial results would suffer if the demand for deduplication storage appliances does not continue to grow. 11 If we fail to predict accurately our manufacturing and component requirements, we could incur additional costs or experience manufacturing delays which would harm our business. Our agreement with our contract manufacturer, Flextronics, does not provide for specific quantities or inventory levels for our appliances or the components used in our appliances. Instead, we provide purchase orders to Flextronics on a monthly basis. If we overestimate our manufacturing needs, Flextronics may assess charges or we may have liabilities for excess or obsolete inventory. Conversely, because lead times for required materials and components vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms and demand for the particular component at any given time, if we underestimate our requirements, Flextronics may have inadequate materials and components required to produce our appliances. In that event, the manufacturing of our appliances could be interrupted, shipments could be delayed and revenue could be deferred or lost. Flextronics generally carries very little inventory of components for our appliances, and we rely on suppliers to deliver necessary components to Flextronics in a timely manner based on forecasts provided to the suppliers. Any shortages in components used in our appliances could delay shipment of our appliances or increase our product costs, which could harm our business. We may experience shortages in components that we use in our appliances, and we may not accurately predict the availability of and demand for such components. We rely on Flextronics to procure a majority of the components used in our appliances. As a result, any disruption in Flextronics’s ability to timely procure necessary components in the quantities required, or at reasonable prices, could result in a delay in the shipment of our appliances. Due to technological, pricing or business reasons, some of the components used in our appliances are available only from a single or limited source of supply. Flextronics generally carries very little inventory of components for our appliances, and we rely on suppliers to deliver necessary components to Flextronics in a timely manner based on forecasts provided to the suppliers. Our capacity expansion shelves and the chassis for our DD 690 appliance are currently supplied exclusively by a single vendor, Xyratex Technology Limited, or Xyratex. Neither our agreement with Xyratex, nor any agreement between Flextronics and Xyratex, provides for specific quantities or inventory levels of expansion shelves or the DD 690 chassis. Instead, Flextronics provides purchase orders to Xyratex on a monthly basis based on purchase orders we place with Flextronics and our forecasts. If Flextronics is unable to acquire the expansion shelves or DD 690 chassis from Xyratex for whatever reason, the manufacturing of our expansion shelves and DD 690 appliance could be interrupted and shipments could be delayed and revenue could be deferred or lost. Our agreement with Xyratex for expansion shelves has a three-year term ending in March 2010, subject to early termination by either party under certain circumstances. Our appliances depend on NVRAM cards that currently are only available from a single vendor, Curtiss-Wright Corporation. Neither we nor Flextronics has an agreement with Curtiss-Wright Corporation providing for specific quantities or inventory levels of NVRAM cards. We or Flextronics order NVRAM cards under a standard purchase order arrangement with Curtiss-Wright Corporation or its distributor. Our appliances depend on DiskOnModule (DOM) flash memory devices that are only available from a single vendor, PQI Corporation. Neither we nor Flextronics has an agreement with PQI Corporation providing for specific quantities or inventory levels of NVRAM cards. We or Flextronics order the PQI DOM under a standard purchase order arrangement with PQI Corporation or its distributor. Our appliances depend on microprocessors that are only available from a single vendor, Intel Corporation, and certain of our products rely on motherboards that are only available from Intel. Neither we nor Flextronics has an agreement with Intel providing for specific quantities or inventory levels of these components. We or Flextronics order these components under a standard purchase order arrangement with Intel or its distributor. We acquire the chassis used in our appliances other than the DD 690 from a single vendor, Super Micro Computer, Inc., or Super Micro. Neither we nor Flextronics has an agreement with Super Micro providing for specific quantities or inventory levels of chassis. We or Flextronics order chassis under a standard purchase order arrangement with Super Micro or its distributor. Significant time and effort would be required to locate new vendors for any of the foregoing components, if available at all, to qualify replacement components or to develop our appliances using alternative suppliers. The unavailability of any of these or other necessary components could delay or prevent us from shipping our appliances. Component suppliers may be vulnerable to pressure from large purchasers of their products, who may be competitors of ours, to allocate available component supplies to them. The global recession may also adversely affect our suppliers, including those on whom we are dependent as sole source suppliers, and their liquidity, and the availability of, and/or terms and conditions on which we purchase, their products and services. In addition, increased demand generally by third parties for the components we use in our appliances may lead to decreased availability and higher prices for those components. Further, we are dependent in some instances upon these sole source suppliers for support of their products, and for new product introductions, and we are subject to their end of life practices, including timing of product end of life, post end of life support, and last time buy notice, availability and pricing. If we experience shortages in components that we use in our appliances, or do not accurately predict the availability of and demand for such components, or if new product introductions by our suppliers do not meet our expectations for timing, availability, functionality/performance, quality or price, then our business and gross margins could be negatively impacted, and our reputation and customer relationships could be harmed. 12 We are dependent on a single contract manufacturer and changes to that relationship may result in delays or disruptions that could harm our business. We rely on a single independent contract manufacturer, Flextronics, to manufacture and assemble our appliances. We currently have an agreement in place with Flextronics that is subject to automatic extensions in one-year increments absent notice of termination by us or Flextronics. However, either party can terminate the agreement for any reason at any time with at least 90 days’ advance written notice. We may not be able to effectively manage our relationship with Flextronics, and Flextronics may not meet our future requirements for timely delivery. Our orders represent only a small percentage of the overall orders received by Flextronics from its customers. As a result, fulfilling our orders may not be considered a priority by Flextronics in the event it is constrained in its ability to fulfill all of its customer obligations in a timely manner. Although the services required to manufacture and assemble our appliances may be readily available from a number of other established contract manufacturers, it would be time consuming and costly to qualify and implement a new contract manufacturer relationship. Although we have a contingency plan in place with Flextronics in the event that its capacity at the location used to manufacture and assemble our appliances is reduced or temporarily eliminated, any event that disrupts the manufacturing and assembly process could harm our business. If Flextronics suffers an interruption in its business, or experiences delays, disruptions or quality control problems in its manufacturing operations, or if we have to change or add additional contract manufacturers, our ability to manufacture and ship appliances to our customers would be delayed and our business would suffer. We rely on a single third party to provide onsite hardware and repair and replacement services to a substantial majority of our customers, and any disruption to the availability of those services or their quality could harm our business. We subcontract with a third party, Glasshouse, Inc., or Glasshouse, to provide onsite hardware repair and replacement services for the substantial majority of our customers that have purchased a support and services contract from us. For each such covered customer, we purchase a support contract from Glasshouse. Our master agreement with Glasshouse has a three-year term ending in June 2010, except that after the initial 12 months, which ended in June 2008, either party may terminate the agreement by providing the other party with 90 days’ prior written notice. We may not be able to effectively manage our relationship with Glasshouse, and Glasshouse may not meet our future requirements for high quality, timely delivery of services. Although the break fix services performed by Glasshouse may be readily available from a number of other established suppliers, it could be time consuming and costly to qualify and implement a new supplier. If Glasshouse suffers an interruption in its business, or experiences delays, disruptions or quality control problems in its services, or if we have to change or add additional service providers, our ability to deliver high quality and timely break fix services to our customers could be delayed and our business and gross margins could be negatively impacted, and our reputation and customer relationships could be harmed. If we do not successfully anticipate market needs and develop products and product enhancements that meet those needs, or if those products do not gain market acceptance, our business will suffer. The market in which we currently operate is rapidly developing. We may not be able to anticipate future market needs or be able to develop new products or product enhancements to meet such needs, either in a timely manner or at all. Our business depends upon the introduction of successive new generations of products with improved performance, capacity and functionality. We anticipate that for future product introductions we will be required to establish new relationships with original design manufacturers (ODMs) and other suppliers on whom we will be dependent for design services, component supplies, manufacturing and support. Establishing new suppliers can be time consuming and costly, and new designs and new suppliers present risks of delay, costs, functionality/performance, quality and availability. If we fail to introduce successive new generations of products with improved the performance, capacity and functionality, and/or fail to successfully establish relationships with (ODMs) and other suppliers on whom we will be dependent for achieving our objectives, then our business and gross margins could be negatively impacted. We also may not be able to develop our products in a manner that enables us to successfully address the needs of other parts of the enterprise storage market. For example, we have recently introduced products for classes of applications other than backup and disaster recovery. These nearline classes of applications, such as archival storage and fixed-content data storage, manage largely static files and benefit from the fast storage and retrieval of disk-based systems, but do not require the performance characteristics of primary storage. Our failure to extend our deduplication technology into these nearline applications, particularly if our competitors are able to do so, could harm our business. In addition, any new products or product enhancements that we introduce may not achieve any significant degree of market acceptance or be accepted into our sales channel by our channel partners, which would harm our business. If we fail to offer high quality customer support and services, our business would suffer. Once our appliances are deployed within our customers’ networks, our customers depend on our support organization to resolve any issues relating to our appliances. A high level of customer support and services is important for the successful marketing and sale of our appliances. If we or our channel partners do not help our customers quickly resolve post-deployment issues and provide effective ongoing support, our ability to sell our appliances to existing customers would suffer and our reputation with potential customers would be harmed. Some of our international channel partners offer primary support for the appliances they sell to customers, and we rely on third parties to provide onsite hardware repair and replacement services for most of our customers. If the third parties fail to provide timely and effective services, our business could be harmed. As we expand our sales, we will be required to hire and train additional support personnel. In addition, as we expand our operations internationally, our support organization will face additional challenges including those associated with delivering support, training and documentation in languages other than English. If we fail to maintain high quality customer support or to grow our support organization to match any future sales growth, our business will suffer. If we elect to discount our support and services pricing to attract or retain customers, we may be required to defer a portion of our revenue to future periods. If we elect to discount our support and services pricing or otherwise introduce significant variability in our support and services arrangements, this variability may require us to defer the recognition of revenue from sales of our appliances. We recognize revenue for our appliances using the residual method as allowed by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, or AICPA, Statement of Position No. 98-9, Modification of SOP No. 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition, with Respect to Certain Transactions, or SOP 98-9. Under this method, in order to recognize product revenue upon shipment, we must establish sufficient evidence, which is referred to as vendor specific objective evidence, or VSOE, of fair value of our undelivered support and services. We have established VSOE of fair value of our support and services based on the price charged when support and services are sold separately. If we are required to change the pricing of support and services through discounting, or otherwise introduce variability in the pricing of support and services on certain transactions to attract or retain customers, we may be unable to maintain VSOE of the fair value of support and services for similar types of transactions. As a result, we could be required to defer all revenue for these transactions and recognize revenue ratably over the term of the related support and services contracts, which is typically one to three years. If this were to occur, our revenue would decline and our operating results would be negatively impacted. 13 Our appliances handle mission-critical data for our customers and are highly technical in nature. If customer data is lost or corrupted, or our appliances contain software errors or hardware defects, we could have product liability exposure and our reputation and business could be harmed. Our appliances are involved in storing and replicating mission-critical data for our customers. The process of storing and replicating that data is highly technical and complex. If any data is lost or corrupted in connection with the use of our appliances, our reputation could be seriously harmed and market acceptance of our appliances could suffer. In addition, our appliances have contained and may in the future contain software errors, hardware defects or security vulnerabilities. We rely on our suppliers to deliver high quality components for use in our products and we have limited or no control over our suppliers’ product development and production processes. Some software errors or defects in the hardware components of our appliances may only be discovered after an appliance has been installed and used by customers. In April 2007, we initiated a field replacement program to replace a circuit board used in some of our appliances. To date, these circuit boards have experienced failures in less than 1% of the appliances that we believe are potentially affected. All of the circuit boards that have failed were manufactured by fabricators that are no longer supplying parts for use in our appliances. Through the replacement program, we are offering to replace the potentially affected circuit boards with circuit boards manufactured by a particular fabricator. We accrued estimated warranty costs of $1.2 million in the first quarter of 2007 for this replacement program. We accrued an additional $450,000 in the third quarter of 2007 to expand this program for additional circuit boards used in some of our appliances. During the second quarter of 2008, we recorded an additional charge of $25,000 as we revised our estimate of the costs of the replacement program. These estimates were based on the number of circuit boards we expect to replace under the program, the anticipated cost of replacement and refurbishment and other associated costs. As of December 31, 2008, we had incurred approximately $1.6 million of costs associated with these field replacement programs and $68,000 remained in accrued liabilities to cover future costs for the units potentially affected. Although we believe our estimates and judgments for the replacement program are reasonable, if the problem is more extensive than we currently believe or the actual costs of the program otherwise exceed our estimate, our operating results will be negatively impacted. Any such errors, defects or security vulnerabilities discovered in our appliances after commercial release could result in loss of revenue, loss of customers, increased service and warranty cost, harm to our reputation and diversion of attention of our management and technical personnel, any of which could significantly harm our business. In addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort or breach of warranty. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management’s attention and adversely affect the market’s perception of us and our appliances. Changes in existing technologies or the emergence of new products or technologies could reduce demand for our appliances and significantly harm our business. Changes in existing technologies could cause demand for our appliances to decline. For example, if changes in technology result in a significant reduction in the price for hard disk drives, enterprises may not need to utilize deduplication storage in order to cost-effectively backup and protect their data. One or more new technologies also could be introduced that compete favorably with our appliances or that cause our appliances to no longer be of significant benefit to our customers. In addition, because our appliances work with enterprise backup software applications to transfer and store data in the protection storage environment, we are dependent on enterprises’ use of these applications for data protection and disaster recovery purposes. If enterprises adopt products or technologies that enable them to protect and recover their data without the need for backup software, demand for our appliances would be reduced significantly. The inability of our appliances to interoperate with backup software applications would cause our business to suffer. We have designed our appliances to interoperate with the leading enterprise backup software applications available in the market. If our appliances are not compatible with the leading backup software applications, demand for our appliances will decline. Some backup software providers currently offer products that compete with ours and other providers may do so in the future. Backup software providers may in the future make changes that would diminish the ability of our appliances to interoperate with their applications. If this were to occur, we may need to spend significant time and effort to ensure the continued compatibility of our appliances, which may not be possible at all. Any of these developments could significantly harm our business. Data formats may change in a way that reduces the value of our compression technologies. Our compression technologies have been designed to work well for data formats commonly seen in customer data centers today. The format of data stored on our appliances may change in ways that reduce the benefit of our compression technologies. Such format changes could result from changes in the applications that create or transmit the data, changes in the systems that store the data, or changes in policies concerning data encryption, compression, or encoding. For example, some potential customers in the past have employed encryption or compression technologies that they were unable or unwilling to disable and therefore did not find the benefits of our Global Compression technologies compelling. If the number of such potential customers were to increase significantly in the future, our business could suffer. 14 The U.S. government has become an important customer for us, and if it or individual agencies within the U.S. government reduce or shift their capital spending pattern, our financial results may be harmed. The U.S. government has become an important customer for us. Government agencies are subject to budgetary processes and expenditure constraints, which constraints could increase due to current economic conditions, that could lead to delays or decreased capital expenditures in information technology spending on infrastructures. If the U.S. government or individual agencies within the U.S. government reduce or shift their capital spending pattern, our financial results may be harmed. Our sales to the U.S. government may involve longer sales cycles than is typical of our non-government customers, increasing the likelihood that an order may not occur in the quarter in which we had anticipated the sale, if at all. In addition, our sales to the U.S. government require us to comply with U.S. laws applicable to enterprises and products that are offered for sale to the U.S. government. Any failure by us to comply with and manage these obligations could result in a reduction or delay in sales to the U.S government, or result in fines and penalties. If we fail to establish and maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting, our operating results and our ability to operate our business could be harmed. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires, among other things, that we establish and maintain internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. We performed, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, system and process evaluations and testing of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and our management reported that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2008. However, if in the future we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our common stock could decline and we could be subject to investigations or sanctions by the SEC, the NASDAQ Stock Market, or NASDAQ, or other regulatory authorities or subject to litigation. To the extent any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting are identified in the future, we could be required to expend significant management time and financial resources to correct such material weaknesses or to respond to any resulting regulatory investigations or proceedings. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed, and we could be required to incur significant expenses to enforce our rights. We depend on our ability to protect our proprietary technology. We rely on trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark laws and confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties, all of which offer only limited protection. Despite our efforts, the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to preclude misappropriation of our proprietary information or infringement of our intellectual property rights, and our ability to police such misappropriation or infringement is uncertain, particularly in countries outside of the United States. Further, we do not know whether any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents or whether the examination process will require us to narrow our claims. Even issued patents may be contested, circumvented or invalidated. Moreover, the rights granted under any issued patents may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages, and, as with any technology, competitors may be able to develop similar or superior technologies to our own now or in the future. In addition, we have entered into a cross-license agreement with Quantum, a competitor of ours, that provides Quantum and its controlled affiliates a license to our current and future patents that relate to or are useful with respect to data transmission or data storage and that are or may be issued or applied for (or otherwise entitled to a priority date) on or prior to January 1, 2012. As a result of this agreement, we will not be able to assert our existing patent rights and many or all of our future patent rights against Quantum or its controlled affiliates for the foreseeable future, and Quantum has certain rights to assign this license to an acquirer of Quantum. It is also possible that we may find it necessary or advantageous to enter into similar cross licenses in the future with other actual or potential competitors. Protecting against the unauthorized use of our patents, trademarks and other proprietary rights is expensive, difficult and, in some cases, impossible. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation could be costly and divert management resources, either of which could harm our business. Furthermore, many of our current and potential competitors have the ability to dedicate substantially greater resources to enforce their intellectual property rights than we do. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. Claims by others that we infringe their proprietary technology could harm our business. Third parties could claim that our appliances or technology infringe their proprietary rights. We expect that infringement claims may increase as the number of products and competitors in our market increases and overlaps occur. In addition, to the extent that we gain greater visibility and market exposure as a public company, we face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property infringement claims. Any claims of infringement by a third party, even those without merit, could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim, and could distract our management from our business. Furthermore, a party making such a claim, if successful, could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages. A judgment could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from offering our appliances. In addition, we might be required to seek a license for the use of such intellectual property, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Alternatively, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense and may ultimately not be successful. Any of these events could seriously harm our business. Third parties may also assert infringement claims relating to our appliances against our customers and channel partners. Any of these claims may require us to initiate or defend potentially protracted and costly litigation on their behalf, regardless of the merits of these claims, because we generally are obligated to indemnify our channel partners and our customers, from claims of infringement of proprietary rights of third parties. If any of these claims succeed, we may be forced to pay damages to, or on behalf of, our customers or channel partners, which could seriously harm our business. Our use of open source software could impose limitations on our ability to commercialize our appliances. We incorporate open source software into our appliances. The terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by United States courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our appliances. In that event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our appliances, to re-engineer our appliances, to discontinue the sale of our appliances in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis or to litigate any disputes relating to our use of open source software, any of which could harm our business. 15 Our business is subject to increasingly complex environmental legislation that has increased both our costs and the risk of noncompliance and may continue to do so in the future. We face increasing complexity in the design and manufacture of our appliances as we adjust to new and upcoming requirements relating to the materials composition of many of our appliances. For example, the European Union, or EU, has adopted certain directives to facilitate the recycling of electrical and electronic equipment sold in the EU, including the Restriction on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment, or RoHS, directive. The RoHS directive restricts the use of lead, mercury and certain other substances in electrical and electronic products placed on the market in the EU. A companion EU directive, the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive imposes responsibility for the collection, recycling and recovery for certain electrical and electronic products on the manufacturers of such equipment. We have incurred costs to comply with these regulations in the past and could incur additional costs in the future. In addition, compliance with these regulations could disrupt our operations and logistics. We will need to ensure that we can design and manufacture compliant appliances and that we can be assured a supply of compliant components from suppliers. Similar laws and regulations have been proposed or may be enacted in other regions, including the United States, Australia, Canada, China, Korea and Japan. These and other environmental regulations may require us to reengineer our appliances to utilize new components that are compatible with these regulations, which may result in additional costs to us. We may not generate positive returns on our research and development investments. Developing our products is expensive, and our investment in product development may involve a long investment return cycle. For the year ended December 31, 2008, our research and development expenses were $41.0 million, or approximately 15% of revenue. Our future plans include significant investments in research and development and related product opportunities. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. These investments may not generate positive returns in the near term, or at all. We may engage in future acquisitions that could disrupt our business, cause dilution to our stockholders and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In the future we may acquire other businesses, products or technologies. We have not made any acquisitions to date and, as a result, our ability as an organization to make acquisitions is unproven. We may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates and we may not be able to complete acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. If we do complete acquisitions, we may not ultimately strengthen our competitive position or achieve our goals, and any acquisitions we complete could be viewed negatively by customers, financial markets or investors. In addition, any acquisitions that we make could lead to difficulties in integrating personnel and operations from the acquired businesses and in retaining and motivating key personnel from these businesses. Acquisitions may disrupt our ongoing operations, divert management from day-to-day responsibilities, increase our expenses and harm our business. Future acquisitions may also reduce our cash available for operations and other uses and could result in an increase in amortization expense related to identifiable assets acquired, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to compliance efforts. As a public company, we incur significant legal, audit, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and NASDAQ, impose additional requirements on public companies, including enhanced corporate governance practices. For example, the NASDAQ listing requirements require that listed companies satisfy certain corporate governance requirements relating to independent directors, audit committees, distribution of annual and interim reports, stockholder meetings, stockholder approvals, solicitation of proxies, conflicts of interest, stockholder voting rights and codes of business conduct. Our management and other personnel are required to devote a substantial amount of time to these requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and have made some activities more time-consuming and costly. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors and board committees or as executive officers. Our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fire, floods and other natural catastrophic events, and to interruption by man-made problems such as computer viruses or terrorism. Our corporate headquarters and the operations of the contract manufacturer for our appliances are located in the San Francisco Bay Area, a region known for seismic activity. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire or a flood, could harm our business. In addition, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. In addition, acts of terrorism or war could cause disruptions in our or our customers’ business or the economy as a whole. To the extent that such disruptions result in delays or cancellations of customer orders, or delay the manufacture and shipment of our appliances, our business would be harmed. 16 Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and is likely to be volatile in the future. The trading prices of our common stock as well as the securities of other technology companies have been highly volatile, particularly in the last several months as a result of deteriorating economic conditions. Further, our common stock has a limited trading history. Factors affecting the trading price of our common stock could include: · variations in our operating results; · announcements of technological innovations, new products and services, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors; · recruitment or departure of key personnel; · changes in the estimates of our operating results or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that elect to follow our common stock; · market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers and the economy as a whole; and · adoption or modification of regulations, policies, procedures or programs applicable to our business. In addition, if the market for technology stocks or the stock market in general continues to experience a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could continue to decline for reasons unrelated to our business, operating results or financial condition. The trading price of our common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry even if these events do not directly affect us, or in reaction to reports from industry analysts about us or our competitors or others in the technology industry generally. Some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have had securities class actions filed against them. A suit filed against us, regardless of its merits or outcome, could cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert management’s attention. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company and may affect the trading price of our common stock. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. Our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws: · authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt; · establish a classified board of directors, as a result of which the successors to the directors whose terms have expired will be elected to serve from the time of election and qualification until the third annual meeting following their election; · require that directors only be removed from office for cause; · provide that vacancies on the board of directors, including newly created directorships, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office; · limit who may call special meetings of stockholders; · prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; and · require supermajority stockholder voting to effect certain amendments to our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws. 17 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 