ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the risks and uncertainties we discuss elsewhere in this Form 10-K (particularly in “Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”) or in our other filings with the SEC, the following are some important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those we project in any forward-looking statement. We cannot guarantee that our actual results will be consistent with the forward-looking statements we make in this report, and we do not assume an obligation to update any forward-looking statement. Adverse business and economic conditions may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial position. General economic conditions adversely affect the demand and production of consumer goods, employment levels, the availability and cost of credit, and ultimately, the profitability of our business. High unemployment rates, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment, and lower consumer spending typically result in decreased demand for our products. These conditions are beyond our control and may have a significant impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial position. Risks Related to Industry Conditions The paper industry experiences cyclicality; changes in the prices of our products could materially affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Historically, macroeconomic conditions and fluctuations in industry capacity have created cyclical changes in 14 Table of Contents prices, sales volumes, and margins for our products. Changing industry conditions can influence paper and packaging producers to idle or permanently close individual machines or entire mills. In addition, to avoid substantial cash costs in connection with idling or closing a mill, some producers will choose to continue to operate at a loss, sometimes even a cash loss, which could prolong weak pricing environments due to oversupply. Oversupply in these markets can also result from producers introducing new capacity in response to favorable short-term pricing trends. Industry supply is also influenced by overseas production capacity, which has grown in recent years and is expected to continue to grow. A weak U.S. dollar tends to mitigate the levels of imports, while a strong U.S. dollar tends to increase imports of commodity paper products from overseas, putting downward pressure on prices. Prices for all of our products are driven by many factors outside our control, and we have little influence over the timing and extent of price changes, which are often volatile. Market conditions beyond our control determine the prices for our commodity products, and as a result, the price for any one or more of these products may fall below our cash production costs, requiring us to either incur short-term losses on product sales or cease production at one or more of our manufacturing facilities. From time to time, we have taken downtime (or slowed production) at some of our mills to balance our production with the market demand for our products, and we may continue to do so in the future. Some of our competitors may also close or reduce production at their operating facilities, some of which could reopen and increase production capacity. This potential supply and demand imbalance could cause prices to fall. Therefore, our ability to achieve acceptable operating performance and margins is principally dependent on managing our cost structure, managing changes in raw materials prices (which represent a large component of our operating costs and fluctuate based upon factors beyond our control), and general conditions in the paper market. If the prices for our products decline or if our raw material costs increase, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Some of our paper products are vulnerable to long-term declines in demand due to competing technologies or materials. Our uncoated freesheet papers and newsprint compete with electronic data transmission, document storage alternatives, and paper grades we do not produce. Increasing shifts to these alternatives have had and are likely to continue to have an adverse effect on traditional print media and paper usage. Neither the timing nor the extent of this shift can be predicted with certainty. Because of these trends, demand for paper products may shift from one grade of paper to another or be eliminated altogether. We face strong competition in our markets. The paper and packaging and newsprint industries are highly competitive. We face competition from numerous competitors, domestic as well as foreign. Some of our competitors are large, vertically integrated companies that have greater financial and other resources, greater manufacturing economies of scale, greater energy self-sufficiency, or lower operating costs, compared with our company. We may be unable to compete with other companies in the market during the various stages of the business cycle and particularly during any downturns. Some of the factors that may adversely affect our ability to compete in the markets in which we participate include the entry of new competitors (including foreign producers) into the markets we serve, our competitors’ pricing strategies, our failure to anticipate and respond to changing customer preferences, and our inability to maintain the cost-efficiency of our facilities. Increases in the cost of our raw materials, including wood fiber, chemicals, and energy could affect our profitability. We rely heavily on raw materials, including wood fiber and chemicals, and energy sources, including natural gas and electricity. Our profitability has been, and will continue to be, affected by changes in the costs and availability of such raw materials. For most of our products, the relationship between industry supply and demand, rather than changes in the cost of raw materials, determines our ability to increase prices. Consequently, we may be unable to pass 15 Table of Contents increases in our operating costs on to our customers in the short term. Any sustained increase in raw material costs, coupled with our inability to increase prices, would reduce our operating margins and potentially require us to limit or cease operations of one or more of our machines or facilities. Wood fiber is our principal raw material, accounting for approximately 27% and 17%, respectively, of the aggregate amount of materials, labor, and other operating expenses, including fiber costs, for our Paper and Packaging segments for the year ended December 31, 2009. Wood fiber is a commodity, and prices have historically been cyclical. In addition, wood fiber, including wood chips, sawdust, and shavings, is a byproduct in the manufacture of building products, and the availability of wood fiber is often negatively affected if demand for building products declines. Severe or sustained shortages of fiber could cause us to curtail our own operations, resulting in material and adverse effects on our sales and profitability. Future domestic or foreign legislation and litigation concerning the use of timberlands, the protection of endangered species, and forest health can also affect log and fiber supply. Energy accounts for approximately 12% and 10%, respectively, of the aggregate amount of materials, labor, and other operating expenses, including fiber costs, for our Paper and Packaging segments for the year ended December 31, 2009. Energy prices, particularly for electricity, natural gas, and fuel oil, have been volatile in recent years. These fluctuations affect our manufacturing costs and can contribute significantly to earnings volatility. Other raw materials we use include various chemical compounds, such as starch, caustic soda, precipitated calcium carbonate, sodium chlorate, and dyes. Purchases of chemicals accounted for approximately 15% and 7%, respectively, of the aggregate amount of materials, labor, and other operating expenses, including fiber costs, for our Paper and Packaging segments for the year ended December 31, 2009. The costs of these chemicals have been volatile historically and are influenced by capacity utilization, energy prices, and other factors beyond our control. Risks Related to Our Operations We depend on OfficeMax for a significant portion of our business. Our largest customer, OfficeMax, accounted for approximately 28% of our total sales for the year ended December 31, 2009. In October 2004, OfficeMax agreed to purchase, from our Predecessor, its full North American requirements for cut-size office paper, to the extent Boise chooses to supply such paper to them, through December 2012. If this contract is not renewed or not renewed on terms similar to the existing terms, our future business operations may be adversely affected. If OfficeMax were unable to pay, our financial performance could be affected significantly and negatively. Any significant deterioration in the financial condition of OfficeMax or a significant change in its business that would affect its willingness to continue to purchase our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. A material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales, or negatively affect our net income. Any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including the following: • Maintenance outages. • Prolonged power failures. • Equipment failure. • Disruption in the supply of raw materials, such as wood fiber, energy, or chemicals. • A chemical spill or release. • Closure because of environmental-related concerns. 16 Table of Contents • Explosion of a boiler. • The effect of a drought or reduced rainfall on our water supply. • Disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including roads, bridges, railroad tracks, and tunnels. • Fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes, or other catastrophes. • Terrorism or threats of terrorism. • Labor difficulties. • Other operational problems. Any such downtime or facility damage could prevent us from meeting customer demand for our products or require us to make unplanned capital expenditures. If our machines or facilities were to incur significant downtime, our ability to meet our production capacity targets and satisfy customer requirements would be impaired, resulting in lower sales and having a negative effect on our financial results. Labor disruptions or increased labor costs could materially adversely affect our business. While we believe we have good labor relations, we could experience a material labor disruption, strike, or significantly increased labor costs at one or more of our facilities, either in the course of negotiations of a labor agreement or otherwise. Either of these situations could prevent us from meeting customer demands or result in increased costs, thereby reducing our sales and profitability. As of January 31, 2010, we had approximately 4,100 employees. Approximately 60% of these employees work pursuant to collective bargaining agreements. As of January 31, 2010, approximately 33% of our employees were working pursuant to collective bargaining agreements that have expired or will expire within one year, including agreements at the following facility locations: Wallula, Washington; DeRidder, Louisiana; Jackson, Alabama; St. Helens, Oregon; and Nampa, Idaho. The labor contract at our paper mill in Wallula, Washington (332 employees represented by the AWPPW) expired in March 2009 and was terminated by the AWPPW on October 31, 2009. In early February 2010, the union employees at Wallula rejected a new collective bargaining agreement that union leadership had recommended unanimously. On February 22, 2010, the company declared an impasse in the bargaining process and implemented the terms of the last contract offer. Our potential inability to reach a mutually acceptable labor contract at Wallula, or at any of our other facilities, could result in, among other things, strikes or other work stoppages or slowdowns by the affected employees. While the company has in place contingency plans to address labor disturbances, we could experience disruption to our operations that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Future labor agreements could increase our costs of healthcare, retirement benefits, wages, and other employee benefits. Additionally, labor issues that affect our suppliers could also have a material adverse effect on us if those issues interfere with our ability to obtain raw materials on a cost-effective and timely basis. We are subject to significant environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations, and the cost of compliance could adversely affect our business and results of operation. We are subject to a wide range of general and industry-specific environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we may face civil or criminal fines, penalties, or enforcement actions, including orders limiting our operations or requiring corrective measures, installation of pollution control equipment, or other remedial actions. We anticipate that governmental regulation of our operations will continue to become more burdensome and that we will continue to incur significant capital and operating expenditures in order to maintain compliance with applicable laws. For example, we may be affected if laws concerning 17 Table of Contents climate change are enacted that regulate greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Such laws may require buying allowances for mill GHG emissions or capital expenditures to reduce GHG emissions. Because environmental regulations are not consistent worldwide, our capital and operating expenditures for environmental compliance may adversely affect our ability to compete. During the year ended December 31, 2009, capital expenditures for environmental compliance were $2.2 million. We expect to spend approximately $1.4 million on environmental items in 2010. Enactment of new environmental laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations might require significant additional expenditures. We may be unable to generate funds or other sources of liquidity and capital to fund unforeseen environmental liabilities or expenditures. We may engage in future acquisitions that could materially affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. We may seek to acquire other businesses, products, or assets. However, we may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates, and we may not be able to complete acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. If we do complete acquisitions, we may not strengthen our competitive position or achieve our goals. Acquisitions may disrupt our ongoing operations, divert management from day-to-day responsibilities, increase our expenses, and adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Future acquisitions may reduce our cash available for operations and other uses. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage the integration of acquired businesses effectively or be able to retain and motivate key personnel from those businesses. Any difficulties we encounter in the integration process could increase our expenses and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Risks Related to Economic and Financial Factors We have substantial indebtedness, and our ability to repay our debt is dependent on our ability to generate cash from operations. As of December 31, 2009, our total indebtedness was $815.9 million. Our ability to repay our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures depends on our ability to generate cash from future operations. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors that are beyond our control. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, to obtain additional debt, or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our operations require substantial capital, and we may not have adequate capital resources to provide for all of our capital requirements. Our businesses are capital-intensive, and we regularly incur capital expenditures to maintain our equipment, increase our operating efficiency, and comply with environmental laws. In addition, significant amounts of capital are required to modify our equipment to produce alternative or additional products or to make significant improvements in the characteristics of our current products. During the year ended December 31, 2009, our total capital expenditures, excluding acquisitions, were $77.1 million. We expect to spend approximately $100 million on capital expenditures for 2010. We currently expect our capital expenditures, excluding acquisitions, to be between $90 million and $120 million annually over the next five years. If we require funds for operating needs and capital expenditures beyond those generated from operations, we may not be able to obtain them on favorable terms or at all. In addition, our debt service obligations will reduce our available cash flows. If we cannot maintain or upgrade our equipment as necessary for our continued operations or as needed to ensure environmental compliance, we could be required to cease or curtail some of our manufacturing operations, or we may become unable to manufacture products that can compete effectively in one or more of our markets. 18 Table of Contents Our indebtedness imposes restrictive covenants on us, and a default under our debt agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Our credit facilities require BZ Intermediate Holdings LLC (Holdings) and its subsidiaries to maintain specified financial ratios and to satisfy certain financial tests. These tests include, in the case of our credit facilities, an interest coverage ratio test, a first lien secured leverage ratio test, and a total leverage ratio test. In addition, our credit facilities restrict, and the indenture governing the 9% senior notes restrict, among other things, the ability of Holdings and its subsidiaries to create additional liens on assets, make investments or acquisitions, pay dividends, incur additional indebtedness, sell assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries, make capital expenditures, place restrictions on the ability of such subsidiaries to make distributions, enter into transactions with our affiliates, enter into new lines of business, and engage in consolidations, mergers, or sales of substantially all of our assets. We will need to seek permission from the lenders under our indebtedness to engage in specified corporate actions. The lenders’ interests may be different from our interests, and no assurance can be given that we will be able to obtain the lenders’ permission when needed. Various risks, uncertainties, and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with these covenants. Failure to comply with these covenants (or similar covenants contained in future financing agreements) could result in a default under the credit facilities, the indenture governing the 9% senior notes, and other agreements containing cross-default provisions, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. A default would permit lenders or holders to accelerate the maturity of the debt under these agreements, to foreclose upon any collateral securing the debt, and to terminate any commitments to lend. Under these circumstances, we might not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations, including the obligations of Boise Paper Holdings, L.L.C., and Boise Finance Company under the 9% senior notes. In addition, the limitations imposed by financing agreements on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions might significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing. We anticipate significant future funding obligations for pension benefits. In December 2008, we enacted a freeze on our defined benefit pension plan for salaried employees (the Salaried Plan); however, we continue to maintain defined benefit pension plans for most of our union employees. Despite the freeze of the Salaried Plan, we will continue to have significant obligations for pension benefits. As of December 31, 2009, our pension assets had a market value of $302 million, compared with $248 million at December 31, 2008. Assuming a return on plan assets of 7.25% in 2010 and 2011, we estimate we will be required to contribute approximately $2 million in 2010 and approximately $22 million in 2011. The amount of required contributions will depend, among other things, on actual returns on plan assets, changes in interest rates that affect our discount rate assumptions, changes in pension funding requirement laws, and modifications to our plans. Our estimates may change materially depending upon the impact of these and other factors, and the amount of our contributions may adversely affect our cash flows, financial condition, and results of operations. Boise Cascade holds 21.7% of our common stock as of January 29, 2010, and may influence our affairs. As a result of its ownership, Boise Cascade has representation on our board of directors and may significantly influence our policies, business, and affairs. As long as the holders of Boise Registrable Securities (as such term is defined in the Investor Rights Agreement dated February 22, 2008, entered into by and among us, Boise Cascade, and other stockholders named therein (the Investor Rights Agreement) in connection with the Acquisition) control 33% or more of our common stock that was issued to Boise Cascade at the closing of the Acquisition, we will be subject to restrictions on our business activities pursuant to the terms of the Investor Rights Agreement. More specifically, for so long as the 33% ownership threshold is met or exceeded, the Investor Rights Agreement will restrict us from conducting specified activities or taking specified 19 Table of Contents actions without the affirmative written consent of the holders of a majority of the Boise Registrable Securities then outstanding. The restricted activities include, without limitation, making distributions on our equity securities; redemptions, purchases, or acquisitions of our equity securities; issuances or sales of equity securities or securities exchangeable for, or convertible to, equity securities; issuing debt or convertible/exchangeable debt securities; making loans, advances, or guarantees; mergers and acquisitions; asset sales; liquidations; recapitalizations; nonordinary business activities; making changes to our organizational documents; making changes to arrangements with our officers, directors, employees, and other related persons; incurrence of indebtedness for borrowed money or capital leases above specified thresholds; and consummating the sale of the Company. Additionally, pursuant to affirmative covenants under the Investor Rights Agreement (and subject to the same 33% ownership threshold), unless the holders of a majority of the Boise Registrable Securities then outstanding have otherwise consented in writing, we are required to perform specified activities, including, without limitation, preservation of our corporate existence and material licenses, authorizations and permits necessary to the conduct of our business, maintenance of our material properties, discharge of certain statutory liens, performance under material contracts, compliance with applicable laws and regulations, preservation of adequate insurance coverage, and maintenance of proper books of record and account. If Boise Cascade disposes of a significant number of shares of our common stock, it could adversely affect the market price of our common stock or our ability to raise future capital. We have filed a registration statement with the SEC pursuant to which Boise Cascade may publicly sell all or a portion of the shares of our common stock that it holds. In November 2009, we completed a secondary offering of Boise Cascade’s common stock holding, thus reducing their ownership from 42.5% to 21.7%. Boise Cascade will continue to review its investment in Boise Inc. in light of current market conditions, its long-term investment objectives, and its financing needs and, based on its review of such factors, may determine to sell additional shares of our common stock owned by it through market or privately negotiated transactions. Such sales could be for a significant number of shares and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock or our ability to raise future capital. On December 15, 2009, Boise Cascade announced its intention to further reduce its holdings by an additional 8 million shares by entering into a trading plan under SEC rules. Sales under this trading plan commenced February 16, 2010. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have no unresolved comments. 