Item 1A. Risk Factors Our pending Merger with F.N.B. Corporation is not guaranteed to occur. Compliance with the terms of the Merger Agreement in the interim could adversely affect our business. If the Merger does not occur, it could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and our stock price. On June 13, 2013, the Company entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) with F.N.B. Corporation (“FNB”), the parent company of First National Bank of Pennsylvania (“FNB Bank”). Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, the Company will merge with and into FNB (the “Merger”). Promptly following consummation of the Merger, it is expected that Baltimore County Savings Bank will merge with and into FNB Bank. In the Merger, shareholders of the Company will receive 2.080 shares (the “Exchange Ratio”) of FNB common stock for each common share of the Company they own. Consummation of the Merger is subject to certain conditions, including, among others, approval of the Merger by the Company’s shareholders, the receipt of all required governmental filings and regulatory approvals and expiration of applicable waiting periods, accuracy of specified representations and warranties of each party, the performance in all material respects by each party of its obligations under the Merger Agreement, effectiveness of the registration statement to be filed by FNB with the SEC to register shares of FNB common stock to be offered to Company shareholders, receipt of tax opinions, and the absence of any injunctions or other legal restraints. As a result of the pending Merger: (i) the attention of management and employees may be diverted from day to day operations as they focus on matters relating to preparation for integrating the Company’s operations with those of FNB; (ii) the restrictions and limitations on the conduct of the Company’s business pending the Merger may disrupt or otherwise adversely affect its business and our relationships with its customers, and may not be in the best interests of the Company if it were to have to act as an independent entity following a termination of the Merger Agreement; (iii) the Company’s ability to retain its existing employees may be adversely affected due to the uncertainties created by the Merger; and (iv) the Company’s ability to maintain existing customer relationships, or to establish new ones, may be adversely affected. Any delay in consummating the Merger may exacerbate these issues. There can be no assurance that all of the conditions to closing will be satisfied, or where possible, waived, or that the Merger will become effective. If the Merger does not become effective because all conditions to closing are not satisfied, or because one of the parties, or all of the parties mutually, terminate the Merger Agreement, then, among other possible adverse effects: (i) the Company’s shareholders will not receive the consideration which FNB has agreed to pay; (ii) the Company’s stock price may decline significantly; (iii) the Company’s business may have been adversely affected; (iv) the Company will have incurred significant transaction costs; and (v) under certain circumstances, the Company may have to pay FNB a termination fee of $3.25 million. 33 Table of Contents The Bank’s increased emphasis on commercial real estate and non-owner occupied residential real estate lending may expose it to increased lending risks. In recent years, the Bank has significantly increased its emphasis on commercial real estate lending. Commercial real estate loans, which includes commercial construction and commercial lines of credit increased to $145.7 million, or 43.2% of its total loans, at September 30, 2013. Moreover, as part of the Bank’s strategy to increase earnings, it will seek to continue to increase commercial real estate lending, as well as commercial lending, and intends to add commercial lending personnel to assist in these efforts. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than single-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers and, for construction loans, the accuracy of the estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction and the estimated cost of construction. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to single-family residential mortgage loans. Commercial business loans expose the Bank to additional risks since they typically are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayments from the cash flow of the borrower’s business and are secured by non-real estate collateral that may depreciate over time. In addition, since such loans generally entail greater risk than single-family residential mortgage loans, the Bank may need to increase its allowance for loan losses in the future to account for the possible increase in credit losses associated with the growth of such loans. Also, many of the Bank’s commercial and construction borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with the Bank. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose the Bank to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a single-family residential mortgage loan. In addition, in prior years, the Bank significantly increased its portfolio of non-owner occupied residential real estate lending. Non-owner occupied residential real estate loans represents $59.3 million, or 17.6% of total loans, at September 30, 2013. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than owner occupied residential real estate loans since the collateral for owner occupants is their personal residence. In addition, non-owner occupied residential real estate loans expose the Bank to additional risks since they typically are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayments from the cash flow of the rental properties. Since such loans generally entail greater risk than single-family residential mortgage loans, the Bank may need to increase its allowance for loan losses in the future to account for the possible increase in credit losses associated with the growth of such loans. The bulk of the new nonperforming loans during the twelve months ended September 30, 2013 relates to non-owner occupied residential real estate loans. The Bank’s nonperforming non-owner occupied residential real estate loans totaled $3.0 million at September 30, 2013. For further information about nonperforming non-owner occupied residential real estate loans, see “Item 1. Business – Lending Activities-Nonperforming Loans and Other Problem Assets.” Changes in interest rates could reduce the Bank’s net interest income and earnings. The Bank’s net interest income is the interest it earns on loans and investments less the interest it pays on its deposits and borrowings. The net interest margin is the difference between the yield the Bank earns on its assets and the interest rate it pays for deposits and its other sources of funding. Changes in interest rates—up or down—could adversely affect the Bank’s net interest margin and, as a result, its net interest income. Although the yield the Bank earns on its assets and its funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing the Bank’s net interest margin to expand or contract. Liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than the Bank’s assets, so they may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates. As a result, when interest rates rise, the Bank’s funding costs may rise faster than the yield it earns on its assets, causing the Bank’s net interest margin to contract until the yield catches up. Changes in the slope of the “yield curve”—or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates—could also reduce net interest margin. Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. Because the Bank’s liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than its assets, when the yield curve flattens or even inverts, the Bank could experience pressure on its net interest margin as its cost of funds increases relative to the yield that can be earned on its assets. See “Asset/Liability Management.” A further downturn in the local economy or a further decline in real estate values could hurt our profits. Much of the Bank’s loans are in Baltimore, Harford and Howard Counties and Baltimore City in Maryland. As a result, a downturn in the local economy, and, particularly, a downturn in real estate values, could cause significant increases in nonperforming loans, which would adversely affect profits. Additionally, a decrease in asset 34 Table of Contents quality could require additions to the Bank’s allowance for loan losses through increased provisions for loan losses, which would negatively affect profits. A decline in real estate values could also cause some of the Bank’s mortgage loans to become inadequately collateralized, which would expose it to a greater risk of loss. Overall Loan Portfolio reductions could negatively impact earnings. Limited loan origination volume could negatively impact earnings. The Bank’s loan portfolio is its largest asset and produces most of the income generated by the Company. The portfolio has declined in recent years primarily due to limited loan production. Continued decline in loan originations and a resultant decline in the overall loan portfolio could negatively impact earnings. If we conclude that the decline in value of any of our investment securities is other than temporary, we are required to write down the value of that security through a charge to earnings. We review our investment securities portfolio at each quarter-end reporting period to determine whether the fair value is below the current carrying value. When the fair value of any of our investment securities has declined below its carrying value, we are required to assess whether the decline is other-than-temporary. If we conclude that the decline is other-than-temporary, we are required to write down the value of that security through a charge to earnings. As of September 30, 2013, our mortgage-backed securities portfolio including private label CMO’s included securities with a book value of $227.6 million and an estimated fair value of $220.0 million. Changes in the expected cash flows of these securities and/or prolonged price declines may result in our concluding in future periods that the impairment of these securities is other than temporary, which would require a charge to earnings to write down theses securities to their fair value. The Company could be exposed to realized losses if these securities were to be sold in the future. Our allowance for loan losses may be inadequate, which could hurt our earnings. When borrowers default and do not repay the loans that we make to them, the Bank may incur a loss. The allowance for loan losses is the amount estimated by management as necessary to cover probable losses in the loan portfolio at the statement of financial condition date. The allowance is established through the provision for loan losses, which is charged to income. Determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses necessarily involves a high degree of judgment. Among the material estimates required to establish the allowance are: loss exposure at default; the amount and timing of future cash flows on impacted loans; value of collateral; and determination of loss factors to be applied to the various elements of the portfolio. If our estimates and judgments regarding such matters prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses might not be sufficient, and additional loan loss provisions might need to be made. Depending on the amount of such loan loss provisions, the adverse impact on our earnings could be material. In addition, bank regulators may require us to make a provision for loan losses or otherwise recognize further loan charge-offs following their periodic review of our loan portfolio, our underwriting procedures, and our loan loss allowance. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by such regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Please see “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” for a discussion of the procedures we follow in establishing our loan loss allowance. Strong competition within Baltimore County Savings Bank’s market area could adversely affect profits and slow growth. The Bank faces intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for the Bank to make new loans and at times has forced us to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in the Bank earning less on loans and paying more on deposits, which would reduce net interest income. Some of the institutions with which it competes have substantially greater resources and lending limits than the Bank has and may offer services that the Bank does not provide. The Bank expects competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. The Bank’s profitability depends upon its continued ability to compete successfully in its market area. 35 Table of Contents The Bank and Company operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. The Bank and the Company are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve Board, their respective primary federal regulators, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of the Bank’s deposits. The Bank is also supervised and regulated by the Maryland Office of the Commissioner of Financial Regulation. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of the Bank rather than holders of the Company’s common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on operations. Financial regulatory reform may have a material impact on our operations. The Dodd-Frank Act enacted in 2010 has significantly changed the current bank regulatory structure and affected the lending, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Federal Reserve Board to set minimum capital levels for bank holding companies that are as stringent as those required for insured depository institutions, and the components of Tier 1 capital would be restricted to capital instruments that are currently considered to be Tier 1 capital for insured depository institutions. The legislation also establishes a floor for capital of insured depository institutions that cannot be lower than the standards in effect today, and directs the federal banking regulators to implement new leverage and capital requirements that take into account off-balance sheet activities and other risks, including risks relating to securitized products and derivatives. The Dodd-Frank Act also created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10.0 billion in assets. Banks and savings institutions with $10.0 billion or less in assets will be examined by their applicable bank regulators. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act will increase stockholder influence over boards of directors by requiring certain public companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments, and by authorizing the Securities and Exchange Commission to promulgate rules that would allow shareholders to nominate and solicit votes for their own candidates using a company’s proxy materials. It remains difficult to predict what impact this legislation and implementing regulations will have on institutions such as Baltimore County Savings Bank, including on our lending and credit practices. Moreover, significant provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are not yet effective, and the legislation requires various federal agencies to promulgate numerous and extensive implementing regulations over the next several years. Although the substance and scope of these regulations cannot be determined at this time, it is expected that the legislation and implementing regulations may increase our operating and compliance costs in the future. The market price of our common stock may be materially adversely affected by market volatility. Many publicly traded financial services companies have recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance or prospects of such companies. We may experience market fluctuations that are not directly related to our operating performance, but are influenced by the market’s perception of the state of the financial services industry in general and, in particular, the market’s assessment of general credit quality conditions, including default and foreclosure rates in the industry. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 36 Table of Contents 