Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K, and in other documents we file with the SEC, are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K. Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance should not be considered as a reliable indicator of future performance and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. 12 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We derive all of our revenue from sales of a single line of systems and related customer support and services, and if demand for these systems does not continue to grow, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. We derive all of our revenue from sales of a single line of deduplication storage systems and associated customer support and services. As a result, we are vulnerable to fluctuations in demand for these systems, whether as a result of competing technologies and products, weakening economic conditions, decreases or delays in corporate spending for information technologies, product obsolescence, lack of customer acceptance, technological change, customer budgetary constraints or other factors. If demand for our systems does not continue to grow, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. Our business could be harmed as a result of deteriorating general economic and market conditions that lead to reduced spending on information technology products. Our business depends on the overall demand for information technology, in particular for deduplication storage appliances for backup storage and network-based disaster recovery. Information technology spending has historically declined as general economic and market conditions have worsened, and if the domestic or global economy undergoes a downturn, or if our customers believe such a downturn is imminent, our customers would likely reduce their information technology budgets. We may be particularly susceptible to reductions in information technology spending because the purchase of our appliances is often discretionary and may involve a significant commitment of capital and other resources. Many of our target customers have not purchased products similar to ours and might not have a specific budget for the purchase of our appliances. Delays in or a reduction in information technology spending, domestically or internationally, would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition in a number of ways, including by leading to longer sales cycles, lower prices for our appliances and reduced unit sales. With the recent volatility in the capital markets, there is a risk that we could suffer a loss of principal in our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments and suffer a reduction in our interest or return on investments. We invest our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments pursuant to our investment policy in cash, auction rate securities, money market funds, commercial paper, corporate bonds and government agency certificates, and we actively manage our portfolio with an objective of capital preservation. Certain of these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by U.S. sub-prime mortgage defaults that have affected various sectors of the financial markets and caused credit and liquidity issues. To date, we have determined that any declines in the market value of our investments have been temporary. There could be future declines in the value of these investments, which we may determine to be other-than-temporary. These market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a negative adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. At December 31, 2007 and January 31, 2008, we had $29.6 million and $34.5 million of principal in auction rate securities, respectively. In January 2008, these securities, which consist of AAA-rated, taxable municipal debt obligations, had auctioned successfully. On February 14, 2008, the majority of these auction rate securities failed to auction, causing access to these funds to be restricted. An auction failure means that the parties wishing to sell securities could not. If the issuers are unable to successfully close future auctions and their credit ratings deteriorate, we may in the future be required to record an impairment charge on these investments. Determining whether there has been an other-than-temporary impairment of our short-term investments requires significant judgment. At this time, we believe the interest is collectable, and we do not believe that there has been an other–than-temporary impairment of these investments. With the recent volatility in the capital markets, there is a risk that we could suffer a loss of principal and suffer a reduction in our interest or return on these and other 13 Table of Contents investments, which could harm our operating results and financial condition. In addition, we may suffer a potential lack of liquidity of these investments and it could take until the final maturity of the underlying notes (up to 40 years) to realize our investments’ recorded value. We experience quarterly fluctuations in our operating results due to a number of factors, which makes our future results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations or our guidance. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. If our revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, or below any guidance we may provide to the market, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. In addition to other risk factors listed in this “Risk Factors” section, factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include: • fluctuations in demand for our appliances; • fluctuations in sales cycles and prices for our appliances; • reductions in customers’ budgets for information technology purchases and delays in their purchasing cycles; • the timing of recognizing revenue in any given quarter as a result of revenue recognition rules; • our ability to develop, introduce and ship in a timely manner new products and product enhancements that meet customer requirements; • the timing of product releases or upgrades by us or by our competitors; • our ability to hire additional sales personnel and the length of time required for any such additional personnel to generate significant revenue; • any significant changes in the competitive dynamics of our market, including new entrants or substantial discounting of products; • our ability to control costs, including our operating expenses and the costs of the components we purchase; and • general economic conditions in our domestic and international markets. In addition, we may experience seasonality in the sales of our appliances. We believe our rapid growth and limited operating history may have masked the nature or magnitude of seasonal or cyclical factors that might have influenced our business to date. Seasonal variations in our sales may lead to significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. Our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that may harm our operating results. In the year ended December 31, 2007, we derived approximately 28% of our revenue from international customers. We have sales personnel in numerous countries worldwide. We expect to continue to add personnel in additional countries. Our international operations subject us to a variety of risks, including: • the difficulty of managing and staffing international offices and the increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; • the management of our relationships with channel partners outside the United States, whose sales and lead generation activities are very important to our international operations; 14 Table of Contents • difficulties in enforcing contracts and collecting accounts receivable, and longer payment cycles, especially in emerging markets; • tariffs and trade barriers and other regulatory limitations on our ability to sell our appliances in certain foreign markets; • increased exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk; • increased exposure to possible violations of, or non-compliance with, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; and • political and economic instability. Sales to international customers may also result in greater shipping costs and additional expenses to conform our appliances to the requirements of local laws or local product specifications. As we continue to expand our business internationally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our international operations and reduce our international sales. We have a history of losses and we may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We have not yet achieved profitability for any fiscal year. We incurred a net loss of approximately $3.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, and as of December 31, 2007, our accumulated deficit was approximately $40.3 million. We may continue to incur losses. We expect to make significant expenditures related to the development of our business, including expenditures to hire additional personnel relating to sales and marketing and product development. In addition, we will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. Our operating expenses are largely based on anticipated revenue trends, and a high percentage of our expenses are, and will continue to be, fixed in the short term. As a result, a delay in generating or recognizing revenue could cause significant variations in our operating results from quarter to quarter and annually and could result in substantial operating losses. Our revenue growth trends in prior periods are not likely to be sustainable, and we may not generate sufficient revenue to achieve or maintain profitability. We may incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including those discussed in other risk factors and factors that we cannot foresee. Our sales are difficult to predict, even in the near term, and a substantial portion of our quarterly sales typically occurs during the last several weeks of the quarter. A substantial portion of our quarterly sales typically occurs during the last several weeks of the quarter, which we believe largely reflects customer buying patterns of products similar to ours and other products in the technology industry generally. In addition, a significant portion of our sales in any quarter is not forecast at the start of the quarter and is generated by sales activity initiated within the quarter. Similarly, we have little visibility at the start of any quarter as to which existing customers, if any, will make additional purchases and when any additional purchases may occur, if at all. As a result, our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict even in the near-term. The market we serve is emerging and the purchase of our appliances by new customers may involve material changes to established purchasing patterns and policies. Our sales efforts involve educating potential customers about the uses and benefits of our appliances, including their technical capabilities and potential cost savings. Potential customers may undertake a significant evaluation process that has in the past resulted in a longer sales cycle. In addition, our sales cycle may be extended if potential customers decide to re-evaluate other aspects of their backup storage infrastructure at the same time they are considering a purchase of our appliances. We spend substantial time, money and other resources in our sales process without any assurance that our efforts will produce any sales. In addition, customer purchases are frequently subject to budget constraints, multiple approvals and unplanned administrative, processing and other delays. If sales expected from a specific customer for a particular quarter are not realized in that quarter, or at all, our business may suffer. 15 Table of Contents We have a limited operating history and compete in a new and rapidly evolving market, which makes our future operating results difficult to predict. We were incorporated in October 2001 and first shipped our appliances in February 2004. We have a limited operating history in an industry characterized by rapid technological change, changing customer needs, evolving industry standards and frequent introductions of new products and services. As we encounter rapidly changing customer requirements and increasing competitive pressures, we likely will be required to reposition our product and service offerings and introduce new products and services. We may not be successful in doing so in a timely and appropriately responsive manner, or at all. Furthermore, because we compete in an early stage market, many of our target customers have not purchased products similar to ours and might not have a specific budget for the purchase of our appliances. Historically, enterprises have relied on non-deduplication, tape-based technologies for backup and recovery, and we might not succeed in generating increased demand for our products. All of these factors make it difficult to predict our future operating results, which may impair our ability to manage our business and investors’ ability to assess our prospects. If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel on a cost-effective basis, our business would be harmed. Our success is substantially dependent upon the performance of our senior management and key technical and sales personnel. Our management and employees can terminate their employment at any time, and the loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers or other key employees could harm our business. Our success also is substantially dependent upon our ability to attract additional personnel for all areas of our organization, particularly in our sales and research and development departments. Our dependence on attracting and retaining qualified personnel is particularly significant as we attempt to grow our organization. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel on a timely basis, on competitive terms, or at all. If we are unable to attract and retain the necessary technical, sales and other personnel on a cost-effective basis, our business would be harmed. If we fail to manage future growth effectively, our business would be harmed. We have expanded our operations significantly since inception and anticipate that further significant expansion of our operations and headcount will be required. For example, our headcount increased from 179 employees as of December 31, 2006 to 435 employees as of December 31, 2007, and we have announced our intent to establish a new operations center in North Carolina’s Research Triangle Park. The new facility is expected to house additional engineering, customer support and sales personnel. Our growth has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our management, infrastructure and other resources. To manage our growth, we will need to hire, train, integrate and retain a large number of highly skilled and motivated employees. We will also need to continue to improve our financial and management controls and reporting systems and procedures. We implemented new enterprise resource planning software for our finance and inventory management processes in October 2007, and we may in the future upgrade other finance, sales and inventory management systems. We could encounter delays or difficulties in implementing any of these systems. If we do not effectively hire, train, integrate and retain sufficient highly qualified personnel to support and continue our growth, and if we do not effectively manage our growth and the associated increase in expenses, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. We face significant competition and expect this competition to intensify, which could prevent us from increasing our revenue, reduce our gross margins and result in the loss of market share. The market for our products is highly competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. Other companies have introduced and may in the future introduce new products in the same markets we serve or intend to enter. This competition has resulted in pricing pressure, which we anticipate will increase in the future. Competition has in some instances resulted in a negative impact on the length of our sales cycle, and we may experience longer sales cycles in future periods due to increased competition. In particular, if a large number of 16 Table of Contents orders, or a large dollar value order, is delayed or cancelled, our financial results may be harmed. Competition may result in reduced gross margins for our appliances, increased sales and marketing expenses and a failure to increase, or the loss of, market share. Competitive products may have better performance, lower prices and broader acceptance than our appliances. Many of our current or potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we have. Potential customers may prefer to purchase from their existing vendors rather than a new vendor regardless of product performance or features. In addition, our competitors may be able to bundle products and services that we do not offer together with products that compete with ours at a combined price that is more attractive than the price we charge for our appliances. Currently, we face competition from traditional providers of tape-based storage systems such as Sun Microsystems, Inc. and Quantum Corporation as well as a number of established storage companies that offer a variety of different disk-based storage products, including EMC Corporation and Network Appliance, Inc. and, to a lesser extent, Hitachi Data Systems Corporation, Hewlett-Packard Company and International Business Machines Corporation. Some of our competitors sell, or have announced plans to sell, deduplication storage products that compete directly with our appliances, and additional competitors may introduce deduplication storage products in the future. Pursuant to a cross-license agreement with Quantum, we have licensed our current, and certain future, patents relating to data storage or data transmission, which could assist Quantum in competing with us. We also compete with a number of emerging hardware and software companies that may become more significant competitors in the future. In addition, at the low-end of our product line, we may compete with WAN acceleration and backup software providers that incorporate deduplication capabilities in their products. We expect increased competition from other established and emerging companies if our market continues to develop and expand. Some of our channel partners currently market products and services that compete with our appliances. If these channel partners cease to distribute our appliances for competitive reasons, our sales may decrease or not grow as quickly. In addition, some of our competitors have made acquisitions or entered into partnerships or other strategic relationships with one another to offer a more comprehensive solution than they individually are able to offer. We believe additional consolidation or partnerships are likely to occur in the future as companies attempt to strengthen or maintain their market positions in an evolving industry. The companies resulting from these consolidations or partnerships could significantly change the competitive landscape and adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. Some of our competitors have also entered into relationships with original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, that could provide those competitors with sales, marketing, distribution and other advantages. Our financial results would suffer if demand for deduplication storage appliances does not continue to grow. Our products are disk-based deduplication storage appliances for backup and network-based disaster recovery. Deduplication is a new and emerging technology. Historically, enterprises have relied on non-deduplication tape-based technologies for backup and recovery. A reduction in demand for deduplication storage appliances for backup storage or network-based disaster recovery could be caused by, among other things, lack of customer acceptance, weakening economic conditions, competing technologies and products, or decreases in corporate spending. Our future financial results would suffer if the demand for deduplication storage appliances does not continue to grow. If we fail to predict accurately our manufacturing and component requirements, we could incur additional costs or experience manufacturing delays which would harm our business. Our agreement with our contract manufacturer, Solectron, which has recently been acquired by Flextronics, does not provide for specific quantities or inventory levels for our appliances or the components used in our appliances. Instead, we provide purchase orders to Solectron on a monthly basis. If we overestimate our manufacturing needs, Solectron may assess charges or we may have liabilities for excess or obsolete inventory. 17 Table of Contents Conversely, because lead times for required materials and components vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms and demand for the particular component at any given time, if we underestimate our requirements, Solectron may have inadequate materials and components required to produce our appliances. In that event, the manufacturing of our appliances could be interrupted, shipments could be delayed and revenue could be deferred or lost. Solectron generally carries very little inventory of components for our appliances, and we rely on suppliers to deliver necessary components to Solectron in a timely manner based on forecasts provided to the suppliers. Any shortages in components used in our appliances could delay shipment of our appliances or increase our product costs, which could harm our business. We may experience shortages in components that we use in our appliances, and we may not accurately predict the availability of and demand for such components. We rely on Solectron to procure a majority of the components used in our appliances. As a result, any disruption in Solectron’s ability to procure necessary components in the quantities required or at reasonable prices could result in a delay in the shipment of our appliances. Due to technological, pricing or business reasons, some of the components used in our appliances are available only from a single or limited source of supply. For example, our capacity expansion shelves are currently supplied exclusively by a single vendor, Xyratex Technology Limited, our appliances depend on NVRAM cards that currently are only available from a single vendor, Micro Memory, LLC, which was acquired by VMETRO, and we acquire the chassis used in our appliances from a single vendor. Our agreement with Xyratex has a three-year term ending in March 2010, subject to early termination by either party under certain circumstances. Either we or Solectron order NVRAM cards under a standard purchase order arrangement with Micro Memory or its distributor, and either we or Solectron order chassis under a standard purchase order arrangement with our chassis supplier or its distributor. Significant time and effort would be required to locate new vendors for any of these components, if available at all, to qualify replacement components or to develop our appliances using an alternative technology. The unavailability of any of these or other necessary components could delay or prevent us from shipping our appliances. Component suppliers may be vulnerable to pressure from large purchasers of their products, who may be competitors of ours, to allocate available component supplies to them. In addition, increased demand generally by third parties for the components we use in our appliances may lead to decreased availability and higher prices for those components. We are dependent on a single contract manufacturer and changes to that relationship may result in delays or disruptions that could harm our business. We rely on a single independent contract manufacturer, Solectron, to manufacture and assemble our appliances. We currently have an agreement in place with Solectron that is subject to automatic extensions in one-year increments absent notice of termination by us or Solectron. However, either party can terminate the agreement for any reason at any time with at least 90 days’ advance written notice. We may not be able to effectively manage our relationship with Solectron, and Solectron may not meet our future requirements for timely delivery. Our orders represent only a small percentage of the overall orders received by Solectron from its customers. As a result, fulfilling our orders may not be considered a priority by Solectron in the event it is constrained in its ability to fulfill all of its customer obligations in a timely manner. Although the services required to manufacture and assemble our appliances may be readily available from a number of other established contract manufacturers, it would be time consuming and costly to qualify and implement a new contract manufacturer relationship. Although we have a contingency plan in place with Solectron in the event that its capacity at the location used to manufacture and assemble our appliances is reduced or temporarily eliminated, any event that disrupts the manufacturing and assembly process could harm our business. If Solectron suffers an interruption in its business, or experiences delays, disruptions or quality control problems in its manufacturing operations, or if we have to change or add additional contract manufacturers, our ability to manufacture and ship appliances to our customers would be delayed and our business would suffer. 18 Table of Contents If we do not successfully anticipate market needs and develop products and product enhancements that meet those needs, or if those products do not gain market acceptance, our business will suffer. The market in which we currently operate is rapidly developing. We may not be able to anticipate future market needs or be able to develop new products or product enhancements to meet such needs, either in a timely manner or at all. We also may not be able to develop our products in a manner that enables us to successfully address the needs of other parts of the enterprise storage market. For example, we have recently introduced products for classes of applications other than backup and disaster recovery. These nearline classes of applications, such as archival storage and fixed-content data storage, manage largely static files and benefit from the fast storage and retrieval of disk-based systems, but do not require the performance characteristics of primary storage. Our failure to extend our deduplication technology into these nearline applications, particularly if our competitors are able to do so, could harm our business. In addition, any new products or product enhancements that we introduce may not achieve any significant degree of market acceptance or be accepted into our sales channel by our channel partners, which would harm our business. If we fail to offer high quality customer support and services, our business would suffer. Once our appliances are deployed within our customers’ networks, our customers depend on our support organization to resolve any issues relating to our appliances. A high level of customer support and services is important for the successful marketing and sale of our appliances. If we or our channel partners do not help our customers quickly resolve post-deployment issues and provide effective ongoing support, our ability to sell our appliances to existing customers would suffer and our reputation with potential customers would be harmed. Some of our international channel partners offer primary support for the appliances they sell to customers, and we rely on third parties to provide onsite hardware repair and replacement services for most of our customers. If the third parties fail to provide timely and effective services, our business could be harmed. As we expand our sales, we will be required to hire and train additional support personnel. In addition, as we expand our operations internationally, our support organization will face additional challenges including those associated with delivering support, training and documentation in languages other than English. If we fail to maintain high quality customer support or to grow our support organization to match any future sales growth, our business will suffer. If we elect to discount our support and services pricing to attract or retain customers, we may be required to defer a portion of our revenue to future periods. If we elect to discount our support and services pricing or otherwise introduce significant variability in our support and services arrangements, this variability may require us to defer the recognition of revenue from sales of our appliances. We recognize revenue for our appliances using the residual method as allowed by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, or AICPA, Statement of Position, or SOP, No. 98-9, Modification of SOP No. 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition, with Respect to Certain Transactions, or SOP 98-9. Under this method, in order to recognize product revenue upon shipment, we must establish sufficient evidence, which is referred to as vendor specific objective evidence, or VSOE, of the fair value of our undelivered support and services. We have established VSOE of fair value of our support and services based on the price charged when support and services are sold separately. If we are required to change the pricing of support and services through discounting, or otherwise introduce variability in the pricing of support and services on certain transactions to attract or retain customers, we may be unable to maintain VSOE of the fair value of support and services for similar types of transactions. As a result, we could be required to defer all revenue for these transactions and recognize revenue ratably over the term of the related support and services contracts, which is typically one to three years. If this were to occur, our revenue would decline and our operating results would be negatively impacted. 19 Table of Contents Our appliances handle mission-critical data for our customers and are highly technical in nature. If customer data is lost or corrupted, or our appliances contain software errors or hardware defects, we could have product liability exposure and our reputation and business could be harmed. Our appliances are involved in storing and replicating mission-critical data for our customers. The process of storing and replicating that data is highly technical and complex. If any data is lost or corrupted in connection with the use of our appliances, our reputation could be seriously harmed and market acceptance of our appliances could suffer. In addition, our appliances have contained and may in the future contain software errors, hardware defects or security vulnerabilities. We rely on our suppliers to deliver high quality components for use in our products and we have limited or no control over our suppliers’ product development and production processes. Some software errors or defects in the hardware components of our appliances may only be discovered after an appliance has been installed and used by customers. In April 2007, we initiated a field replacement program to replace a circuit board used in some of our appliances. To date, these circuit boards have experienced failures in less than 1% of the appliances that we believe are potentially affected. All of the circuit boards that have failed were manufactured by fabricators that are no longer supplying parts for use in our appliances. Through the replacement program, we are offering to replace the potentially affected circuit boards with circuit boards manufactured by a particular fabricator. We accrued estimated warranty costs of $1.2 million in the first quarter of 2007 for this replacement program. We accrued an additional $450,000 in the third quarter 2007 to expand this program for additional circuit boards used in some of our appliances. These estimates were based on the number of circuit boards we expect to replace under the program, the anticipated cost of replacement and refurbishment and other associated costs. As of December 31, 2007, we had incurred approximately $1.2 million of costs associated with these field replacement programs and $437,000 remained in accrued liabilities to cover future costs for the units potentially affected. Although we believe our estimates and judgments for the replacement program are reasonable, if the problem is more extensive than we currently believe or the actual costs of the program otherwise exceed our estimate, our operating results will be negatively impacted. Any such errors, defects or security vulnerabilities discovered in our appliances after commercial release could result in loss of revenue, loss of customers, increased service and warranty cost, harm to our reputation and diversion of attention of our management and technical personnel, any of which could significantly harm our business. In addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort or breach of warranty. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management’s attention and adversely affect the market’s perception of us and our appliances. Changes in existing technologies or the emergence of new products or technologies could reduce demand for our appliances and significantly harm our business. Changes in existing technologies could cause demand for our appliances to decline. For example, if changes in technology result in a significant reduction in the price for hard disk drives, enterprises may not need to utilize deduplication storage in order to cost-effectively backup and protect their data. One or more new technologies also could be introduced that compete favorably with our appliances or that cause our appliances to no longer be of significant benefit to our customers. In addition, because our appliances work with enterprise backup software applications to transfer and store data in the protection storage environment, we are dependent on enterprises’ use of these applications for data protection and disaster recovery purposes. If enterprises adopt products or technologies that enable them to protect and recover their data without the need for backup software, demand for our appliances would be reduced significantly. The inability of our appliances to interoperate with backup software applications would cause our business to suffer. We have designed our appliances to interoperate with the leading enterprise backup software applications available in the market. If our appliances are not compatible with the leading backup software applications, demand for our appliances will decline. Some backup software providers currently offer products that compete with ours and other providers may do so in the future. Backup software providers may in the future make 20 Table of Contents changes that would diminish the ability of our appliances to interoperate with their applications. If this were to occur, we may need to spend significant time and effort to ensure the continued compatibility of our appliances, which may not be possible at all. Any of these developments could significantly harm our business. Data formats may change in a way that reduces the value of our compression technologies. Our compression technologies have been designed to work well for data formats commonly seen in customer data centers today. The format of data stored on our appliances may change in ways that reduce the benefit of our compression technologies. Such format changes could result from changes in the applications that create or transmit the data, changes in the systems that store the data, or changes in policies concerning data encryption, compression, or encoding. For example, some potential customers in the past have employed encryption or compression technologies that they were unable or unwilling to disable and therefore did not find the benefits of our Global Compression technologies compelling. If the number of such potential customers were to increase significantly in the future, our business could suffer. We rely on channel partners to sell our appliances, and disruptions to, or our failure to develop and manage our channel partners would harm our business. Our future success is dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a large number of channel partners. A substantial majority of our revenue is generated by sales through our channel partners, and we expect channel sales to continue to make up a significant portion of our total revenue in the future, particularly outside the United States. In the year ended December 31, 2007, approximately 86% of our revenue was generated by sales through our channel partners. Accordingly, our revenue depends in large part on the effective sales and lead generation activities of these channel partners. Recruiting and retaining qualified channel partners and training them in our technology and product offerings requires significant time and resources. In order to develop and expand our distribution channel, we must continue to scale and improve our processes and procedures that support our channel, including investment in systems and training. Those processes and procedures may become increasingly complex and difficult to manage as we grow our organization. We have no minimum purchase commitments from any of our channel partners, and our contracts with these channel partners do not prohibit them from offering products or services that compete with ours. Our competitors may provide incentives to existing and potential channel partners to favor their products or to prevent or reduce sales of our appliances. Our channel partners may choose not to offer our appliances exclusively or at all. Establishing relationships with channel partners who have a history of selling our competitors’ products may also prove to be difficult. In addition, some of our channel partners are also competitors. Our failure to establish and maintain successful relationships with channel partners would seriously harm our business and operating results. If we fail to establish and maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting, our operating results and our ability to operate our business could be harmed. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires, among other things, that we establish and maintain internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, under the current rules of the SEC, beginning with the year ending December 31, 2008, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our independent registered public accounting firm will also be required to report on our internal control over financing reporting. Our and our auditor’s testing may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses and render our internal control over financial reporting ineffective. We expect to incur substantial accounting and auditing expense and expend significant management time in complying with the requirements of Section 404. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify 21 Table of Contents deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to investigations or sanctions by the SEC, The NASDAQ Stock Market, or NASDAQ, or other regulatory authorities or subject to litigation. Our independent registered public accounting firm identified a material weakness in our financial statement close process as of December 31, 2006, and we implemented additional formal policies, procedures and processes, hired additional accounting personnel and increased management review and oversight over the financial statement close and reporting processes in order to remediate this material weakness. To the extent any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting are identified in the future, we could be required to expend significant management time and financial resources to correct such material weaknesses or to respond to any resulting regulatory investigations or proceedings. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed, and we could be required to incur significant expenses to enforce our rights. We depend on our ability to protect our proprietary technology. We rely on trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark laws and confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties, all of which offer only limited protection. Despite our efforts, the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to preclude misappropriation of our proprietary information or infringement of our intellectual property rights, and our ability to police such misappropriation or infringement is uncertain, particularly in countries outside of the United States. Further, we do not know whether any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents or whether the examination process will require us to narrow our claims. Even issued patents may be contested, circumvented or invalidated. Moreover, the rights granted under any issued patents may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages, and, as with any technology, competitors may be able to develop similar or superior technologies to our own now or in the future. In addition, we have entered into a cross-license agreement with Quantum Corporation, a competitor of ours, that provides Quantum and its controlled affiliates a license to our current and future patents that relate to or are useful with respect to data transmission or data storage and that are or may be issued or applied for (or otherwise entitled to a priority date) on or prior to January 1, 2012. As a result of this agreement, we will not be able to assert our existing patent rights and many or all of our future patent rights against Quantum or its controlled affiliates for the foreseeable future, and Quantum has certain rights to assign this license to an acquirer of Quantum. It is also possible that we may find it necessary or advantageous to enter into similar cross licenses in the future with other actual or potential competitors. Protecting against the unauthorized use of our patents, trademarks and other proprietary rights is expensive, difficult and, in some cases, impossible. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation could be costly and divert management resources, either of which could harm our business. Furthermore, many of our current and potential competitors have the ability to dedicate substantially greater resources to enforce their intellectual property rights than we do. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. Claims by others that we infringe their proprietary technology could harm our business. Third parties could claim that our appliances or technology infringe their proprietary rights. We expect that infringement claims may increase as the number of products and competitors in our market increases and overlaps occur. In addition, to the extent that we gain greater visibility and market exposure as a public company, we face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property infringement claims. Any claims of infringement by a third party, even those without merit, could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim, and could distract our management from our business. Furthermore, a party making such a claim, if successful, could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages. A judgment could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from offering our appliances. In addition, we might be required to seek a license for the use of such intellectual property, which may not be available on 22 Table of Contents commercially reasonable terms or at all. Alternatively, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense and may ultimately not be successful. Any of these events could seriously harm our business. Third parties may also assert infringement claims relating to our appliances against our customers and channel partners. Any of these claims may require us to initiate or defend potentially protracted and costly litigation on their behalf, regardless of the merits of these claims, because we generally are obligated to indemnify our channel partners and, less frequently, our customers, from claims of infringement of proprietary rights of third parties. If any of these claims succeed, we may be forced to pay damages to, or on behalf of, our customers or channel partners, which could seriously harm our business. Our use of open source software could impose limitations on our ability to commercialize our appliances. We incorporate open source software into our appliances. The terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by United States courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our appliances. In that event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our appliances, to re-engineer our appliances, to discontinue the sale of our appliances in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis or to litigate any disputes relating to our use of open source software, any of which could harm our business. Our business is subject to increasingly complex environmental legislation that has increased both our costs and the risk of noncompliance and may continue to do so in the future. We face increasing complexity in the design and manufacture of our appliances as we adjust to new and upcoming requirements relating to the materials composition of many of our appliances. For example, the European Union, or EU, has adopted certain directives to facilitate the recycling of electrical and electronic equipment sold in the EU, including the Restriction on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment, or RoHS, directive. The RoHS directive restricts the use of lead, mercury and certain other substances in electrical and electronic products placed on the market in the EU. A companion EU directive, the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive imposes responsibility for the collection, recycling and recovery for certain electrical and electronic products on the manufacturers of such equipment. We have incurred costs to comply with these regulations in the past and could incur additional costs in the future. In addition, compliance with these regulations could disrupt our operations and logistics. We will need to ensure that we can design and manufacture compliant appliances and that we can be assured a supply of compliant components from suppliers. Similar laws and regulations have been proposed or may be enacted in other regions, including the United States, Canada, China, Korea, Japan and Australia. These and other environmental regulations may require us to reengineer our appliances to utilize new components that are compatible with these regulations, which may result in additional costs to us. We may not generate positive returns on our research and development investments. Developing our products is expensive, and our investment in product development may involve a long investment return cycle. For the year ended December 31, 2007, our research and development expenses were $23.4 million, or approximately 19% of revenue. Our future plans include significant investments in research and development and related product opportunities. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. These investments may not generate positive returns in the near term, or at all. 23 Table of Contents We may engage in future acquisitions that could disrupt our business, cause dilution to our stockholders and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In the future we may acquire other businesses, products or technologies. We have not made any acquisitions to date and, as a result, our ability as an organization to make acquisitions is unproven. We may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates and we may not be able to complete acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. If we do complete acquisitions, we may not ultimately strengthen our competitive position or achieve our goals, and any acquisitions we complete could be viewed negatively by customers, financial markets or investors. In addition, any acquisitions that we make could lead to difficulties in integrating personnel and operations from the acquired businesses and in retaining and motivating key personnel from these businesses. Acquisitions may disrupt our ongoing operations, divert management from day-to-day responsibilities, increase our expenses and harm our business. Future acquisitions may also reduce our cash available for operations and other uses and could result in an increase in amortization expense related to identifiable assets acquired, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to compliance efforts. As a public company, we incur significant legal, audit, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and NASDAQ, impose additional requirements on public companies, including enhanced corporate governance practices. For example, the NASDAQ listing requirements require that listed companies satisfy certain corporate governance requirements relating to independent directors, audit committees, distribution of annual and interim reports, stockholder meetings, stockholder approvals, solicitation of proxies, conflicts of interest, stockholder voting rights and codes of business conduct. Our management and other personnel are required to devote a substantial amount of time to these requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and have made some activities more time-consuming and costly. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors and board committees or as executive officers. Our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fire, floods and other natural catastrophic events, and to interruption by man-made problems such as computer viruses or terrorism. Our corporate headquarters and the operations of the contract manufacturer for our appliances are located in the San Francisco Bay Area, a region known for seismic activity. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire or a flood, could harm our business. In addition, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. In addition, acts of terrorism or war could cause disruptions in our or our customers’ business or the economy as a whole. To the extent that such disruptions result in delays or cancellations of customer orders, or delay the manufacture and shipment of our appliances, our business would be harmed. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and is likely to be volatile in the future. The trading prices of our common stock as well as the securities of other technology companies have been highly volatile. Further, our common stock has a limited trading history. Factors affecting the trading price of our common stock could include: • variations in our operating results; • announcements of technological innovations, new products and services, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors; 24 Table of Contents • recruitment or departure of key personnel; • changes in the estimates of our operating results or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that elect to follow our common stock; • market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers and the economy as a whole; and • adoption or modification of regulations, policies, procedures or programs applicable to our business. In addition, if the market for technology stocks or the stock market in general experiences loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, operating results or financial condition. The trading price of our common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry even if these events do not directly affect us, or in reaction to reports from industry analysts about us or our competitors or others in the technology industry generally. Some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have had securities class actions filed against them. A suit filed against us, regardless of its merits or outcome, could cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert management’s attention. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company and may affect the trading price of our common stock. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. Our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws: • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt; • establish a classified board of directors, as a result of which the successors to the directors whose terms have expired will be elected to serve from the time of election and qualification until the third annual meeting following their election; • require that directors only be removed from office for cause; • provide that vacancies on the board of directors, including newly created directorships, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office; • limit who may call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; and • require supermajority stockholder voting to effect certain amendments to our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 