Item 1A. Risk Factors These are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Because of the these factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance should not be considered as a reliable indicator of future performance and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. These risks are not the only ones facing us. Please also see “SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS” earlier in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following discussion highlights certain risks which may affect future operating results. These are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for our existing and potential stockholders to consider. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, which we currently deem immaterial or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results would likely suffer. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We compete in new and rapidly evolving markets and have a limited operating history, which makes it difficult to predict our future operating results. We were incorporated in August 2000, and deployed our first commercial product in the first quarter of 2003. We have a limited operating history in an industry characterized by rapid technological change, changing customer needs, evolving industry standards and frequent introductions of new products and services. We believe our limited operating history and the characteristics of our industry make it difficult to forecast our future 17 Table of Contents operating results. You should consider and evaluate our prospects in light of risks faced by companies such as ours, which include challenges in accurate financial planning as a result of limited historical data and the uncertainties resulting from a relatively limited time period in which to implement and evaluate our business strategies, as compared to companies with longer operating histories. Our past operating results have fluctuated significantly, and likely will continue to fluctuate significantly, which makes it difficult to predict our operating results and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations. Our operating results have historically fluctuated significantly from period to period and we expect our operating results to continue to fluctuate due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. If our revenues or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts or below any guidance we may provide to the market, the price of our common stock could decline. In addition to other risk factors listed in this “Risk Factors” section, factors that may affect our operating results include: • fluctuations in demand, sales cycles and prices for our products and services; • reductions in customers’ budgets for mobile network infrastructure purchases and delays in their purchasing decisions; • the timing of recognizing revenue in any given period as a result of software revenue recognition rules; • the sale of our products in the timeframes we anticipate, including the number and size of orders in each period; • the level of our customer concentration and our ability to generate purchases in any particular period from large customers; • our ability to develop, introduce and ship in a timely manner new products and product enhancements that meet customer requirements; • the timing of product releases or upgrades by us or by our competitors; • any significant changes in the competitive dynamics of our markets, including new entrants or substantial discounting of products; • our ability to control costs, including our operating expenses and the costs of the components we purchase; • costs related to litigation, claims and other contingencies; • increases in our effective tax rate due to the use of substantially all of our accumulated net operating loss carryforwards in prior periods; • fluctuations in exchange rates; and • general economic conditions in our domestic and international markets. We depend on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues. The loss of a key customer or any significant adverse change in the size or terms of orders from a key customer could significantly reduce our revenues. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers partly due to the nature of the mobile communications industry. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2008, we had two customers that each accounted for more than 10% of our revenues and in the aggregate represented 81% of our revenues and in 2007 we had three customers that each accounted for more than 10% of our revenues and in the aggregate represented more than 75% of our revenues. In addition, we do not have long-term volume purchase 18 Table of Contents contracts with our customers or other commitments that ensure future sales of our products to existing customers. The loss of any key customer, or our inability to generate anticipated revenue from them, would significantly and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a change in the timing or size of a purchase by any one of our key customers can result in significant variations in our revenue and operating results from period to period. Our operating results for the foreseeable future will continue to depend on our ability to effect sales to a small number of customers. Any revenue growth will depend on our success selling additional products to our large customers and expanding our customer base to include additional customers that deploy our products in large-scale networks serving significant numbers of subscribers. Moreover, many of our key customers are large mobile operators that have substantial purchasing power and leverage in negotiating contractual arrangements with us. These customers may require us to agree to terms and conditions that could result in increased costs and decreased revenues that could adversely affect our operating results. We rely on a single line of products focused on a single market. If the market for those products does not develop as we anticipate, our revenues may decline or fail to grow, which would adversely affect our operating results. We derive, and expect to continue to derive, all of our revenues from a single line of products that provide network functions and services to mobile operators’ packet core networks. The market for our products is relatively new and still evolving, and it is uncertain whether our products will achieve and sustain high levels of demand and market acceptance. Our success will depend to a substantial extent on the willingness of mobile operators to continue to implement packet-based, multimedia network infrastructure. Factors that could impair the rate of growth of multimedia networks include: • lower than anticipated demand by subscribers for multimedia services; • budgetary constraints of mobile operators; • uncertainties on the part of mobile operators as to the particular 3G or 4G access technologies they select for deployment in their networks; and • delays in the development or availability of all the network elements necessary for the mobile operator to deploy its next-generation multimedia network. If mobile operators do not continue to implement packet core networks, the market for our products may not continue to develop or may develop more slowly than we expect, either of which would significantly adversely affect our revenues and profitability. The market in which we compete is highly competitive and competitive pressures from existing and new companies may have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, growth rates and market share. We compete in a highly competitive industry that is influenced by many factors, including customer demands for: • reliable, high performance products; • system ability to handle increasing amounts of network traffic and service integration capabilities; • system intelligence; • breadth of network interoperability, access independence and standards support; • high levels of customer support and customer interaction; and • competitive pricing. 19 Table of Contents We expect competition in the mobile network infrastructure industry to intensify significantly in the future. Other companies may introduce new products in the markets we serve or intend to enter. This competition could result in increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses and failure to increase, or the loss of, market share, any of which would likely seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition. Competitive products may in the future have better performance, lower prices and broader acceptance than our products. Our primary competitors include Cisco Systems, Inc., Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., LM Ericsson Telephone Co., and Nokia Siemens Networks B.V., each of which has a longer operating history, greater name recognition, a larger customer base and significantly greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we do. Potential customers may prefer to purchase from their existing suppliers rather than a new supplier regardless of product performance or features. In addition, many of our competitors have a broader range of products and may be able to offer concessions to potential customers on bundled purchases that we are not able to match because we currently offer only a single line of products. We also face competition from a number of companies with more limited market share either generally or by geography and newer market entrants. If our market continues to develop and expand, we could face increased competition from other established companies, as well as emerging companies. For example, OEMs, system integrators and distributors currently selling our products could market products and services that compete with our products and services. In addition, some of our competitors have made acquisitions or entered into partnerships or other strategic relationships with one another to offer a more comprehensive solution than they individually had offered. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or maintain their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies enter into partnerships, or are acquired. Many of the companies driving this consolidation trend have significantly greater financial, technical and other resources than we do and are better positioned to acquire and offer complementary products and technologies. The companies resulting from these possible consolidations may create more compelling product offerings and be able to offer greater pricing flexibility, making it more difficult for us to compete effectively, including on the basis of price, sales and marketing programs, technology or product functionality. Continued industry consolidation may adversely impact customers’ perceptions of the viability of smaller and even medium-sized technology companies and consequently customers’ willingness to purchase from such companies. These pressures could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our sales cycles can be long and unpredictable, and our sales efforts require considerable time and expense. Our sales cycles typically are long and unpredictable, and our sales efforts require considerable time and expense. Our sales efforts involve educating our customers about the use and benefit of our products, including their technical capabilities and potential cost savings. Customers typically undertake a significant evaluation process before making a purchase, in some cases over twelve months. We spend substantial time and resources in our sales efforts without any assurance that our efforts will produce any sales. In addition, product purchases are frequently subject to budget constraints, multiple approvals, and unplanned administrative, processing and other delays. Our long sales cycle may cause our revenues and operating results to fluctuate significantly. Demand for our products depends on the rate that mobile operators expand and enhance their mobile networks in order to provide multimedia services. Our future success as a provider of network infrastructure products and services for mobile operators ultimately depends on the continued growth of the mobile communications industry and, in particular, the continued deployment and expansion of mobile multimedia services. Increased demand by mobile subscribers for voice communications and multimedia services delivered over mobile network systems will be necessary to justify capital expenditure commitments by mobile operators to invest in the improvement and expansion of their networks. Demand for multimedia services might not continue to increase if there is limited availability or 20 Table of Contents market acceptance of mobile devices designed for such services, the multimedia content offered through mobile networks does not attract widespread interest or the quality of service available through mobile networks does not meet customer expectations. If long-term expectations for mobile multimedia services are not realized or do not support a sustainable business model, operators may not commit significant capital expenditures to upgrade their networks to provide these services, the demand for our products and services will decrease, and we may not be able to sustain or increase our levels of revenues or profitability in the future. A significant portion of our future revenues depends on our ability to further penetrate the GSM/UMTS market and our failure to do so could significantly interfere with our future growth. The two principal radio access interfaces in use today for mobile communications are Code Division Multiple Access, or CDMA, and Global System for Mobile Communications/Universal Mobile Telecommunications System, or GSM/UMTS. To date, we have achieved our highest number of deployments in the CDMA market, which has transitioned faster to high-bandwidth networks. However, significantly more operators worldwide currently utilize GSM/UMTS than CDMA technologies. In order to continue our growth, we believe it is important that we continue to expand into the GSM/UMTS market. To date, we have established relationships with a number of GSM/UMTS operators, and we intend to devote significant sales and marketing resources to further penetrate the GSM/UMTS market. If GSM/UMTS operators do not transition or delay their transition to high-bandwidth networks, or if we are unable to establish relationships with additional GSM/UMTS operators, we may not be able to grow our business as expected and our results of operations will be adversely affected. We rely on OEMs, system integrators and distributors to sell some of our products, and our failure to develop and manage our distribution channels could adversely affect our business. For our sales to mobile operators, we rely in part on establishing and maintaining successful relationships with original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, system integrators and distributors. Our revenues depend in part on the effective performance of these distribution relationships. By utilizing these indirect sales channels we may have less contact with the end users of our products, thereby potentially making it more difficult for us to establish brand awareness, ensure proper delivery and installation of our products, service ongoing customer requirements and respond to evolving customer needs. Developing relationships with qualified OEMs, system integrators and distributors and training them in our technology and product offerings requires significant time and resources. In order to develop and expand our distribution channels, we must continue to scale and improve our processes and procedures that support our OEM, system integrator and distributor relationships, including investment in systems and training. We have no minimum purchase commitments with any of our OEMs, system integrators or distributors, and our contracts with them do not prohibit them from offering products or services that compete with ours. Our competitors may be effective in providing incentives to existing and potential OEMs, system integrators and distributors to favor their products or to prevent or reduce sales of our products. Our OEMs, system integrators and distributors may choose not to offer our products exclusively or at all. Our failure to establish and maintain successful relationships with our OEMs, system integrators and distributors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. If network functions and services similar to those offered by our products are incorporated into existing or new mobile network infrastructure products, demand by mobile operators for our products may diminish. Mobile network infrastructures are continually evolving with changing industry standards and the introduction of new technologies and network elements. Network functions and services provided by our products located within the packet core network may be provided by different network elements within these networks. Other providers of mobile network infrastructure products may add network functions and services provided by our products to their existing products or offer new products with similar characteristics for different parts of the network infrastructure. 21 Table of Contents The inclusion of, or the announcement of an intent to include, functionality and services perceived to be similar to those offered by our products in competitor products within or outside the packet core network could have an adverse effect on our ability to market and sell our products. Furthermore, even if the network functions and services offered by our competitors are more limited than those provided by our products, a significant number of customers may elect to accept limited functionality or services in lieu of adding our products to their network. The adoption of these competitive products or different approaches to network infrastructure by mobile operators could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The applications of existing or future accounting standards could result in significant fluctuations in our operating results. We recognize our revenue in accordance with AICPA Statement of Position, or SOP, 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition, and related amendments and interpretations and SOP 98-9, Modification of SOP 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition with Respect to Certain Transactions. Under these accounting standards, even if we deliver products to, and collect cash from, a customer in a given fiscal period, we may be required to defer recognizing revenue from the sale of such product until a future period when all the conditions necessary for revenue recognition have been satisfied. Conditions that can cause delays in revenue recognition include arrangements that have undelivered elements for which we have not yet established vendor specific objective evidence of fair value; requirements that we deliver services for significant enhancements or modifications to customize our software for a particular customer; or material customer acceptance criteria. Our customer contracts typically include one or more of these types of conditions. Therefore, we often must defer revenue recognition for a period of time after our products are delivered and billed to a customer, and such deferral may extend over one or more fiscal quarters. The period of deferral, if any, depends on the specific terms and conditions of each customer contract, and therefore it is difficult for us to predict with accuracy at the beginning of any fiscal period the amount of revenues that we will be able to recognize from anticipated customer shipments in that period. Moreover, any changes in interpretations and guidance as to SOP 97-2 could have a significant effect on our reported financial results. We may have difficulty acquiring new customers due to the high costs of switching mobile network infrastructure providers or equipment. Mobile network operators typically make substantial investments when deploying mobile network infrastructure. Once a mobile network operator has deployed infrastructure for a particular portion of their network, it is often difficult and costly to switch to another vendor’s infrastructure. Unless we are able to persuasively demonstrate that our products offer performance, functionality or cost advantages that materially outweigh a customer’s expense of switching from a competitor’s product, it will be difficult for us to generate sales once that competitor’s equipment has been deployed. Accordingly, if a customer has already deployed a competitor’s product for their network infrastructure, it may be difficult for us to sell our products to that customer. Our ability to sell our products is highly dependent on the quality of our support and services offerings, and our failure to offer high quality support and services would have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. Once our products are deployed within our customers’ networks, our customers depend on our support organization to resolve issues relating to our products. A high level of support is critical for the successful marketing and sale of our products and future enhancements. If we, or our OEMs, system integrators or distributors, do not effectively assist our customers in deploying our products, help our customers quickly resolve post-deployment issues, and provide effective ongoing support, it would adversely affect our ability to sell our products to existing customers and could harm our reputation with potential customers. In addition, as we expand our operations internationally, our support organization will face additional challenges, including those associated with delivering support, training and documentation in languages other than English. As a result, our failure to maintain high quality support and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 22 Table of Contents The mobile network infrastructure industry is, and likely will continue to be, characterized by rapid technological changes in networks and standards, which will require us to develop new products and product enhancements, and could render our existing products obsolete. Mobile operators have been aggressively upgrading their networks, and new industry standards for access technologies, such as third generation, or 3G, and more advanced fourth generation, or 4G, technologies continue to evolve. Continuing technological changes in the mobile communications industry and in the mobile network infrastructure industry could undermine our competitive position or make our products obsolete, either generally or for particular types of services. Our future success will depend upon our ability to accurately predict and respond to new technology standards. We must develop and introduce a variety of new capabilities and enhancements to our existing product offerings, as well as introduce new product offerings, to address the changing standards and technological needs of the network infrastructure market. A failure to accurately predict and respond to evolving technologies, to introduce on a timely basis new products and enhancements in response to evolving technologies and standards, or to address changing needs in our current markets or expand into new markets may cause existing and potential customers to forego purchases of our products or purchase from our competitors. The introduction of new products embodying new technologies or the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing products uncompetitive from a pricing standpoint, obsolete or unmarketable. Our products are complex and may take longer to develop than anticipated and we may not recognize revenues from new products or product enhancements until after we have incurred significant development costs. Some of our products must be tailored to meet customer specifications. As a result, we often develop new features and enhancements to our products. These product enhancements often take substantial time to develop because of their complexity and because customer specifications sometimes change during the development cycle. We often do not recognize revenue from our new products or enhancements until we have incurred significant development costs, and our operating results will suffer if sales of new products or enhancements fail to meet expectations. There is no assurance that our research and development investments will lead to successful new products or enhancements. We will continue to invest in research and development for the introduction of new products and enhancements to existing products designed to improve the capacity, data processing rates and features of our products and services. We must also continue to develop new features and functionality for our products based on specific customer requests and anticipated market needs. However, research and development in the mobile network infrastructure industry is complex, expensive and subject to uncertainty. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. If we continue to expend a significant amount of resources on research and development and our efforts do not lead to the successful introduction of products or product enhancements that are competitive in the marketplace, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and market share. We may not be able to anticipate market needs and develop products and product enhancements that meet those needs, and any new products or product enhancements that we introduce may not achieve any significant degree of market acceptance. If our products do not interoperate with our customers’ networks, installations will be delayed or cancelled, which would harm our business. Our products must interoperate with our customers’ existing networks, which often have different specifications, utilize multiple protocol standards and products from multiple vendors and contain multiple generations of products that have been added over time. If we find errors in the existing software or defects in the hardware used in our customers’ networks or problematic network configurations or settings, as we have in the 23 Table of Contents past, we may have to modify our software or hardware so that our products will interoperate with our customers’ networks. This could cause longer installation times for our products or order cancellations and could harm our relationship with existing and future customers, any of which would adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, our customers may require that we demonstrate that our products interoperate with network elements offered by our competitors, and we may need our competitors’ cooperation to conduct such testing and validation. Any unwillingness of our competitors to cooperate with us in performing these interoperability tests or our inability to demonstrate interoperability would likely have an adverse effect on our ability to market our products. Our products are highly technical and may contain undetected software or hardware errors, which could cause harm to our reputation and adversely affect our business. Our products are highly technical and complex. When deployed, they are critical to the mobile operator networks. Our products have contained and may contain undetected errors, defects or security vulnerabilities. Some errors in our products may only be discovered after a product has been installed and used by mobile operators. Any errors, defects or security vulnerabilities discovered in our products after commercial release could result in loss of revenues or delay in revenue recognition, loss of customers and increased service cost, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort or breach of warranty, including claims relating to changes to our products made by our OEMs, system integrators or distributors. Our contracts with customers generally contain provisions relating to warranty disclaimers and liability limitations, which may be ineffective. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management’s attention away from the business and adversely affect the market’s perception of us and our products. In addition, if our business liability insurance coverage is inadequate or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely impacted. We are susceptible to shortages or price fluctuations in our supply chain. Any shortages or price fluctuations in components used in our products could delay shipment of our products, which could materially adversely affect our business. Shortages in components that we use in our products are possible and our ability to predict the availability of such components may be limited. Some of these components are available only from single or limited sources of supply. The process of qualifying alternate sources for components, if available at all, may be time consuming, difficult and costly. In addition, the lead times associated with certain components are lengthy and preclude rapid changes in quantity requirements and delivery schedules. Any growth in our business or the economy is likely to create greater pressures on us and our suppliers to project overall component demand accurately and to establish appropriate component inventory levels. In addition, increased demand by third parties for the components we use in our products may lead to decreased availability and higher prices for those components. We carry very little inventory of our products and product components, and we rely on our suppliers to deliver necessary components to our contract manufacturer in a timely manner based on forecasts we provide. We generally rely on purchase orders rather than long-term contracts with our suppliers. As a result, even if available, we may not be able to secure sufficient components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build products in a timely manner, which would seriously impact our ability to deliver products to our customers, and our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. We depend on a single contract manufacturer with whom we do not have a long-term supply contract, and changes to this relationship may result in delays or disruptions that could harm our business. We depend on Plexus Corp., an independent contract manufacturer, to manufacture and assemble our products. We rely on purchase orders with our contract manufacturer and do not have long-term supply 24 Table of Contents arrangements in place. As a result, our contract manufacturer is not obligated to supply products to us for any specific period, quantity or price. Our orders may represent a relatively small percentage of the overall orders received by our contract manufacturer from its customers. As a result, fulfilling our orders may not be considered a priority by our contract manufacturer in the event the contract manufacturer is constrained in its ability to fulfill all of its customer obligations in a timely manner. It is time consuming and costly to qualify and implement a contract manufacturer relationship. Therefore, if our contract manufacturer suffers an interruption in its business, or experiences delays, disruptions or quality control problems in its manufacturing operations, or we have to change or add additional contract manufacturers, our ability to ship products to our customers would be delayed and our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. If we fail to predict accurately our manufacturing requirements, we could incur additional costs or experience manufacturing delays that could harm our business. We provide demand forecasts to our contract manufacturer. If we overestimate our requirements, our contract manufacturer may assess charges or we may have liabilities for excess inventory, each of which could negatively affect our gross margins. Conversely, because lead times for required materials and components vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms and the demand for each component at a given time, if we underestimate our requirements, our contract manufacturer may have inadequate materials and components required to produce our products, which could interrupt manufacturing of our products and result in delays in shipments and deferral or loss of revenues. If we fail to retain our key personnel, we may not be able to achieve our anticipated level of growth and our business could suffer. Our future depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel, including the continued contributions of our executive officers and other key technical personnel, each of whom would be difficult to replace. In particular, Ashraf M. Dahod, our president, chief executive officer and chairman is critical to the management of our business and operations, as well as the development of our strategic direction. The loss of services of Mr. Dahod or other executive officers or key personnel or the inability to continue to attract qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Mr. Dahod is not a party to an employment agreement with us and, therefore, may terminate his employment with us at any time, with no advance notice. The replacement of Mr. Dahod would involve significant time and expense and may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. Competition for our employees is intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees that we need to support our business. Competition for highly skilled technical personnel is extremely intense and we continue to face difficulty identifying and hiring qualified personnel in many areas of our business. In particular, we face significant challenges hiring and retaining personnel in India for research and development activities because the market for such personnel is increasingly competitive. We may not be able to hire and retain such personnel at compensation levels consistent with our existing compensation and salary structure. Many of the companies with which we compete for hiring experienced employees have greater resources than we have and may be able to offer more attractive terms of employment. In addition, we invest significant time and expense in training our employees, which increases their value to competitors who may seek to recruit them. If we fail to retain our employees, we could incur significant expenses replacing employees and the quality of our products and services and our ability to provide such products and services could diminish, resulting in a material adverse affect on our business. Furthermore, in making employment decisions, particularly in high-technology industries, candidates often consider the value of the equity they are to receive in connection with their employment. Therefore, significant volatility in the price of our stock may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain personnel. 25 Table of Contents Our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that may adversely affect our operating results. Over the last several years, we derived a significant portion of our revenues from customers outside the United States, and we continue to expand our international operations. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 62% of our employees were located outside of the United States, including 401 employees located in India. In addition, we have sales and technical support personnel in numerous countries worldwide. We expect to continue to add personnel in additional countries. Any continued expansion into international markets will require significant resources and management attention and will subject us to new regulatory, economic and political risks, and we cannot be sure that any further international expansion will be successful. Among the risks we believe are most likely to affect us with respect to our international operations are: • the difficulty of managing and staffing international offices and the increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; • difficulties in enforcing contracts and collecting accounts receivable and longer payment cycles, especially in emerging markets; • our ability to comply with differing technical standards and certification requirements outside North America; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • new and different sources of competition; • internationalization of our products to meet local customs or the needs of local marketing organizations; • compliance with multiple, conflicting, and changing laws and regulations, including employment, tax, trade, privacy, and data protection laws and regulations; • laws and business practices, which may vary from country to country and may favor local competitors; and • tariffs and trade barriers, import/export controls and other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell or develop our products in certain foreign markets. Our operating results and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly changes in the British pound sterling, the Euro and the Indian rupee. These fluctuations could negatively affect our operating results and could cause our net income or loss to vary from quarter to quarter. We do not currently engage in currency hedging activities to limit the risk of exchange rate fluctuations. As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our international operations and reduce our international sales, adversely affecting our business, operating results and financial condition. We may need additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us on favorable terms, or at all, and may dilute your ownership of our common stock. We have historically relied on outside financing and cash from operations to fund our operations, capital expenditures and expansion. We may require additional capital from equity or debt financing in the future to: • take advantage of strategic opportunities including more rapid expansion of our business or the acquisition of complementary products, technologies or businesses; and • develop new products or enhancements to existing products. 26 Table of Contents We may not be able to secure timely additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. The terms of any additional financing may place limits on our financial and operating flexibility. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity, convertible debt securities or other securities convertible into equity, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, if and when we require it, our ability to grow or support our business and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. We may engage in future acquisitions that could disrupt our business, cause dilution to our stockholders and harm our business, operating results or financial condition. We have, from time to time, evaluated acquisition opportunities and may pursue acquisition opportunities in the future. We have very little experience consummating acquisitions, and therefore our ability as an organization to make acquisitions is unproven. We may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates and we may not be able to complete acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. If we do complete acquisitions, we may not ultimately strengthen our competitive position or achieve our goals, or such acquisitions may be viewed negatively by customers, financial markets or investors. In addition, any acquisitions that we make could lead to difficulties in integrating personnel and operations from the acquired businesses and in retaining and motivating key personnel from these businesses. Acquisitions may disrupt our ongoing operations, divert management from day-to-day responsibilities, increase our expenses or adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. Future acquisitions may reduce our cash available for operations and other uses and could result in an increase in amortization expense related to identifiable assets acquired, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we fail to manage future growth effectively, our business could be harmed. We have expanded our operations significantly since inception and anticipate that further significant expansion will be required. For example, our revenues increased from $59.7 million in 2005 to $254.1 million in 2008, and the number of our employees increased from 200 at the beginning of 2005 to 774 as of December 31, 2008. This growth has placed significant demands on our management, as well as our financial and operational resources. If we do not effectively manage our future growth, the efficiency of our operations and the quality of our products could suffer, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. To effectively manage this growth, we will need to continue to: • implement appropriate operational, financial and management controls, systems and procedures, including continued implementation of our enterprise-wide financial system; • expand our manufacturing capacity and scale of production; • expand our sales, marketing and distribution infrastructure and capabilities, in the United States and internationally; and • provide adequate training and supervision to maintain high quality standards. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures could adversely affect our business and the market price of our common stock, and impair our ability to timely file our SEC reports. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, for the year ended December 31, 2008, we performed system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our compliance with 27 Table of Contents Section 404 will continue to require that we incur substantial expense and expend significant management time on compliance-related issues. If we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the NASDAQ Stock Market, the Securities and Exchange Commission or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. Disruptions in financial markets may adversely impact availability and cost of credit and business and consumer spending patterns. Disruptions in the financial markets have had and may continue to have an adverse effect on the U.S. and world economy, which could negatively impact business and consumer spending patterns. Current tightening of credit in financial markets also adversely affects the ability of our customers and suppliers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations and could result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for our products. In particular, the availability of financing may be critical to the expansion plans of mobile operators. Further, changes in employment and consumer spending patterns may slow the adoption of data-enabled wireless devices and reduce the growth of data traffic for mobile operators, which could result in delays or cancellations of upgrades and new purchases of our products. There is no assurance that government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets will restore business and consumer confidence, stabilize the markets or increase liquidity and the availability of credit. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in international markets. Our products are subject to United States export controls and may be exported outside the United States only with the required level of export license or through an export license exception, because we incorporate encryption technology into our products. In addition, various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products or could limit our customers’ ability to implement our products in those countries. Changes in our products or changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products throughout their networks or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries altogether. Any change in export or import laws and regulations, shifts in approach to the enforcement or scope of existing laws and regulations, or change in the countries, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential customers with international operations. Any decreased use of our products or limitation on our ability to export or sell our products would likely adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We are subject to U.S. laws and regulations that prohibit certain practices that may be common in certain foreign countries in which we operate; failure to adhere to these laws and regulations could negatively affect our business and operating results. Our international operations are subject to certain U.S. laws and regulations applicable to us, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from those in the United States. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or United States regulations applicable to us. Although we implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and policies, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents will not take actions in violation of them. Violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors or agents could result in financial reporting problems, fines, penalties, or prohibition on the importation or exportation of our products and could adversely affect our business and operating results. 28 Table of Contents Compliance with environmental matters and worker health and safety laws could be costly, and noncompliance with these laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, expenses and financial condition. Some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state, local and international laws governing the environment and worker health and safety, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the ground, air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, and the cleanup of contaminated sites. Some of our products are subject to various federal, state, local and international laws governing chemical substances in electronic products. We could be subject to increased costs, fines, civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury claims if we violate or become liable under environmental and/or worker health and safety laws. In January 2003, the European Union, or EU, issued two directives relating to chemical substances in electronic products. The Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, referred to as WEEE, requires producers of electrical goods to pay for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. The deadline for enacting and implementing the WEEE directive was August 13, 2004, although extensions were granted in some countries. Producers became financially responsible under WEEE related legislation beginning in August 2005. The other directive, the Restriction on the use of certain Hazardous Substances, referred to as RoHS, restricts lead and other hazardous substances in electronic equipment placed on the EU market after July 1, 2006. If we fail to continue to comply with these directives, we may suffer a loss of revenues, be unable to sell our products in certain markets and countries, be subject to penalties and fines or suffer a competitive disadvantage. Similar legislation could be enacted in other jurisdictions, including in China, Japan or the United States, and the scope of new legislation with respect to currently unregulated substances is uncertain. Costs to comply with WEEE or RoHS related legislation or similar future legislation, if applicable, could include costs associated with modifying our products, recycling and other waste processing costs, legal and regulatory costs and insurance costs. We are currently in compliance with these directives; however, we have incurred significant costs related to compliance with current requirements. The costs to comply with current and future environmental and worker health and safety laws may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, expenses and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Our ability to compete and the success of our business could be jeopardized if we are unable to rely on our patent rights. Our success and ability to compete depends in part upon our ability to obtain protection in the United States and other countries for our products by establishing and maintaining intellectual property rights relating to or incorporated into our technology and products. We own a variety of patents and patent applications in the United States and corresponding patents and patent applications in foreign jurisdictions. However, we have not obtained patent protection in each market in which we plan to compete. To date, our patent portfolio has not prevented other companies from competing against us, and we do not know how successful we would be if we sought to enforce our patent rights against suspected infringers. Our pending and future patent applications may not issue as patents or, if issued, may not issue in a form that will be advantageous to us. Even if issued, patents may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing similar products or limit the length of term of patent protection we may have for our products. Changes in either patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. Any circumstance or change that results in patent protection not being available for our products could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our unpatented proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology and products could be adversely affected. In addition to patented technology, we rely upon unpatented proprietary technology, processes and know-how. We generally seek to protect this information in part by confidentiality agreements with our employees, 29 Table of Contents consultants and third parties. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology and products could be adversely affected, which could in turn adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Claims by others that we infringe their proprietary technology could force us to incur significant costs. Third parties have asserted, and may assert in the future, claims that our products infringe patents or patent applications under which we do not hold licenses or other rights. Third parties may own or control these patents and patent applications in the United States and abroad. These third parties have brought, and could in the future bring, claims against us that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, could cause us to pay substantial damages. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us, we could be forced to stop or delay manufacturing or sales of the product that is the subject of the suit. In addition, we could be forced to redesign the product that uses any allegedly infringing technology. We are presently defending two lawsuits brought by UTStarcom, Inc. In February 2005, UTStarcom filed a lawsuit asserting infringement of a patent in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California relating to a prepaid billing function we provided to one of our customers. This patent lawsuit by UTStarcom has been stayed pending a reissue proceeding of the patent asserted in the case. After the reissue proceeding, the stay of the lawsuit likely will be lifted and the lawsuit may proceed. If this occurs, we will continue to defend ourselves in this litigation, which will require a significant investment of time and financial resources. A finding that we have infringed this patent may require us to pay damages based on our past sale of the prepaid billing function and, in addition, may force us to limit or cease development, manufacturing and sales of the prepaid billing function. This could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In May 2007, UTStarcom filed a lawsuit against us and a number of our employees and former employees in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. UTStarcom has amended its complaint several times and, as amended, alleges in the re-filed version of its Fourth Amended Complaint violations of the Illinois Trade Secrets Act, conspiracy to misappropriate trade secrets, infringement of patents assigned to UTStarcom, intentional interference with UTStarcom’s business relations and declarations of ownership relating to one of our patents and certain of our patent applications, copyright infringement, breach of restrictive covenants against the employee and former employee defendants, and aiding and abetting the employee and former employee defendants’ breach of fiduciary duty of loyalty and the employment agreements. The complaint contains allegations, among others, that a number of former employees of a business unit UTStarcom acquired, who subsequently worked for us, took UTStarcom’s trade secrets with them and improperly used those trade secrets to develop, manufacture and market our 3G wireless products, and that such products incorporate UTStarcom confidential technical information, including UTStarcom’s proprietary virtual private network and EV-DO features. UTStarcom further alleges that we have disclosed UTStarcom’s trade secrets in one of our patents and seven of our patent applications, and that this patent and these patent applications legally belong to UTStarcom based on the inventors’ previous work at the business unit acquired by UTStarcom. In this lawsuit, UTStarcom seeks unspecified monetary damages, punitive damages, injunctive relief, declarations of ownership relating to the specified patent and patent applications owned by us, findings of misappropriation of trade secrets, patent infringement and copyright infringement, costs and attorneys fees. We intend to continue to vigorously defend ourselves in this litigation. The defense of this lawsuit and the prosecution of our counterclaims will require significant investment of time and financial resources. A finding in UTStarcom’s favor in this lawsuit may require us to pay substantial damages based on the past sales of our ST16 product, may force us to pay royalties on past or future sales of our ST16 or ST40 products, may force us to limit or cease development, manufacturing and sales of the ST16 and ST40, which are our only product platforms, may require that key employees be transferred to other positions or functions, or temporarily prohibited from working for us, and may result in the loss or assignment of ownership of a specified patent and seven patent applications owned by us. This could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 30 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that in the future other third parties will not assert that our technology violates their intellectual property rights or that we will not be the subject of a material intellectual property dispute. Regardless of the merit of any particular claim that our technology violates the intellectual property rights of others, responding to such claims may require us to: • incur substantial expenses and expend significant management efforts; • pay damages; • cease making, licensing or using products that are alleged to incorporate the intellectual property of others; • enter into potentially unfavorable royalty or license agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies; and • expend additional development resources to redesign our products. We may also be required to indemnify customers, distributors or systems integrators for their use of the intellectual property associated with the current suit or for other third-party products that are incorporated into our products and that infringe the intellectual property rights of others. If we are unable to resolve our legal obligations by settling or paying an infringement claim or a related indemnification claim as described above, we may be required to refund amounts that we had received under the contractual arrangement with the customers, distributors or systems integrators. In addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other types of patent litigation and other proceedings, including interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office and opposition proceedings in the European Patent Office, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our products and technology. The cost to us of any patent litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their greater financial resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also require significant commitments of time by our management. Our use of open source could impose limitations on our ability to commercialize our products. We incorporate open source software into our products. Although we monitor our use of open source software closely, the terms of many open source licenses to which we are subject have not been interpreted by United States or foreign courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. In such event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our products, to re-engineer our products or to discontinue sales of our products, any of which could materially adversely affect our business. We rely on the availability of licenses for intellectual property from third parties, and if these licenses are not available to us on commercially reasonable terms, product sales and development may be delayed. We incorporate certain third-party technologies, including software programs, into our products and may need to utilize additional third-party technologies in the future. However, licenses to relevant third-party technology may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Therefore, we could face delays in product releases until alternative technology can be identified, licensed or developed, and integrated into our current products. These delays, if they occur, could materially adversely affect our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 31 Table of Contents 