Item 1A. Risk Factors The Bank’s increased emphasis on commercial real estate and commercial lending may expose it to increased lending risks. In recent years, the Bank has significantly increased its emphasis on commercial real estate lending. Commercial real estate loans increased from $75.0 million, or 15.5% of its total loans, at September 30, 2005 to $136.1 million, or 33.3% of its total loans, at September 30, 2009. Moreover, as part of the Bank’s strategy to increase earnings, it will seek to continue to increase commercial real estate lending, as well as commercial lending, and intends to add commercial lending personnel to assist in these efforts. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than single-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers and, for construction loans, the accuracy of the estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction and the estimated cost of construction. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to single-family residential mortgage loans. Commercial business loans expose the Bank to additional risks since they typically are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayments from the cash flow of the borrower’s business and are secured by non-real estate collateral that may depreciate over time. In addition, since such loans generally entail greater risk than single-family residential mortgage loans, the Bank may need to increase its allowance for loan losses in the future to account for the possible increase in credit 34 Table of Contents losses associated with the growth of such loans. Also, many of the Bank’s commercial and construction borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with the Bank. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose the Bank to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a single-family residential mortgage loan. Changes in interest rates could reduce the Bank’s net interest income and earnings. The Bank’s net interest income is the interest it earns on loans and investments less the interest it pays on its deposits and borrowings. The net interest margin is the difference between the yield the Bank earns on its assets and the interest rate it pays for deposits and its other sources of funding. Changes in interest rates—up or down—could adversely affect the Bank’s net interest margin and, as a result, its net interest income. Although the yield the Bank earns on its assets and its funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing the Bank’s net interest margin to expand or contract. Liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than the Bank’s assets, so they may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates. As a result, when interest rates rise, the Bank’s funding costs may rise faster than the yield it earns on its assets, causing the Bank’s net interest margin to contract until the yield catches up. Changes in the slope of the “yield curve”—or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates—could also reduce net interest margin. Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. Because the Bank’s liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than its assets, when the yield curve flattens or even inverts, the Bank could experience pressure on its net interest margin as its cost of funds increases relative to the yield that can be earned on its assets. The Bank does not expect to recover all of its losses from a check-kiting scheme perpetrated against it in 2006, and its recovery efforts are expected to take a long period of time and may result in further expenses or litigation. In late June 2006, the Bank became aware of a check-kiting scheme perpetrated by a single commercial deposit customer. It is believed that this scheme took place over an extended period of time prior to its discovery by the Bank in June 2006. As a result of this check-kiting scheme, the Bank incurred an after-tax loss of $6.9 million. During the quarter ended March 31, 2007, the Bank reached a settlement with its insurance provider, pursuant to which it received a recovery of $2.2 million net of taxes in settlement of a bond claim with our insurance carrier. The Bank is aggressively pursuing collection of the remaining check-kiting losses from the customer, but the customer has filed for bankruptcy and one of the two principals of the customer has committed suicide. It does not appear that the customer, the surviving principal or the estate of the deceased principal has material assets from which the Bank could make any recovery, particularly after payment of bankruptcy expenses by the bankruptcy estate of the customer. Moreover, there are other secured and unsecured creditors who are asserting additional and competing claims against the bankruptcy estate of the customer and certain principals of the customer. The recovery process is uncertain and is expected to require an extended period of time to resolve. The Bank will incur further expenses in pursuing its recovery efforts, and litigation expenses involving the bankruptcy matter and other inter-creditor litigation as described under “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” The Bank reported an expense of $103,000 on a pre-tax basis in connection with pursuing and defending various claims in the bankruptcy estate of the former customer and with other litigants with competing claims seeking to recover limited available assets Management felt it was prudent to recognize this expense in light of the complex and protracted nature of the ongoing proceeding. In addition, the negative publicity from the check-kiting scheme adversely affected the Bank’s ability in the short term to attract and retain deposits. The Bank has examined all deposit accounts with more than a minimal negative balance and believes it does not have a risk of additional material check-kiting losses at this time. The Bank also has developed and implemented additional procedures to detect check-kiting that it believes will further reduce the risk of future check-kiting losses. A further downturn in the local economy or a further decline in real estate values could hurt our profits. Much of the Bank’s loans are in Baltimore, Harford and Howard Counties and Baltimore City in Maryland. As a result, a downturn in the local economy, and, particularly, a downturn in real estate values, could cause significant increases in non-performing loans, which would adversely affect profits. Additionally, a decrease in asset quality could require additions to the Bank’s allowance for loan losses through increased provisions for loan losses, which would negatively affect profits. A decline in real estate values could also cause some of the Bank’s mortgage loans to become inadequately collateralized, which would expose it to a greater risk of loss. 35 Table of Contents If we conclude that the decline in value of any of our investment securities is other than temporary, we are required to write down the value of that security through a charge to earnings. We review our investment securities portfolio at each quarter-end reporting period to determine whether the fair value is below the current carrying value. When the fair value of any of our investment securities has declined below its carrying value, we are required to assess whether the decline is other-than-temporary. If we conclude that the decline is other-than-temporary, we are required to write down the value of that security through a charge to earnings. As of September 30, 2009, our mortgage-backed securities portfolio included 84 securities with a book value of $93.5 million and an estimated fair value of $90.5 million. Changes in the expected cash flows of these securities and/or prolonged price declines may result in our concluding in future periods that the impairment of these securities is other-than-temporary, which would require a charge to earnings to write down theses securities to their fair value. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2009, we wrote down these securities for an other-than-temporary impairment of $500,000. Any charges for other-than-temporary impairment would not impact cash flow, tangible capital or liquidity. Future FDIC assessments will hurt our earnings. In May 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule imposing a special assessment on all insured institutions due to recent bank and savings association failures. The emergency assessment amounts to 5 basis points of total assets minus Tier 1 Capital as of June 30, 2009, and was accrued for as of June 30, 2009. The Bank’s special assessment was $270,000. In addition, the final rule allows the FDIC to impose additional emergency special assessments of up to 5 basis points per quarter for the third and fourth quarters of calendar year 2009 if necessary to maintain public confidence in federal deposit insurance or as a result of deterioration in the deposit insurance fund reserve ratio due to institution failures. Any additional emergency special assessment imposed by the FDIC will further hurt the Company’s earnings. On December 30, 2009, the Bank is required to prepay 39 months of FDIC insurance. There can be no assurances that additional assessments will not occur. Our allowance for loan losses may be inadequate, which could hurt our earnings. When borrowers default and do not repay the loans that we make to them, we may lose money. The allowance for loan losses is the amount estimated by management as necessary to cover probable losses in the loan portfolio at the statement of financial condition date. The allowance is established through the provision for loan losses, which is charged to income. Determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses necessarily involves a high degree of judgment. Among the material estimates required to establish the allowance are: loss exposure at default; the amount and timing of future cash flows on impacted loans; value of collateral; and determination of loss factors to be applied to the various elements of the portfolio. If our estimates and judgments regarding such matters prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses might not be sufficient, and additional loan loss provisions might need to be made. Depending on the amount of such loan loss provisions, the adverse impact on our earnings could be material. In addition, bank regulators may require us to make a provision for loan losses or otherwise recognize further loan charge-offs following their periodic review of our loan portfolio, our underwriting procedures, and our loan loss allowance. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by such regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Please see “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” for a discussion of the procedures we follow in establishing our loan loss allowance. Strong competition within Baltimore County Savings Bank’s market area could adversely affect profits and slow growth. The Bank faces intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for the Bank to make new loans and at times has forced us to offer higher deposit rates. Price 36 Table of Contents competition for loans and deposits might result in the Bank earning less on loans and paying more on deposits, which would reduce net interest income. Some of the institutions with which it competes have substantially greater resources and lending limits than the Bank has and may offer services that the Bank does not provide. The Bank expects competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. The Bank’s profitability depends upon its continued ability to compete successfully in its market area. The Bank and Company operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. Both the Bank and the Company are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision, their primary federal regulator, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of the Bank’s deposits. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of the Bank rather than holders of the Company’s common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on operations. Proposed regulatory reform may have a material impact on the value of our stock. The Obama Administration has published a comprehensive regulatory reform plan that is intended to modernize and protect the integrity of the United States financial system and has offered proposed legislation to accomplish these reforms. The President’s plan contains several elements that would have a direct effect on the Company and the Bank. Under the initial proposed legislation, the federal thrift charter and the Office of Thrift Supervision would have been eliminated and all companies that control an insured depository institution would be required to register as a bank holding company. The House Financial Services Committee, in cooperation with the Treasury Department, has prepared alternative legislation that would preserve the thrift charter as well as federal mutual holding companies. Under this legislation, the Office of Thrift Supervision would be merged into the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and a division within that agency would regulate federal thrifts. All holding companies of thrifts would be bank holding companies regulated by the Federal Reserve. Registration as a bank holding company would represent a significant change, as there currently exist significant differences between savings and loan holding company and bank holding company supervision and regulation. For example, the Federal Reserve imposes leverage and risk-based capital requirements on bank holding companies whereas the Office of Thrift Supervision does not impose any capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies. The Administration has also proposed the creation of a new federal agency, the Consumer Financial Protection Agency, that would be dedicated to protecting consumers in the financial products and services market. The creation of this agency could result in new regulatory requirements and raise the cost of regulatory compliance. In addition, legislation stemming from the reform plan could require changes in regulatory capital requirements, loan loss provisioning practices, and compensation practices. If implemented, the foregoing regulatory reforms may have a material impact on our operations. However, because the final legislation may differ significantly from the reform plan proposed by the President or from what is currently being discussed by Congress, we cannot determine the specific impact of regulatory reform at this time. The market price of our common stock may be materially adversely affected by market volatility. Many publicly traded financial services companies have recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance or prospects of such companies. We may experience market fluctuations that are not directly related to our operating performance, but are influenced by the market’s perception of the state of the financial services industry in general and, in particular, the market’s assessment of general credit quality conditions, including default and foreclosure rates in the industry. 37 Table of Contents The limitations on executive compensation imposed through our participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program may restrict our ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees, which could adversely affect our operations. As part of our participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program, we agreed to be bound by certain executive compensation restrictions, including limitations on severance payments and the clawback of any bonus and incentive compensation that were based on materially inaccurate financial statements or any other materially inaccurate performance metric criteria. Subsequent to the issuance of the preferred stock, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”) was enacted, which provides more stringent limitations on severance pay and the payment of bonuses. To the extent that any of these compensation restrictions do not permit us to provide a comprehensive compensation package to our key employees that is competitive in our market area, we have difficulty in attracting, retaining and motivating our key employees, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Future dividend payments and common stock repurchases are restricted by the terms of the U.S. Treasury’s equity investment in us. Under the terms of the TARP Capital Purchase Program, until the earlier of the third anniversary of the date of issuance of the Company’s Series A Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock and the date on which the Series A Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock has been redeemed in whole or the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the Series A Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock to third parties, we are prohibited from increasing dividends on our common stock above $0.125 per share and from making certain repurchases of equity securities, including our common stock, without the consent of the U.S. Treasury. Furthermore, as long as the Series A Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock is outstanding, dividend payments and repurchases or redemptions relating to certain equity securities, including our common stock, are prohibited until all accrued and unpaid dividends are paid on such preferred stock, subject to certain limited exceptions. The terms governing the issuance of the preferred stock to the U.S. Treasury may be changed, the effect of which may have an adverse effect on our operations. The terms of the Securities Purchase Agreement in which we entered into with U.S. Treasury pursuant to the TARP Capital Purchase Program provides that the U.S. Treasury may unilaterally amend any provision of the Purchase Agreement to the extent required to comply with any changes in applicable federal law that may occur in the future. We have no assurances that changes in the terms of the transaction will not occur in the future. Such changes may place restrictions on our business or results of operation, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 38 Table of Contents 