Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below. These risks are not the only risks that we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected which could cause our actual operating results to differ materially from those indicated or suggested by forward-looking statements made in this annual report on Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. Risks Related to Our Business We are a party to several lawsuits, and an adverse outcome in any or all of those lawsuits is possible, which could have a significant, adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. If an injunction were entered against us it could force us to cease providing our CDN services. We are currently a defendant in two significant lawsuits and formerly a defendant in a third significant lawsuit, (see discussion in “Legal Proceedings” in Part I, Item 3 of this annual report on Form 10-K). In each case, we currently have favorable rulings, but we cannot provide any assurance that these favorable rulings won’t be overturned or reversed on appeal, or that the ultimate outcome of any of these lawsuits won’t be materially adverse to us. The expenses of defending these lawsuits and other lawsuits to which we may become a party, particularly fees paid to our lawyers and expert consultants, have been significant and may continue to adversely affect our operating results during the pendency of the lawsuits. Also, this litigation has been a distraction to our management in operating our business. Now that the trial and appeal phases of these lawsuits have concluded, we expect that our litigation expenses will reduce on a quarterly basis for the foreseeable future and that the distraction to management in operating our business will also decrease. 10 Table of Contents In February 2008, a jury returned a verdict in a patent infringement lawsuit filed by Akamai Technologies, Inc., or Akamai, and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, or MIT, against us, finding that we infringed four claims of the patent at issue and rejecting our invalidity defenses. The jury awarded Akamai an aggregate of approximately $45.5 million in lost profits, reasonable royalties and price erosion damages, plus pre-judgment interest estimated to be $2.6 million that we recorded in 2007. During 2008 we recorded an additional provision of approximately $17.5 million for potential additional infringement damages and interest. The court conducted a bench trial in November 2008, regarding our equitable defenses; and we filed a motion for reconsideration of the court’s earlier denial of our motion for Judgment as a Matter of Law (JMOL). Our motion for JMOL was based largely upon a clarification in the standard for a finding of joint infringement articulated by the Federal Circuit in the case of Muniauction, Inc. v. Thomson Corp. (the Muniauction Case), released after the court denied our initial motion for JMOL. On April 24, 2009 the court issued its order and memorandum setting aside the adverse jury verdict and ruling that we do not infringe Akamai’s ‘703 patent and that we are entitled to judgment as a matter of law. Based upon the court’s April 24, 2009 order we have reversed the provision for litigation relating to this matter as we no longer believe that payment of any amounts represented by the litigation provision is probable. Akamai appealed the judgment, and on June 7, 2010 the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit heard oral argument on this matter. On December 20, 2010 the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit affirmed the District Court’s grant of our motion for judgment as a matter of law. On February 18, 2011, Akamai filed a motion with the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit seeking a rehearing and rehearing en banc. We believe that we do not infringe Akamai’s patents and will continue to vigorously defend our position; however, we cannot provide any assurance that the lawsuit ultimately will be resolved in our favor. An adverse ruling could seriously impact our ability to conduct our business and to offer our products and services to our customers. A permanent injunction could prevent us from operating our CDN to deliver certain types of traffic, which could impact the viability of our business. Any adverse ruling, in turn, would harm our revenue, market share, reputation, liquidity and overall financial position. In January 2009, in a patent infringement lawsuit filed against us by Level 3 Communications LLC, or Level 3, a jury returned a verdict finding that we did not infringe any of the claims of the patents at issue in that case. The court denied Level 3’s subsequent motion for JMOL or alternatively for a new trial, and entered judgment in our favor. Level 3 appealed that decision. On May 3, 2010 the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit heard oral argument on this matter, and on May 5, 2010 the court affirmed the District Court judgment in our favor. Level 3 filed motions for rehearing and rehearing en banc, which were both denied. We consider this matter successfully concluded. In August 2007, we, certain of our officers and directors, and the firms that served as the lead underwriters in our initial public offering were named as defendants in several purported class action lawsuits. These lawsuits have been consolidated into a single lawsuit in United States District Court for the District of Arizona. The consolidated complaint asserts causes of action under Sections 11, 12 and 15 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, on behalf of a professed class consisting of all those who were allegedly damaged as a result of acquiring our common stock in our initial public offering (IPO) between June 8, 2007 and August 8, 2007. The complaint seeks compensatory damages and plaintiffs’ costs and expenses in the litigation. The complaint alleges, among other things, that we omitted and/or misstated certain facts concerning the seasonality of our business and the loss of revenue with respect to certain customers. On March 17, 2008, we and the individual defendants moved to dismiss all of the plaintiffs’ claims, and a hearing was held on this motion on June 16, 2008. On August 8, 2008, the court granted the motion to dismiss, dismissing plaintiffs’ claims under Section 12 with prejudice and granting leave to amend the claims under Sections 11 and 15. Plaintiffs chose not to amend the claims under Sections 11 and 15, and on August 29, 2008 the court entered judgment in favor of us. On September 5, 2008, plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal, and appellate briefs were filed by the parties in January and February 2009. We do have in place directors and officers liability insurance and notice of this matter has been given to the insurance carriers. The insurance has reimbursed certain of the expenses incurred by us in defending this action. In November 2009 the parties entered into a Memorandum of Understanding to settle this lawsuit for an amount well within the coverage limits of the primary carrier of our directors and officers liability insurance, 11 Table of Contents and on July 7, 2010 the parties entered into a settlement agreement consistent with the terms of the Memorandum of Understanding, which will require court approval. A hearing before the Federal District Court is currently scheduled for March 22, 2011. We anticipate court approval of the settlement. Although we believe that we and the individual defendants have meritorious defenses to the claims made in the complaint, there can be no assurance at this time that the settlement will be approved by the court, or otherwise completed. If we receive an adverse ruling with respect to the approval of the settlement in this case and we subsequently receive an adverse judgment which exceeds the amount of our directors and officers liability insurance coverage or that insurance is not available to satisfy the judgment, such a ruling could harm our liquidity and overall financial position. We may need to defend our intellectual property and processes against patent or copyright infringement claims, which would cause us to incur substantial costs and threaten our ability to do business. Companies, organizations or individuals, including our competitors, may hold or obtain patents or other proprietary rights that would prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or sell our services or develop new services, which could make it more difficult for us to operate our business. From time to time, we may receive inquiries from holders of patents inquiring whether we infringe their proprietary rights. Companies holding Internet-related patents or other intellectual property rights are increasingly bringing suits alleging infringement of such rights or otherwise asserting their rights and seeking licenses. In addition, many of our agreements with customers require us to indemnify such customers for third-party intellectual property infringement claims against them. Pursuant to such agreements, we may be required to defend such customers against certain claims which could cause us to incur additional significant costs. Any litigation or claims, whether or not valid, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. See “Legal Proceeding” in Part I, Item 3 of this annual report on Form 10-K. In addition, if we are determined to have infringed upon a third party’s intellectual property rights, we may be required to do one or more of the following: • cease selling, incorporating or using products or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • pay substantial damages; • obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right, which license may or may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; or • redesign products or services. If we are forced to take any of these actions, our business may be seriously harmed. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us and our failure or inability to obtain a license to the infringed technology, our business and operating results could be harmed. We use certain “open-source” software the use of which could result in our having to distribute our proprietary software, including our source code, to third parties on unfavorable terms which could materially affect our business. Certain of our service offerings use software that is subject to open-source licenses. Open-source code is software that is freely accessible, usable and modifiable. Certain open-source code is governed by license agreements, the terms of which could require users of such open-source code to make any derivative works of such open-source code available to others on unfavorable terms or at no cost. Because we use open-source code, we may be required to take remedial action in order to protect our proprietary software. Such action could include replacing certain source code used in our software, discontinuing certain of our products or taking other actions that could divert resources away from our development efforts. In addition, the terms relating to disclosure of derivative works in many open-source licenses are unclear. We periodically review our compliance with the open-source licenses we use and do not believe we will be required to make our proprietary software freely available. However, if a court interprets one or more such open-source licenses in a manner that is unfavorable to us, we could be required to make our software available at no cost. 12 Table of Contents We currently face competition from established competitors and may face competition from others in the future. We compete in markets that are intensely competitive, rapidly changing and characterized by constantly declining prices and vendors offering a wide range of content delivery solutions. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience increased competition, and particularly aggressive price competition. Many of our current competitors, as well as a number of our potential competitors, have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, broader customer relationships and industry alliances and substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. As a consequence of the competitive dynamics in our market we have experienced reductions in our prices, which in turn adversely affect our revenue, gross margin and operating results. Our primary competitors include content delivery service providers such as Akamai, Level 3 Communications, AT&T, CDNetworks and Internap Network Services Corporation, which acquired VitalStream. Also, as a result of the growth of the content delivery market, a number of companies have recently entered or are currently attempting to enter our market, either directly or indirectly, some of which may become significant competitors in the future. Our largest value-added service, the EyeWonder brand, faces formidable competition in every aspect of our business from other companies that provide solutions and services similar to those offered by us. Currently, the EyeWonder business unit’s primary competitors are DoubleClick, Eyeblaster, Pointroll, a subsidiary of Gannett, and Atlas. DoubleClick is owned by Google and Atlas is part of the Microsoft Advertising portfolio. DoubleClick and Atlas offer solutions and services similar to those offered by us and compete directly with us. We expect that Google and Microsoft will use their substantial financial and engineering resources to expand the DoubleClick and Atlas businesses and increase their ability to compete with us. We believe that both Google and Microsoft have a greater ability to attract and retain customers due to numerous competitive advantages, including their ability to offer and provide their marketing and advertising customers with a significantly broader range of related solutions and services than us. Google and Microsoft may use their experience and resources to compete with us in a variety of ways, including through acquisitions of competitors or related businesses, and could also use campaign management solutions as a loss leader or provide campaign management solutions without charge or below cost in order to encourage customers to use their other product offerings. The EyeWonder business unit also faces significant competition from rich-media solutions companies such as Unicast (a DG FastChannel company) and UK-based Flashtalking, as well as ad serving companies such as Zedo and CheckM8. In addition, we may experience competition from companies that provide web analytics or web intelligence. Other companies, such as Yahoo!, also are developing campaign management solutions. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Given the relative ease by which customers typically can switch among providers, differentiated offerings or pricing by competitors could lead to a rapid loss of customers. Some of our current or potential competitors may bundle their offerings with other services, software or hardware in a manner that may discourage content providers from purchasing the services that we offer. In addition, as we expand internationally, we face different market characteristics and competition with local content delivery service providers, many of which are very well positioned within their local markets. Increased competition could result in price reductions and revenue shortfalls, loss of customers and loss of market share, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to manage future growth effectively, we may not be able to market and sell our services successfully. Our future operating results depend to a large extent on our ability to manage expansion and growth successfully. Risks that we face in undertaking this expansion include: training new sales personnel to become productive and generate revenue; forecasting revenue; controlling expenses and investments in anticipation of expanded operations; implementing and enhancing our content delivery network, or CDN, and administrative infrastructure, systems and processes; addressing new markets; and expanding international operations. A failure to manage our growth effectively could materially and adversely affect our ability to market and sell our products and services. 13 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls or fail to implement our controls and procedures with respect to acquired or merged operations, our ability to produce accurate financial statements could be impaired, which could adversely affect our operating results, our ability to operate our business and investors’ views of us. We must ensure that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place so that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis. We are required to spend considerable effort on establishing and maintaining our internal controls, which is costly and time-consuming and needs to be re-evaluated frequently. We have only operated as a public company since June 2007 and we will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses as we comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Nasdaq Stock Market’s Global Market. These rules impose various requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices, increased reporting of compensation arrangements and other requirements. Our management and other personnel will continue to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we include in our annual report our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our audited financial statements as of the end of each fiscal year. Furthermore, our independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP, (E&Y), is required to report on whether it believes we maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of the end of the year. We successfully completed our assessment and obtained E&Y’s attestation as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our continued compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial expense and expend significant management time on compliance related issues, including our efforts in implementing controls and procedures related to acquired or merged operations. We currently do not have an internal audit group and use an international accounting firm to assist us with our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. In future years, if we fail to timely complete this assessment, or if E&Y cannot timely attest, there may be a loss of public confidence in our internal controls, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to regulatory sanctions or investigations by the Nasdaq Stock Market’s Global Market, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. In addition, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to timely meet our regulatory reporting obligations. We may lose customers if they elect to develop content delivery solutions internally. Our customers and potential customers may decide to develop their own content delivery solutions rather than outsource these solutions to CDN services providers like us. This is particularly true as our customers increase their operations and begin expending greater resources on delivering their content using third party solutions. If we fail to offer CDN services that are competitive to in-sourced solutions, we may lose additional customers or fail to attract customers that may consider pursuing this in-sourced approach, and our business and financial results would suffer. 14 Table of Contents We may lose customers if they are unable to build business models that effectively monetize delivery of their content. Some of our customers will not be successful in selling advertising or otherwise monetizing the content we deliver on their behalf and consequently may not be successful in creating a profitable business model. This will result in some of our customers discontinuing their Internet or web-based business operations and discontinuing use of our services and products. Further, weakness and related uncertainty in the global financial markets and economy — which has included, among other things, significant reductions in available capital and liquidity from banks and other providers of credit, substantial reductions and/or fluctuations in equity and currency values worldwide and concerns that the worldwide economy may be in a prolonged recessionary period — may materially adversely impact our customers’ access to capital or willingness to spend capital on our services or in some cases, ultimately cause the customer to file for protection from creditors under applicable insolvency or bankruptcy laws or simply go out of business. This uncertainty may also impact our customers’ levels of cash liquidity, which could affect their ability or willingness to timely pay for services that they will order or have already ordered from us. From time to time we discontinue service to customers for non-payment of services. We expect further customers may discontinue operations or not be willing or able to pay for services that they have ordered from us. Further loss of customers may adversely affect our financial results. Rapidly evolving technologies or new business models could cause demand for our CDN services to decline or could cause these services to become obsolete. Customers or third parties may develop technological or business model innovations that address content delivery requirements in a manner that is, or is perceived to be, equivalent or superior to our CDN services. If competitors introduce new products or services that compete with or surpass the quality or the price/performance of our services, we may be unable to renew our agreements with existing customers or attract new customers at the prices and levels that allow us to generate attractive rates of return on our investment. For example, one or more third parties might develop improvements to current peer-to-peer technology, which is a technology that relies upon the computing power and bandwidth of its participants, such that this technological approach is better able to deliver content in a way that is competitive to our CDN services, or even makes CDN services obsolete. We may not anticipate such developments and may be unable to adequately compete with these potential solutions. In addition, our customers’ business models may change in ways that we do not anticipate and these changes could reduce or eliminate our customers’ needs for CDN services. If this occurred, we could lose customers or potential customers, and our business and financial results would suffer. As a result of these or similar potential developments, in the future it is possible that competitive dynamics in our market may require us to reduce our prices, which could harm our revenue, gross margin and operating results. If we are unable to sell our services at acceptable prices relative to our costs, our revenue and gross margins will decrease, and our business and financial results will suffer. Prices for CDN services have fallen in recent years and are likely to fall further in the future. We have invested significant amounts in purchasing capital equipment to increase the capacity of our CDN services. For example, in 2007, 2008 and 2009 we invested $22.3 million, $17.4 million and $20.4 million, respectively, in capital expenditures primarily for computer equipment associated with the build-out and expansion of our CDN. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we invested $34.2 million. Our investments in our infrastructure are based upon our assumptions regarding future demand and also prices that we will be able to charge for our services. These assumptions may prove to be wrong. If the price that we are able to charge customers to deliver their content falls to a greater extent than we anticipate, if we over-estimate future demand for our services or if our costs to deliver our services do not fall commensurate with any future price declines, we may not be able to achieve acceptable rates of return on our infrastructure investments and our gross profit and results of operations may suffer dramatically. During 2011, as we further expand our CDN services and begin to refresh our network equipment, we expect our capital expenditures to be approximately 15% of total revenue. As a consequence, we are dependent 15 Table of Contents on significant future growth in demand for our services to provide the necessary gross profit to pay these additional expenses. If we fail to generate significant additional demand for our services, our results of operations will suffer and we may fail to achieve planned or expected financial results. There are numerous factors that could, alone or in combination with other factors, impede our ability to increase revenue, moderate expenses or maintain gross margins, including: • failure to increase sales of our core services; • increases in electricity, bandwidth and rack space costs or other operating expenses, and failure to achieve decreases in these costs and expenses relative to decreases in the prices we can charge for our services and products; • inability to maintain our prices relative to our costs; • failure of our current and planned services and software to operate as expected; • loss of any significant customers or loss of existing customers at a rate greater than our increase in new customers or our sales to existing customers; • failure to increase sales of our services to current customers as a result of their ability to reduce their monthly usage of our services to their minimum monthly contractual commitment; • failure of a significant number of customers to pay our fees on a timely basis or at all or failure to continue to purchase our services in accordance with their contractual commitments; and • inability to attract high quality customers to purchase and implement our current and planned services. If we are unable to develop new services and enhancements to existing services or fail to predict and respond to emerging technological trends and customers’ changing needs, our operating results may suffer. The market for our CDN and value-added services is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and new product and service introductions. Our operating results depend on our ability to predict user preferences or industry changes, and modify our solutions and services on a timely basis or develop and introduce new services into existing and emerging markets. The process of developing new technologies is complex and uncertain. We must commit significant resources to developing new services or enhancements to our existing services before knowing whether our investments will result in services the market will accept. Furthermore, we may not execute successfully our technology initiatives because of errors in planning or timing, technical hurdles that we fail to overcome in a timely fashion, misunderstandings about market demand or a lack of appropriate resources. As prices for CDN continue to fall, we will increasingly rely on new product offerings and other value-added services to maintain or increase our gross margins. Failures in execution or market acceptance of new services we introduce could result in competitors providing those solutions before we do, which could lead to loss of market share, revenue and earnings. Advertisers may not find Internet advertising effective and may reduce their allocations of advertisement spending on Internet campaigns. Most large advertisers have fixed advertising budgets, a very small portion of which is allocated to Internet advertising. The future success of our EyeWonder business depends highly on an increase in the use of the Internet, the commitment of advertisers and advertising agencies to the Internet as an advertising and marketing medium, the advertisers’ implementation of advertising campaigns, and the willingness of current or potential customers to outsource their Internet advertising and marketing needs. If the market for Internet advertising or marketing deteriorates, or develops more slowly than we expect, our business could suffer. The market for Internet advertising and marketing is relatively new and rapidly evolving, and we expect that large advertisers will continue to focus most of their advertising efforts on traditional media. Advertisers, including current and potential customers, may also find Internet advertising or marketing to be less effective than traditional media advertising or marketing methods for promoting their products and services, and therefore may decrease the 16 Table of Contents portion of their budget allocated to Internet advertising or may shift their advertising away from the Internet. Even if Internet advertising increases in the aggregate, if display advertising does not increase, the market for our products and services may not continue to be viable and our revenues may decrease. If we fail to convince these companies to spend a portion of their advertising budgets with us to advertise online, or if our existing advertisers reduce the amount they spend on its services, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our EyeWonder business may be adversely affected by cyclicality or an extended downturn in the United States or worldwide economy in or related to the industries we serve. Revenues for our EyeWonder business unit are generated primarily from providing online campaign management solutions and services to advertising agencies and advertisers across digital media channels and a variety of formats. Demand for these services tends to be tied to economic cycles, reflecting overall economic conditions as well as budgeting and buying patterns. Following the recent negative developments in the world economy, several agency and analyst organizations now predict that the growth in online advertising will be slower than previously expected. We cannot provide assurance that advertising budgets and expenditures by advertising agencies and advertisers will not decline in any given period or that advertising spending will not be diverted to more traditional media or other online marketing products and services, which would lead to a decline in the demand for our campaign management solutions and services. A decline in the economic prospects of advertisers or the economy in general could alter current or prospective customers’ spending priorities. As a result, our revenues may not increase or may decline significantly in any given period. Consolidation of Internet advertising networks, web portals, Internet search engine sites and web publishers may impair our ability to serve advertisements and to collect campaign data, and could lead to a loss of significant customers. The growing trend of consolidation of Internet advertising networks, web portals, Internet search engine sites and web publishers, and increasing industry presence of a small number of large companies, such as Google and Microsoft, could harm our business. We currently are able to serve, track and manage advertisements for our customers in a variety of networks and websites. Concentration of advertising networks or any disruption in our relationship with our publishers could substantially impair our ability to serve advertisements if networks or websites decide not to permit us to serve, track or manage advertisements on their websites, if publishers develop ad placement systems that are not compatible with our systems, or if they use their market power to force their customers to use certain vendors on their networks or websites. These networks or websites also could prohibit or limit our aggregation of advertising campaign data if they use technology that is not compatible with our technology. In addition, concentration of desirable advertising space in a small number of networks and websites could result in pricing pressures and diminish the value of our advertising campaign data, as the value of this data depends to some degree on the continuous aggregation of data from advertising campaigns on a variety of different advertising networks and websites. Additionally, major networks and publishers can terminate our ability to serve advertisements on their properties on short notice. If we are no longer able to serve, track and manage advertisements on a variety of networks and websites, our offerings will be significantly impacted. New advertisement blocking technologies could limit or block the delivery or display of advertisements by our service offerings, which could undermine the viability of our business. Advertisement blocking technologies, such as “filter” software programs, that can limit or block the delivery or display of advertisements delivered through our service offerings are currently available for Internet users and are continuing to be developed. If these technologies become widespread, the commercial viability of the current Internet advertisement model may be undermined. As a result, ad-blocking technology could, in the future, have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents More individuals are using non-personal computer devices to access the Internet, and the solutions developed for these devices may not be widely deployed. The number of people who access the Internet through devices other than personal computers (PCs), including mobile devices, game consoles and television set-top devices, has increased dramatically in the past few years. The lower resolution, functionality and memory associated with alternative devices make the use of our service offerings through these devices more difficult and potentially less effective. If we are unable to deliver our service offerings to a substantial number of alternative device users or if we are slow to develop services and technologies that are more compatible with non-PC Internet-enabled devices, we will fail to capture a significant share of an increasingly important portion of the market. Such a failure could limit our ability to compete effectively in an industry that is rapidly growing and changing. Our EyeWonder business may be adversely affected by malicious third-party software applications that interfere with the function of our technology. Our EyeWonder business may be adversely affected by malicious software applications that make changes to Internet users’ computers and interfere with our technology. These applications may attempt to change the users’ experience in using our services, including altering or replacing advertisements delivered by our platform, changing configurations of our user interface, or otherwise interfering with our ability to deliver advertisements to users’ devices. The interference may occur without disclosure to or consent from users, resulting in a negative experience that users may associate with our services. If our efforts to combat these malicious software applications are unsuccessful, our reputation may be harmed and the communications with certain users on behalf of our customers could be impaired. This could result in a decline in usage of our services and corresponding revenues, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to detect click-through fraud or other invalid clicks, we could lose the confidence of our advertisers, thereby causing our business to suffer. We are exposed to the risk of fraudulent clicks and other invalid clicks on advertisements delivered by us from a variety of potential sources. Invalid clicks are clicks that we have determined are not intended by the user to link to the underlying content, such as inadvertent clicks on the same ad twice and clicks resulting from click fraud. Click fraud occurs when a user intentionally clicks on an ad displayed on a web site for a reason other than to view the underlying content. These types of fraudulent activities could harm our business and brand. If fraudulent clicks are not detected, the data that our solutions provide to customers may be less reliable and the affected advertisers may lose confidence in our solutions to deliver a return on their investment. If advertisers become dissatisfied with our solutions, they may choose to do business with our competitors or reduce their Internet advertising spending. Our business depends on a strong brand reputation of the EyeWonder and Limelight Networks brands, and if we are not able to maintain and enhance our brands, our business will suffer. We believe that maintaining and enhancing the “EyeWonder” and “Limelight Networks” brands is important to expanding our base of customers and maintaining brand loyalty among customers, particularly in North America where brand perception can impact the competitive position in other markets worldwide, and that the importance of brand recognition will increase due to the growing number of competitors providing similar services and solutions. Maintaining and enhancing our brand may require us to make substantial investments in research and development and in the marketing of our solutions and services and these investments may not be successful. If we fail to promote and maintain the “Limelight Networks” and “EyeWonder” brands, or if we incur excessive expenses in this effort, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted. We anticipate that, as our market becomes increasingly competitive, maintaining and enhancing our brand may become increasingly difficult and expensive. Maintaining and enhancing our brand will depend largely on our ability to be a technology leader and to continue to provide high quality solutions and services, which we may not do successfully. 18 Table of Contents We depend on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenue in any fiscal period, and the loss of, or a significant shortfall in demand from these customers could significantly harm our results of operations. During any given fiscal period, a relatively small number of customers typically account for a significant percentage of our revenue. For example, in 2010, sales to our top 10 customers, in terms of revenue, accounted for approximately 30% of our total revenue. During 2009 and 2008, sales to our top 10 customers, in terms of revenue, accounted for approximately 36% and 38%, respectively of our total revenue. During 2010, we had no customer who represented more than 10% of our total revenue. During 2009 and 2008, one of these top 10 customers, Microsoft, represented approximately 14% and 18%, respectively of our total revenue for that period. Microsoft, and other large customers, may not continue to be as significant going forward as they have been in the past. During 2011, we anticipate that our revenue from Microsoft will decline from that earned in 2010 and as a percent of our total revenue. In the past, the customers that comprised our top 10 customers have continually changed, and we also have experienced significant fluctuations in our individual customers’ usage of our services. As a consequence, we may not be able to adjust our expenses in the short term to address the unanticipated loss of a large customer during any particular period. As such, we may experience significant, unanticipated fluctuations in our operating results which may cause us to not meet our expectations or those of stock market analysts, which could cause our stock price to decline. If we are unable to attract new customers or to retain our existing customers, our revenue could be lower than expected and our operating results may suffer. In addition to adding new customers, to increase our revenue, we must sell additional services to existing customers and encourage existing customers to increase their usage levels. If our existing and prospective customers do not perceive our services to be of sufficiently high value and quality, we may not be able to retain our current customers or attract new customers. We sell our services pursuant to service agreements that generally include some form of financial minimum commitment. Our customers have no obligation to renew their contracts for our services after the expiration of their initial commitment, and these service agreements may not be renewed at the same or higher level of service, if at all. Moreover, under some circumstances, some of our customers have the right to cancel their service agreements prior to the expiration of the terms of their agreements. This fact, in addition to the changing competitive landscape in our market, means that we cannot accurately predict future customer renewal rates or usage rates. Our customers’ renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including: • their satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our services; • the prices of our services; • the prices of services offered by our competitors; • discontinuation by our customers of their Internet or web-based content distribution business; • mergers and acquisitions affecting our customer base; and • reductions in our customers’ spending levels. If our customers do not renew their service agreements with us or if they renew on less favorable terms, our revenue may decline and our business will suffer. Similarly, our customer agreements often provide for minimum commitments that are often significantly below our customers’ historical usage levels. Consequently, even if we have agreements with our customers to use our services, these customers could significantly curtail their usage without incurring any penalties under our agreements. In this event, our revenue would be lower than expected and our operating results could suffer. It also is an important component of our growth strategy to market our CDN services to industries, such as enterprise and the government. As an organization, we do not have significant experience in selling our services into these markets. We have only recently begun a number of these initiatives, and our ability to successfully sell 19 Table of Contents our services into these markets to a meaningful extent remains unproven. If we are unsuccessful in such efforts, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. Our results of operations may fluctuate in the future. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If our results of operations fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. In addition to the effects of other risks discussed in this section, fluctuations in our results of operations may be due to a number of factors, including: • our ability to increase sales to existing customers and attract new customers to our CDN and value-added services; • the addition or loss of large customers, or significant variation in their use of our CDN and value-added services; • costs associated with current or future intellectual property lawsuits and other lawsuits; • service outages or security breaches; • the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the maintenance and expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; • the timing and success of new product and service introductions by us or our competitors; • the occurrence of significant events in a particular period that result in an increase in the use of our CDN and value-added services, such as a major media event or a customer’s online release of a new or updated video game; • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; • the timing of recognizing revenue; • limitations of the capacity of our content delivery network and related systems; • the timing of costs related to the development or acquisition of technologies, services or businesses; • general economic, industry and market conditions (such as the fluctuations experienced in the stock and credit markets during the recent deterioration of global economic conditions) and those conditions specific to Internet usage; • limitations on usage imposed by our customers in order to limit their online expenses; and • geopolitical events such as war, threat of war or terrorist actions. Additionally, the operating results for our EyeWonder business unit have historically fluctuated on a quarterly basis due to the seasonal nature of brand-oriented advertising on the Internet, and we expect this fluctuation to continue. The fourth calendar quarter is typically the strongest, and the first quarter is often the weakest quarter for the EyeWonder business unit. The increase in revenue in the fourth quarter is primarily the result of heavy advertising and online shopping during November and December due to the holidays. The drop in revenues in the first quarter is linked to the drop in online advertising and shopping that occurs at the beginning of each year. We believe that cyclicality and seasonality may have a more pronounced effect on our EyeWonder business unit’s operating results in the future, as its growth slows. Our EyeWonder business unit’s operating expenses are relatively fixed in the near term. As a result, we cannot quickly react to changes in revenue and therefore, changes in revenue could lead to changes in our operating results. We believe that our revenue and results of operations may vary significantly in the future and that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. You should not rely on the results of one period as an indication of future performance. 20 Table of Contents After being profitable in 2004 and 2005, we were unprofitable in 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2010, and would have been unprofitable in 2009, had we not reversed a significant reserve for litigation, primarily due to increased stock-based compensation expense and litigation costs, which could affect our ability to achieve and maintain profitability in the future. Our adoption of ASC 718 (formerly FAS 123R) in 2006 substantially increased the amount of share-based compensation expense we record and has had a significant impact on our results of operations. After being profitable in 2004 and 2005, we were unprofitable in 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2010 partially due to our share-based compensation expense which increased from $0.1 million in 2005 to $9.2 million in 2006, to $18.9 million in 2007 to $18.1 million in 2008 and was $17.4 million in 2010. We were profitable in 2009, due to the reversal of a significant reserve for litigation; however our share-based compensation was still significant at $17.5 million for the year. This significant amount of share-based compensation expense reflects an increase in the level of stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock unit (RSU) grants. Our unrecognized share-based compensation expense totaled $27.5 million at December 31, 2010 based on current outstanding stock options and restricted stock units, of which we expect to amortize $13.3 million during 2011, $7.2 million in 2012 and the remainder thereafter based upon the scheduled vesting of the options, restricted stock and RSUs outstanding at that time. Our share-based compensation expense could adversely affect our ability to achieve and maintain profitability in the future. In 2006, we were sued by Akamai and MIT alleging infringement of certain patents. In December 2007, we were sued by Level 3 Communications alleging infringement of certain patents. We have incurred, and will potentially continue to incur, significant costs associated with litigation. These costs were $3.1 million, $7.3 million, $20.8 million and $5.4 million, respectively, in 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we incurred $2.1 million in litigation costs. These costs may continue to be significant during 2011. We generate our revenue primarily from the sale of CDN services, and the failure of the market for these services to expand as we expect or the reduction in spending on those services by our current or potential customers would seriously harm our business. While we offer our customers a number of services associated with our CDN, we generated the majority of our revenue in 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010 from charging our customers for the content delivered on their behalf through our CDN. We are subject to an elevated risk of reduced demand for these services. Furthermore, if the market for delivery of rich media content in particular does not continue to grow as we expect or grows more slowly, then we may fail to achieve a return on the significant investment we are making to prepare for this growth. Our success, therefore, depends on the continued and increasing reliance on the Internet for delivery of media content and our ability to cost-effectively deliver these services. Factors that may have a general tendency to limit or reduce the number of users relying on the Internet for media content or the number of providers making this content available online include a general decline in Internet usage, litigation involving our customers and third party restrictions on online content, including copyright restrictions, digital rights management and restrictions in certain geographic regions, as well as a significant increase in the quality or fidelity of offline media content beyond that available online to the point where users prefer the offline experience. The influence of any of these factors may cause our current or potential customers to reduce their spending on CDN services, which would seriously harm our operating results and financial condition. Many of our significant current and potential customers are pursuing emerging or unproven business models which, if unsuccessful, could lead to a substantial decline in demand for our CDN services. Because the proliferation of broadband Internet connections and the subsequent monetization of content libraries for distribution to Internet users are relatively recent phenomena, many of our customers’ business models that center on the delivery of rich media and other content to users remain unproven. For example, social media companies have been among our top recent customers and are pursuing emerging strategies for monetizing the user content and traffic on their web sites. Our customers will not continue to purchase our CDN services if their investment in providing access to the media stored on or deliverable through our CDN does not generate a sufficient return on their investment. A reduction in spending on CDN services by our current or potential customers would seriously harm our operating results and financial condition. 21 Table of Contents Our business will be adversely affected if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights from unauthorized use or infringement by third parties. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. These legal protections afford only limited protection, and we have only one currently issued patent. Monitoring infringement of our intellectual property rights is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights. We have applied for patent protection in a number of foreign countries, but the laws in these jurisdictions may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that any pending or future patent applications will be granted, that any future patent will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that rights granted under any patent that may be issued will provide competitive advantages to us. Any unplanned interruption in the functioning of our network or services or attacks on our internal information technology systems could lead to significant costs and disruptions that could reduce our revenue and harm our business, financial results and reputation. Our business is dependent on providing our customers with fast, efficient and reliable distribution of application and content delivery services over the Internet. Many of our customers depend primarily or exclusively on our services to operate their businesses. Consequently, any disruption of our services could have a material impact on our customers’ businesses. Our network or services could be disrupted by numerous events, including natural disasters, failure or refusal of our third party network providers to provide the necessary capacity, failure of our software or CDN delivery infrastructure and power losses. In addition, we deploy our servers in third party co-location facilities, and these third-party co-location providers could experience system outages or other disruptions that could constrain our ability to deliver our services. We may also experience disruptions caused by software viruses or other attacks by unauthorized users. While we have not experienced any significant, unplanned disruption of our services to date, our CDN may fail in the future. Despite our significant infrastructure investments, we may have insufficient communications and server capacity to address these or other disruptions, which could result in interruptions in our services. Any widespread interruption of the functioning of our CDN and value-added services for any reason would reduce our revenue and could harm our business and financial results. If such a widespread interruption occurred or if we failed to deliver content to users as expected during a high-profile media event, game release or other well-publicized circumstance, our reputation could be damaged severely. Moreover, any disruptions could undermine confidence in our services and cause us to lose customers or make it more difficult to attract new ones, either of which could harm our business and results of operations. We may have difficulty scaling and adapting our existing architecture to accommodate increased traffic and technology advances or changing business requirements, which could lead to the loss of customers and cause us to incur unexpected expenses to make network improvements. Our CDN services are highly complex and are designed to be deployed in and across numerous large and complex networks. Our network infrastructure has to perform well and be reliable for us to be successful. The greater the user traffic and the greater the complexity of our products and services, the more resources we will need to invest in additional infrastructure and support. Further, as a result of the adverse jury verdict in February 2008 in the Akamai Technologies, Inc. v. Limelight Networks, Inc. lawsuit, which verdict was overturned by the court’s April 24, 2009 order granting our motion for judgment as a matter of law, we made significant investment in designing and implementing changes to our CDN architecture in order to implement our CDN services in a manner we believe does not infringe the claims of Akamai’s ‘703 patent as alleged in the February 2008 trial. We have spent and expect to continue to spend substantial amounts on the purchase and lease of equipment and data centers and the upgrade of our technology and network infrastructure to handle increased traffic over our network, implement changes to our CDN architecture and to roll out new products and services. This expansion 22 Table of Contents is expensive and complex and could result in inefficiencies, operational failures or defects in our network and related software. If we do not implement such changes or expand successfully, or if we experience inefficiencies and operational failures, the quality of our products and services and user experience could decline. From time to time, we have needed to correct errors and defects in our software or in other aspects of our CDN. In the future, there may be additional errors and defects that may harm our ability to deliver our services, including errors and defects originating with third party networks or software on which we rely. These occurrences could damage our reputation and lead us to lose current and potential customers. We must continuously upgrade our infrastructure in order to keep pace with our customers’ evolving demands. Cost increases or the failure to accommodate increased traffic or these evolving business demands without disruption could harm our operating results and financial condition. Our operations are dependent in part upon communications capacity provided by third party telecommunications providers. A material disruption of the communications capacity we have leased could harm our results of operations, reputation and customer relations. We lease private line capacity for our backbone from a third party provider, Global Crossing Ltd. or Global Crossing. Our contracts for private line capacity with Global Crossing generally have terms of three to four years. In January and September 2009, we amended our agreement with Global Crossing to enhance the private line capacity for our backbone. The communications capacity we have leased may become unavailable for a variety of reasons, such as physical interruption, technical difficulties, contractual disputes, or the financial health of our third party provider. As it would be time consuming and expensive to identify and obtain alternative third party connectivity, we are dependent on Global Crossing in the near term. Financial failure of Global Crossing could jeopardize utilization of the service fees pre-paid by us under our agreement with Global Crossing. Additionally, as we grow, we anticipate requiring greater private line capacity than we currently have in place. If we are unable to obtain such capacity on terms commercially acceptable to us or at all, our business and financial results would suffer. We may not be able to deploy on a timely basis enough network capacity to meet the needs of our customer base or effectively manage demand for our services. Our business depends on continued and unimpeded access to third party controlled end-user access networks. Our content delivery services depend on our ability to access certain end-user access networks in order to complete the delivery of rich media and other online content to end-users. Some operators of these networks may take measures, such as the deployment of a variety of filters, that could degrade, disrupt or increase the cost of our or our customers’ access to certain of these end-user access networks by restricting or prohibiting the use of their networks to support or facilitate our services, or by charging increased fees to us, our customers or end-users in connection with our services. This or other types of interference could result in a loss of existing customers, increased costs and impairment of our ability to attract new customers, thereby harming our revenue and growth. In addition, the performance of our infrastructure depends in part on the direct connection of our CDN to a large number of end-user access networks, known as peering, which we achieve through mutually beneficial cooperation with these networks. In some instances, network operators charge us for the peering connections. If, in the future, a significant percentage of these network operators elected to no longer peer with our CDN or peer with our CDN on less favorable economic terms, then the performance of our infrastructure could be diminished, our costs could increase and our business could suffer. If our ability to deliver media files in popular proprietary content formats was restricted or became cost-prohibitive, demand for our content delivery services could decline, we could lose customers and our financial results could suffer. Our business depends on our ability to deliver media content in all major formats. If our legal right or technical ability to store and deliver content in one or more popular proprietary content formats, such as Adobe 23 Table of Contents Flash or Windows Media, was limited, our ability to serve our customers in these formats would be impaired and the demand for our CDN services would decline by customers using these formats. Owners of propriety content formats may be able to block, restrict or impose fees or other costs on our use of such formats, which could lead to additional expenses for us and for our customers, or which could prevent our delivery of this type of content altogether. Such interference could result in a loss of existing customers, increased costs and impairment of our ability to attract new customers, which would harm our revenue, operating results and growth. As part of our business strategy, we may acquire businesses or technologies and may have difficulty integrating these operations. We may seek to acquire businesses or technologies that are complementary to our business. For example, in May 2009, we acquired substantially all of the assets of Kiptronic Inc., a developer of mobility and monetization solutions for content publishers, in January 2010, we acquired chors GmbH, an on-line and direct marketing solutions provider located in Germany, in April 2010, we acquired EyeWonder, Inc., a provider of interactive digital advertising products and services to advertisers, and in July 2010, we acquired Delve Networks, Inc., a provider of online video solutions to manage, publish, measure and monetize high quality video content on the Internet. Acquisitions involve a number of risks to our business, including the difficulty of integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired companies, the potential disruption of our ongoing business, the potential distraction of management, the possibility that our business culture and the business culture of the acquired companies will not be compatible, the difficulty of incorporating acquired technology and rights into our operations, expenses related to the acquisition and to the integration of the acquired companies, the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of any integration of new personnel, risks related to the businesses of acquired companies that may continue to impact the businesses following the merger and potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired companies. Any inability to integrate operations or personnel in an efficient and timely manner could harm our results of operations. In order to realize the expected benefits and synergies of our recent merger with EyeWonder, we must meet a number of significant challenges, including: • integrating the management teams, strategies, cultures, technologies and operations of the two businesses; • retaining and assimilating the key personnel of each company; • retaining existing customers; and • implementing and retaining uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems. Until the completion of the merger on April 30, 2010, we and EyeWonder had operated independently. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of the technical skills and management expertise of key employees, the disruption of each company’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies due to possible cultural conflicts or differences of opinions on technical decisions and services. A failure to integrate the two organizations successfully could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. Even if we are able to integrate the EyeWonder business operations successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of synergies, cost savings, innovation and operational efficiencies that may be possible from this integration, and these benefits may not be achieved within a reasonable period of time. We have little prior experience as a company in this complex process of acquiring and integrating businesses. If we are not successful in completing acquisitions that we may pursue in the future, we may be required to reevaluate our business strategy, and we may incur substantial expenses and devote significant management time and resources without a productive result. In addition, future acquisitions will require the use of our available cash or dilutive issuances of securities. Future acquisitions or attempted acquisitions could also harm our ability to achieve profitability. We may also experience significant turnover from the acquired operations or from our current operations as we integrate businesses. 24 Table of Contents If we are unable to retain our key employees and hire qualified sales and technical personnel, our ability to compete could be harmed. Our future success depends upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key technology, sales, marketing and support personnel who have critical industry experience and relationships that they rely on in implementing our business plan. In particular, we are dependent on the services of our Chief Executive Officer, Jeffrey W. Lunsford and also our Chief Technical Officer, Nathan F. Raciborski. Neither of these officers nor any of our other key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. There is increasing competition for talented individuals with the specialized knowledge to deliver CDN services and this competition affects both our ability to retain key employees and hire new ones. The loss of the services of any of our key employees could disrupt our operations, delay the development and introduction of our services, and negatively impact our ability to sell our services. We face risks associated with international operations that could harm our business. We have operations in numerous foreign countries and may continue to expand our sales and support organizations internationally. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to expand our sales and support organizations internationally, as well as to further expand our international network infrastructure. We have limited experience in providing our services internationally and such expansion could require us to make significant expenditures, including the hiring of local employees, in advance of generating any revenue. As a consequence, we may fail to achieve profitable operations that will compensate our investment in international locations. In addition, expansion into international markets is important to the long-term success of our EyeWonder business, which has only limited experience with operations outside the United States. We are subject to a number of risks associated with international business activities that may increase our costs, lengthen our sales cycle and require significant management attention. These risks include: • increased expenses associated with sales and marketing, deploying services and maintaining our infrastructure in foreign countries; • competition from local content delivery service providers, many of which are very well positioned within their local markets; • challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements preventing us from operating our CDN or resulting in unanticipated costs and delays; • interpretations of laws or regulations that would subject us to regulatory supervision or, in the alternative, require us to exit a country, which could have a negative impact on the quality of our services or our results of operations; • longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • corporate and personal liability for violations of local laws and regulations; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; and • foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in countries outside the United States. 25 Table of Contents Internet-related and other laws relating to taxation issues, privacy and consumer protection and liability for content distributed over our network, could harm our business. Laws and regulations that apply to communications and commerce conducted over the Internet are becoming more prevalent, both in the United States and internationally, and may impose additional burdens on companies conducting business online or providing Internet-related services such as ours. Increased regulation could negatively affect our business directly, as well as the businesses of our customers, which could reduce their demand for our services. For example, tax authorities abroad may impose taxes on the Internet-related revenue we generate based on where our internationally deployed servers are located. In addition, domestic and international taxation laws are subject to change. Our services, or the businesses of our customers, may become subject to increased taxation, which could harm our financial results either directly or by forcing our customers to scale back their operations and use of our services in order to maintain their operations. In addition, the laws relating to the liability of private network operators for information carried on or disseminated through their networks are unsettled, both in the United States and abroad. Network operators have been sued in the past, sometimes successfully, based on the content of material disseminated through their networks. We may become subject to legal claims such as defamation, invasion of privacy and copyright infringement in connection with content stored on or distributed through our network. In addition, our reputation could suffer as a result of our perceived association with the type of content that some of our customers deliver. If we need to take costly measures to reduce our exposure to these risks, or are required to defend ourselves against such claims, our financial results could be negatively affected. Several other federal laws also could expose us to liability and impose significant additional costs on us. For example, the Digital Millennium Copyright Act has provisions that limit, but do not eliminate, our liability for the delivery of customer content that infringe copyrights or other rights, so long as we comply with the statutory requirements of the Act. In addition, the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act restricts the ability of online services to collect information from minors and the Protection of Children from Sexual Predators Act of 1998 requires online service providers to report evidence of violations of federal child pornography laws under certain circumstances. Compliance with these laws and regulations is complex and any failure on our part to comply with these regulations may subject us to additional liabilities. Privacy concerns could lead to legislative and other limitations on our ability to collect usage data from Internet users, including limitations on our use of cookie or conversion tag technology and user profiling, which is crucial to our ability to provide services to our customers. Our ability to conduct targeted advertising campaigns and compile data that we use to formulate campaign strategies for customers depends on the use of “cookies” and “conversion tags” to track Internet users and their online behavior, which allows us to measure an advertising campaign’s effectiveness and avoid repeatedly delivering the same ad to a particular user’s device. A cookie is a small file of information stored on a user’s computer that allows us to recognize that user’s browser when it serves advertisements. A conversion tag functions similarly to a banner advertisement, except that the conversion tag is not visible. Our conversion tags may be placed on specific pages of clients of customers’ or prospective customers’ websites. Government authorities inside the United States concerned with the privacy of Internet users have suggested limiting or eliminating the use of cookies, conversion tags or user profiling. Bills aimed at regulating the collection and use of personal data from Internet users are currently pending in U.S. Congress and many state legislatures. Attempts at such regulation may be drafted in such a way as to limit or prohibit the use of technology like cookies and conversion tags, thereby creating restrictions that could reduce our ability to use them. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Commerce have conducted hearings regarding user profiling, the collection of non-personally identifiable information and online privacy. Our foreign operations may also be adversely affected by regulatory action outside the United States. For example, the European Union has adopted a directive addressing data privacy that limits the collection, disclosure and use of information regarding European Internet users. In addition, the European Union has enacted an electronic communications directive that imposes certain restrictions on the use of cookies and conversion 26 Table of Contents tags and also places restrictions on the sending of unsolicited communications. Each European Union member country was required to enact legislation to comply with the provisions of the electronic communications directive by October 31, 2003 (though not all have done so). Germany has also enacted additional laws limiting the use of user profiling, and other countries, both in and out of the European Union, may impose similar limitations. Internet users may directly limit or eliminate the placement of cookies on their computers by using third-party software that blocks cookies, or by disabling or restricting the cookie functions of their Internet browser software. Internet browser software upgrades also may result in limitations on the use of cookies or conversion tags. Technologies like the Platform for Privacy Preferences (P3P) Project may limit collection of cookie and conversion tag information. Plaintiffs’ attorneys also have organized class action suits against companies related to the use of cookies and several companies, including companies in the Internet advertising industry, have had claims brought against them before the Federal Trade Commission regarding the collection and use of Internet user information. We may be subject to such suits in the future, which could limit or eliminate our ability to collect such information. If our ability to use cookies or conversion tags or engage in other user profiling were substantially restricted due to the foregoing, or for any other reason, we would have to generate and use other technology or methods that allow the gathering of user profile data in order to provide services to customers. This change in technology or methods could require significant reengineering time and resources, and may not be complete in time to avoid negative consequences to our business. In addition, alternative technology or methods might not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If the use of cookies and conversion tags are prohibited and we are not able to efficiently and cost effectively create new technology, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. In addition, any compromise of security that results in the release of Internet users’ and/or our customers’ data could seriously limit the adoption of our service offerings as well as harm our reputation and brand, expose us to liability and subject us to reporting obligations under various state laws, which could have an adverse effect on our business. The risk that these types of events could seriously harm our business is likely to increase as the amount of data stored for customers on our servers (including personal information) and the number of countries where we operate has been increasing, and we may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we are required to seek funding, such funding may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. We may need to obtain funding due to a number of factors beyond our control, including a shortfall in revenue, increased expenses, final adverse judgments in litigation matters, increased investment in capital equipment or the acquisition of significant businesses or technologies. We believe that our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities classified as current plus cash from operations will be sufficient to fund our operations and proposed capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. However, we may need or desire funding before such time. If we do need to obtain funding, it may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain sufficient funding, our business would be harmed. Even if we were able to find outside funding sources, we might be required to issue securities in a transaction that could be highly dilutive to our investors or we may be required to issue securities with greater rights than the securities we have outstanding today. We might also be required to take other actions that could lessen the value of our common stock, including borrowing money on terms that are not favorable to us. If we are unable to generate or raise capital that is sufficient to fund our operations, we may be required to curtail operations, reduce our capabilities or cease operations in certain jurisdictions or completely. Our business requires the continued development of effective business support systems to support our customer growth and related services. The growth of our business depends on our ability to continue to develop effective business support systems. This is a complicated undertaking requiring significant resources and expertise. Business support systems are needed for: • implementing customer orders for services; 27 Table of Contents • delivering these services; and • timely billing for these services. Because our business plan provides for continued growth in the number of customers that we serve and services offered, there is a need to continue to develop our business support systems on a schedule sufficient to meet proposed service rollout dates. The failure to continue to develop effective business support systems could harm our ability to implement our business plans and meet our financial goals and objectives. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause adverse, unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our operating results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of existing accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. For example, our adoption of ASC 718 (formerly FAS 123R) in 2006 increased the amount of stock-based compensation expense we recorded. This, in turn, has impacted our results of operations for the periods since this adoption and has made it more difficult to evaluate our recent financial results relative to prior periods. We have incurred, and will continue to incur significantly increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to compliance initiatives. As a public company, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. These expenses include increased accounting, legal and other professional fees, insurance premiums, investor relations costs, and costs associated with compensating our independent directors. In addition, the Frank-Dodd Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the Nasdaq Global Select Market, imposes additional requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. For example, the listing requirements of the Nasdaq Global Select Market require that we satisfy certain corporate governance requirements relating to independent directors, audit committees, distribution of annual and interim reports, stockholder meetings, stockholder approvals, solicitation of proxies, conflicts of interest, stockholder voting rights and codes of conduct. Our management and other personnel need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, these rules and regulations make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to identify and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. Failure to effectively expand our sales and marketing capabilities could harm our ability to increase our customer base and achieve broader market acceptance of our services. Increasing our customer base and achieving broader market acceptance of our services will depend to a significant extent on our ability to expand our sales and marketing operations. Historically, we have concentrated our sales force at our headquarters in Tempe, Arizona. However, we are also building a field sales force to augment our sales efforts and to bring our sales personnel closer to our current and potential customers. Developing such a field sales force has been and will continue to be expensive and we have limited knowledge in developing and operating a widely dispersed sales force. As a result, we may not be successful in developing an effective sales force, which could cause our results of operations to suffer. We believe that there is significant competition for both inside and direct sales personnel with the sales skills and technical knowledge that we require. Our ability to achieve significant growth in revenue in the future 28 Table of Contents will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training and retaining sufficient numbers of inside and direct sales personnel. We have expanded our sales and marketing personnel from a total of 13 at December 31, 2004 to 140 at December 31, 2009, to 226 at December 31, 2010. New hires require significant training and, in most cases, take a significant period of time before they achieve full productivity. Our recent hires and planned hires may not become as productive as we would like, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the future in the markets where we do business. Our business will be seriously harmed if these expansion efforts do not generate a corresponding significant increase in revenue. If the accounting estimates we make, and the assumptions on which we rely, in preparing our financial statements prove inaccurate, our actual results may be adversely affected. Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments about, among other things, taxes, revenue recognition, share-based compensation costs, contingent obligations and doubtful accounts. These estimates and judgments affect the reported amounts of our assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, the amounts of charges accrued by us, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances and at the time they are made. If our estimates or the assumptions underlying them are not correct, we may need to accrue additional charges or reduce the value of assets that could adversely affect our results of operations, investors may lose confidence in our ability to manage our business and our stock price could decline. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our limited operating history makes evaluating our business and future prospects difficult, and may increase the risk of your investment. Our Company has only been in existence since 2001. A significant amount of our growth, in terms of employees, operations and revenue, has occurred. For example, our revenue has grown from $5.0 million in 2003 to $65.2 million in 2006 to $183.3 million in 2010. As a consequence, we have a limited operating history which makes it difficult to evaluate our business and our future prospects. We have encountered, and will continue to encounter, risks and difficulties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries, such as the risks described in this report on Form 10-K. If we do not address these risks successfully, our business will be harmed. The trading price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile. The trading prices of our common stock and the securities of technology companies generally have been highly volatile. Factors affecting the trading price of our common stock will include: • variations in our operating results; • announcements of technological innovations, new services or service enhancements, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors; • commencement or resolution of, our involvement in and uncertainties arising from, litigation, particularly our current litigation with Akamai and MIT, and our Securities Litigation matter; • recruitment or departure of key personnel; • changes in the estimates of our operating results or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that elect to follow our common stock; • developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights; • the gain or loss of significant customers; 29 Table of Contents • market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers and the economy as a whole; and • adoption or modification of regulations, policies, procedures or programs applicable to our business. In addition, if the market for technology stocks or the stock market in general experiences loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, operating results or financial condition. The trading price of our common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry even if these events do not directly affect us. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue an adverse or misleading opinion or report, our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If any of the analysts who cover us issue an adverse or misleading opinion regarding our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Insiders have substantial control over us and will be able to influence corporate matters. As of March 9, 2011, our directors and executive officers and their affiliates beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 39% of our outstanding common stock, including approximately 27% beneficially owned by investment entities affiliated with Goldman, Sachs & Co. These stockholders are able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets. This concentration of ownership could limit other stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control over us. Future equity issuances or a sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Because we may need to raise additional capital in the future to continue to expand our business and our research and development activities, among other things, we may conduct additional equity offerings. If we or our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares issued upon the exercise of options and warrants) in the public market, the market price of our common stock could fall. A decline in the market price of our common stock could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Management has broad discretion as to the use of the proceeds from our recently completed underwritten public offering of our common stock, and we may not use the proceeds effectively. Our management has broad discretion in the application of the net proceeds from the recently completed underwritten public offering of our common stock and could spend the proceeds in ways that do not improve our results of operations or enhance the value of our common stock. Our failure to apply these funds effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, delay the development of our product candidates and cause the price of our common stock to decline. 30 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company and may affect the trading price of our common stock. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. These provisions: • establish that members of the board of directors may be removed only for cause upon the affirmative vote of stockholders owning a majority of our capital stock; • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; • limit who may call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; • provide for a board of directors with staggered terms; and • provide that the authorized number of directors may be changed only by a resolution of our board of directors. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which imposes certain restrictions relating to transactions with major stockholders, may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 