Item 1A. Risk Factors If any of the following risks actually occurs, Esmark’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed and the market price of our stock could be adversely affected. See the information under the caption “Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-looking Statements” in Item 1.—“Business”. Wheeling-Pittsburgh has sustained significant losses in the past and there can be no assurance that Esmark will achieve profitability on a consistent basis in the future. There can be no assurance that Esmark will be able to achieve profitability on a consistent basis in the future. Wheeling-Pittsburgh has sought protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code twice since 1985, most recently in November 2000. Wheeling-Pittsburgh emerged from its most recent Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization as a new reporting entity on August 1, 2003. Before and during this reorganization, Wheeling-Pittsburgh incurred substantial net losses. Wheeling-Pittsburgh reported a net loss of $158.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2007. In December 2006, James P. Bouchard became the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Wheeling-Pittsburgh, Craig T. Bouchard became the Vice Chairman and President of Wheeling-Pittsburgh and several other management changes were also made at Wheeling-Pittsburgh. Wheeling-Pittsburgh continued to report losses subsequent to these management changes. Wheeling-Pittsburgh’s management cannot assure that it will be able to improve its results of operations or obtain additional financing, if necessary. If Wheeling-Pittsburgh and ESSG cannot achieve profitability on a consistent basis, the liquidity of Esmark may be adversely affected which could effect the ability of Esmark to continue operations Any decrease in the availability, or increase in the cost, of raw materials and energy could materially increase the costs of Wheeling-Pittsburgh and adversely impact cash flow and liquidity. Wheeling-Pittsburgh’s primary steel operations depend heavily on various raw materials and energy resources, including iron ore, coal used in the coke plant joint venture, scrap, steel slabs, zinc, electricity, natural gas and certain other gases. The availability of raw materials and energy resources could decrease and their prices may be volatile as a result of, among other things, changes in overall supply and demand conditions and new laws or regulations. Any disruption in the supply of the raw materials or energy resources of Wheeling-Pittsburgh may impair, at least temporarily, the ability of Wheeling-Pittsburgh to manufacture some products, or require Wheeling-Pittsburgh to pay higher prices in order to obtain these raw materials from other sources. In the event that raw material and energy costs increase, Wheeling-Pittsburgh may not be able to pass these higher costs 21 Table of Contents on to customers in full or in part. Any increases in the prices for raw materials or energy resources may materially increase the costs of Wheeling-Pittsburgh, lower its earnings and adversely impact cash flow and liquidity. Wheeling-Pittsburgh relies on a limited number of suppliers for a substantial portion of raw material needs, such as iron ore and scrap, as well as metallurgical coal for its coke plant joint venture, all of which are required to meet certain technical specifications. Any failure of these suppliers to meet the needs of Wheeling-Pittsburgh for any reason could have an adverse effect on the financial results and operating performance of Esmark. A loss of ESSG primary suppliers, or inability to obtain sufficient amounts of necessary metal substrate on a timely basis, may lead to an inability to meet our customers’ needs thus resulting in reduced sales. If, for any reason, ESSG’s primary suppliers of prime, excess prime and non-prime steel should curtail or discontinue their delivery of such metal substrate in the quantities needed and at prices that are competitive, ESSG’s business could suffer. The number of available suppliers could be reduced by factors such as industry consolidation and bankruptcies affecting steel and metal producers. ESSG’s top 15 suppliers accounted for over 60% of ESSG’s 2007 purchases. ESSG could be significantly and adversely affected if delivery were disrupted from a major supplier. If ESSG were unable to obtain sufficient amounts of the necessary metals on a timely basis from its suppliers, it may not be able to obtain such metals from alternative sources at competitive prices to meet its delivery schedules, which could have a material adverse effect on Esmark’s sales and profitability. The costs that ESSG pays for metals fluctuate due to a number of factors beyond our control, and such fluctuations could adversely affect operating results, particularly if ESSG cannot pass on higher metal prices to customers. ESSG maintains substantial inventories of metal to accommodate the short lead times and delivery requirements of its customers. ESSG’s customers typically purchase products pursuant to purchase orders and typically do not enter into long-term purchase agreements or arrangements. Accordingly, ESSG purchases metal in quantities it believes to be appropriate to satisfy the anticipated needs of its customers based on information derived from customers, market conditions, industry research and historic usage. Commitments for metal purchases are generally at prevailing market prices in effect at the time orders are placed or at the time of shipment. During periods of rising prices for metal, ESSG may be negatively impacted by delays between the time of increases in the cost of metals to it and increases in the prices that ESSG charges for its products if ESSG is unable to pass these increased costs on to its customers immediately. In addition, when metal prices decline, customer demand for lower prices could result in lower sale prices for ESSG’s products and, as it uses existing inventory that it purchased at higher metal prices, lower margins. Consequently, during periods in which ESSG uses this existing inventory, the effects of changing metal prices could adversely affect its operating results. Because Wheeling-Pittsburgh is significantly leveraged, it may not be able to successfully run its business, service debt obligations or refinance indebtedness. Wheeling-Pittsburgh is significantly leveraged. As such, it may be difficult for Wheeling-Pittsburgh to successfully run its business and have access to borrowings for necessary capital expenditures. In addition, if Wheeling-Pittsburgh does not generate sufficient operating cash flow, it may not be able to meet its debt service obligations. As of December 31, 2007, Wheeling-Pittsburgh’s current assets totaled $434.8 million, and current liabilities totaled $722.2 million. As of December 31, 2007, the total indebtedness of Wheeling-Pittsburgh was $407.3 million. Based on total indebtedness of Wheeling-Pittsburgh as of December 31, 2007, Wheeling-Pittsburgh expects that total debt service obligations, including scheduled principal and interest payments, will approximate $196.5 million (assuming a blended interest rate of 7.5% per annum) in 2008 and that the debt service obligations of Wheeling-Pittsburgh related to variable interest rate debt will increase by $3.0 million on an annual basis for each 1.0% increase in interest rates. 22 Table of Contents Wheeling-Pittsburgh’s ability to meet ongoing debt service obligations will depend on the ability of Wheeling-Pittsburgh to successfully run the business, including the successful operation of its EAF and BOF, and a number of other factors, including factors beyond the control of Wheeling-Pittsburgh. Wheeling-Pittsburgh may not be able to generate sufficient operating cash flow to repay, when due or earlier if accelerated due to an event of default, the principal amounts outstanding under the primary credit facilities of Wheeling-Pittsburgh which have a final maturity as early as (i) fifteen days following the consummation of the proposed merger with Essar and September 30, 2008 in the case of the revolving credit facility and (ii) fifteen days following consummation of the proposed merger with Essar and June 1, 2009 in the case of the term loan. Wheeling-Pittsburgh expects that it will be required to refinance such amounts as they become due and payable; however, Wheeling-Pittsburgh may not be able to consummate such refinancing to repay the obligations or to secure a refinancing on terms satisfactory to Wheeling-Pittsburgh. If Wheeling-Pittsburgh is unable to refinance all or any significant portion of its indebtedness, Wheeling-Pittsburgh may be required to sell assets or equity interests in Wheeling-Pittsburgh or its joint ventures. However, Wheeling-Pittsburgh may not be able to sell assets or equity interests in an amount sufficient to repay the obligations of Wheeling-Pittsburgh or on terms satisfactory to Esmark. Wheeling-Pittsburgh’s leverage, together with the restrictions imposed by Wheeling-Pittsburgh’s credit agreements, may limit the ability of Esmark to obtain additional financing and to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise. In addition, this leverage increases Wheeling-Pittsburgh’s vulnerability to adverse general economic and steel industry conditions. Wheeling-Pittsburgh may not be able to comply with its financial covenants, which may result in a default under its credit agreements. Under the terms of Wheeling-Pittsburgh’s $225.0 million revolving credit agreement, as amended, Wheeling-Pittsburgh is required to (i) maintain a consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio of at least 1.0:1 (computed based on the four most recently completely quarters) or $50.0 million of borrowing availability at all times or (ii) maintain minimum borrowing availability of $70.0 million at all times, inclusive of the ability to access up to $60 million of excess collateral, if available, as additional borrowing availability. There are no financial covenants in the amended and restated term loan. Wheeling-Pittsburgh’s ability to comply with the financial covenant in the revolving credit facility will depend on its future financial performance, which will be subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors beyond the control of Wheeling-Pittsburgh. Wheeling-Pittsburgh’s failure to comply with the covenant would result in a default or an event of default, permitting the lenders to accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness under the revolving credit agreement or term loan and to foreclose upon any collateral securing the indebtedness. Wheeling-Pittsburgh has been able to obtain relief from such covenant in the past. At this time, however, there can be no assurance that Wheeling-Pittsburgh will be able to obtain such covenant relief in the future, if necessary. In the event that additional modifications or waivers are necessary under the revolving credit agreement or term loan, and additional modifications and waivers are not obtained by Wheeling-Pittsburgh, an event of default will occur. If the event of default results in an acceleration of the revolving credit facility or term loan of Wheeling-Pittsburgh, such event would also permit the acceleration of substantially all of the other indebtedness of Wheeling-Pittsburgh and ESSG pursuant to cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions. If the indebtedness under the revolving credit facility and the other debt instruments of Wheeling-Pittsburgh or ESSG were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that its assets would be sufficient to repay in full such indebtedness. On April 21, 2008, the holders of a purported greater than 25% of the principal amount of Wheeling-Pittsburgh’s Series A secured notes due 2011 provided Wheeling-Pittsburgh notice of their awareness of Wheeling-Pittsburgh’s non-delivery of financial information in violation of Section 4.3(a) of the Note Indenture. Wheeling-Pittsburgh has since provided the required financial information. 23 Table of Contents ESSG may not be able to comply with its financial covenants, which may result in a default under its credit agreements. On April 30, 2007, ESSG entered into a credit agreement to borrow up to $150.0 million through a revolving credit facility. The revolving credit facility provides for up to $25.0 million in letters of credit and is subject to a borrowing base of up to 85% of eligible accounts, as defined by the agreement, and up to 70% of the value of eligible inventory, as defined by the agreement. Borrowings are secured by substantially all of the assets of ESSG and its subsidiaries, including accounts receivables, inventories and stock of subsidiaries. ESSG’s subsidiaries are guarantors under the facility. This facility contains normal covenants and restrictions which increase once the availability under the facility is less than $5.0 million. Under the terms of the agreement, ESSG is not allowed (i) to permit its fixed charge coverage ratio calculated monthly on a building basis for 2008 and on a trailing twelve month basis thereafter, measured monthly, to be less than 1.75 to 1.00, or (ii) to permit aggregate borrowing availability under the agreement to fall below a specified minimum commencing at $5.0 million, which may increase by up to $10.0 million to $15.0 million in certain circumstances. ESSG’s ability to comply with these financial covenants will depend on its future financial performance, which will be subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors beyond the control of ESSG. ESSG’s failure to comply with these covenants would result in a default or an event of default, permitting the lenders to accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness under the credit agreement and to foreclose upon any collateral securing the indebtedness of ESSG. It is an event of default under the ESSG revolving credit facility if the merger agreement contemplated to be entered into with Essar Steel Holdings Limited shall not have been duly executed by each of the parties thereto by June 23, 2008 (or in certain circumstances up to 22 days after June 23, 2008). If the event of default results in an acceleration of the revolving credit facility or term loan of ESSG, such event would also permit the acceleration of substantially all of the other indebtedness of Wheeling-Pittsburgh and ESSG pursuant to cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions. If the indebtedness under the revolving credit facility and the other debt instruments of Wheeling-Pittsburgh and ESSG were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that its assets would be sufficient to repay in full such indebtedness. Restrictive covenants in debt instruments may limit both Wheeling-Pittsburgh’s and ESSG’s flexibility and ability to implement their business plans Credit agreements of both Wheeling-Pittsburgh and ESSG contain restrictive financial and operating covenants, including, but not limited to, provisions that limit their ability to make capital expenditures, incur additional indebtedness, create liens, make investments, sell assets and enter into transactions with affiliates. In addition, Wheeling-Pittsburgh’s and ESSG’s debt instruments may not provide them with sufficient flexibility to permit them to make all necessary capital expenditures and take other measures that it believes are necessary to run their businesses effectively and to achieve their business plan objectives. If Wheeling-Pittsburgh or ESSG are unable to make necessary capital expenditures as a result of these covenants, the competitive position of Wheeling-Pittsburgh or ESSG could be adversely affected which could ultimately affect their financial performance. The level of indebtedness and restrictions in the debt instruments of Wheeling-Pittsburgh, may limit the ability of Esmark to take certain actions, including paying any dividends and obtaining additional financing, in the future. Wheeling-Pittsburgh is substantially leveraged. As of December 31, 2007, Wheeling-Pittsburgh had total indebtedness of $407.3 million. The substantial amount of debt that Wheeling-Pittsburgh has and that Wheeling-Pittsburgh may incur in the future could have important consequences. For example, it could: • limit the ability of Esmark to obtain additional financing, if needed in the future, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisition or for other purposes; 24 Table of Contents • increase the vulnerability of Esmark to adverse economic, industry and business conditions; • place Esmark at a disadvantage compared to competitors who have less debt; • restrict the ability of Esmark to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions; • cause the interest expense of Esmark to increase if interest rates were to increase relative to the portion of indebtedness, if any, that is subject to a floating rate of interest; or • require Esmark to dedicate a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to make principal and interest payments on debt and, accordingly, reduce funds available for the funding of operations, future business opportunities or other purposes. The instruments governing the current indebtedness of Wheeling-Pittsburgh also contain a number of covenants and restrictions that limit Esmark’s permitted business activities. These restrictions limit Esmark’s ability to pay dividends, incur indebtedness and make capital contributions and other investments, among other things. Restrictions in ESSG’s credit agreement may limit the ability of ESSG to take certain actions, including paying any dividends and obtaining additional financing, in the future. The credit agreements governing the current indebtedness of ESSG contain a number of covenants that may significantly limit or prohibit ESSG’s ability to: • pay dividends; • borrow additional money; • make capital expenditures and other investments; and • merge, consolidate or dispose of assets. The instruments governing the current indebtedness of ESSG also contain a number of covenants and restrictions that limit Esmark’s permitted business activities. These restrictions limit Esmark’s ability to pay dividends, incur indebtedness and make capital contributions and other investments, among other things. Funds managed by Franklin Mutual Advisers, LLC own over 60% of our outstanding common stock and are in a position to control us. Funds managed by Franklin Mutual Advisers, LLC (the FMA Stockholders) own over 60% of our outstanding common stock and are in a position to control us. The FMA Stockholders are in a position to elect our entire board of directors without the vote of any other stockholder. In addition, the FMA Stockholders, without the vote of any other stockholder, could approve a merger or other business combination transaction. Also, the FMA Stockholders are in a position to block the completion of a merger or other business combination transaction proposed by a third party that other Esmark stockholders may favor, and third parties could be discouraged from seeking to acquire control of Esmark through a tender offer or otherwise. Esmark’s historical financial information is not comparable to our current financial information and results of operation because of our use of purchase accounting in connection with the business combination transaction completed in November 2007 between ESSG and Wheeling-Pittsburgh. It may be difficult for you to compare both our historical and future results to our results for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. For financial reporting purposes, ESSG was identified as the acquiring entity and Wheeling-Pittsburgh was identified as the acquired entity relative to the combination. As a result, the consolidated financial statements of Esmark include the accounts of ESSG on an historical basis and the accounts of Wheeling-Pittsburgh from the date of acquisition, November 27, 2007, through December 31, 2007. In 25 Table of Contents addition, the business combination transaction between ESSG and Wheeling-Pittsburgh was accounted for utilizing purchase accounting, which resulted in a new valuation for the assets and liabilities of Wheeling-Pittsburgh to their fair values as of November 27, 2007. Intense competition in the steel industry and substitute materials could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, and, ultimately, the liquidity and financial condition of the Company. Competition within the steel industry, both domestic and worldwide, is intense and is expected to remain so in the future. Esmark competes with domestic steel producers, mini-mills, steel processors, steel service centers and foreign importers. Many of Esmark’s competitors have superior financial resources or more favorable cost structures, and we may be at a competitive disadvantage. In addition, it is also possible that competitive pressures resulting from the industry trend toward consolidation could adversely affect Esmark’s growth and profit margins. Moreover, steel products may be replaced to a certain extent by other substitute materials, such as plastic, aluminum, graphite, composites, ceramics, glass, wood and concrete. Esmark’s competitors may be successful in capturing its market share, and Esmark may be required to reduce selling prices in order to compete. Reduced selling prices could adversely impact Esmark’s results of operations and, ultimately, its liquidity and financial condition. Increased imports from China or other countries could lower domestic steel prices and adversely affect Esmark’s profitability. Esmark sells almost exclusively in the U.S. market. The domestic steel market is affected by factors influencing worldwide supply and demand, with excess global production generally seeking the most lucrative markets. In particular, the balance of supply and productive capacity in China may result in increased imports to the U.S. market. Vertical integration may not be successful. The combination of ESSG and Wheeling-Pittsburgh brings together a steel service center with a steel manufacturing company. This business model has been and is currently successfully utilized in the European steel markets, but is not common in the U.S. There is no assurance that the model will be successful in the U.S. steel market. The integration of the businesses of ESSG and Wheeling-Pittsburgh may not be successful. Esmark believes that the combination of Wheeling-Pittsburgh and ESSG will strengthen Wheeling-Pittsburgh’s balance sheet, improve its supply chain and expand its customer base. Achievement of these expected benefits of the combination depends in part on the successful integration of the businesses of ESSG and Wheeling-Pittsburgh in a timely and efficient manner. Some of the challenges to successful integration of these businesses include: • Wheeling-Pittsburgh and ESSG are separate stand-alone entities in different areas of the steel business; • ESSG and Wheeling-Pittsburgh have been operated, until recently, under different managements and with different operating strategies; • ESSG and Wheeling-Pittsburgh have different employment benefit structures; and • ESSG and Wheeling-Pittsburgh have different histories. In addition, ESSG does not currently have a common information management system which is used by all of its subsidiaries and plans to implement such a system in connection with the integration of the businesses of ESSG and Wheeling-Pittsburgh. ESSG’s ability to manage inventory levels successfully depends on the efficient 26 Table of Contents operation of its information management systems to track inventory information at individual facilities, communicate customer information and aggregate sales and other information. A failure to implement new systems properly could negatively impact the operations and financial results of ESSG. If these challenges cannot be overcome, management’s ability to manage the business effectively and profitably could suffer. In addition, key employees could leave, and relationships with customers or suppliers could be disrupted in whole or in part. Moreover, the integration process itself may be costly and disruptive and may divert management’s attention from its normal operational responsibilities. As a result, failure to successfully integrate the businesses of ESSG and Wheeling-Pittsburgh on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on Esmark’s business, operating results and financial condition. Wheeling-Pittsburgh may be unsuccessful in increasing the production of its electric arc furnace (EAF), which would adversely affect its near-term and long-term financial performance. Esmark’s business plan depends, in part, on the successful operation of, and an increase in production from, Wheeling-Pittsburgh’s EAF. The inability to successfully manage the operation of the EAF and to increase production at the EAF could make it difficult to implement the Company’s long-term business strategy and could have an adverse effect on its near-term and long-term financial performance. Any decrease in the availability, or increase in the cost, of cold-rolled substrate could adversely affect Wheeling-Pittsburgh’s production or increase costs. With the announced idling of Wheeling-Pittsburgh’s Allenport, Pennsylvania facility and as a result of management’s intention to increase overall shipping volume by diverting cold-rolled products previously provided to WCC to hot-rolled products, Wheeling-Pittsburgh’s corrugating division will need to source cold-rolled substrate material on the open market. A decrease in the availability of such material and any increase in the cost of such material could have an adverse effect on the Esmark’s profitability, liquidity and financial condition. Wheeling-Pittsburgh has relied on a core group of significant customers for a substantial portion of its net sales, and a reduction in demand from, or an inability to pay by, this group could adversely affect the total revenue. Although Wheeling-Pittsburgh has a large number of customers, sales to two of its customers, the Wheeling-Nisshin and OCC joint ventures, accounted for approximately 14.8 % of net sales for the calendar year ended December 31, 2007, 18.5% of net sales for the calendar year ended December 31, 2006 and 22.0% of net sales for the calendar year ended December 31, 2005. Wheeling-Pittsburgh currently expects that 2008 sales to Wheeling-Nisshin will decrease significantly and be replaced by sales of hot-rolled products. Sales to the ten largest customers, including sales to Wheeling-Nisshin and OCC, accounted for 35.8% of net sales for the calendar year ended December 31, 2007, 38.6% of net sales for the calendar year ended December 31, 2006 and 40.3% of net sale for the calendar year ended December 31, 2005. Wheeling-Pittsburgh may continue to depend upon a core group of customers for a material percentage of net sales in the future. Wheeling-Pittsburgh’s significant customers may not order steel products from Wheeling-Pittsburgh in the future or may reduce or delay the amount of steel products ordered. Any reduction or delay in orders could negatively impact the revenues of Wheeling-Pittsburgh. If one or more of Wheeling-Pittsburgh’s significant customers were to become insolvent or otherwise were unable to pay for the steel products provided, the results of operations of Esmark would be adversely affected. Esmark may not be able to implement its business plan because it may be unable to fund the substantial ongoing capital and maintenance expenditures that the operations of Wheeling-Pittsburgh require. Wheeling-Pittsburgh’s operations are capital intensive. Wheeling-Pittsburgh requires capital for, among other purposes, acquiring new equipment, maintaining the condition of existing equipment and maintaining 27 Table of Contents compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Wheeling-Pittsburgh’s business plan provides that capital expenditures for the three-year period ending December 31, 2010 will aggregate approximately $159.3 million. Wheeling-Pittsburgh may not be able to fund its capital expenditures from operating cash flow and from the proceeds of borrowings available for capital expenditures under the combined credit facilities of Esmark. If Esmark is unable to fund its capital requirements, Wheeling-Pittsburgh may be unable to implement its business plan, and the financial performance of Wheeling-Pittsburgh and Esmark may be adversely impacted. Esmark services industries which are highly cyclical, and any downturn in its customers’ industries could reduce Esmark’s sales and profitability. Many of Esmark’s products are sold to industries that experience significant fluctuations in demand based on economic conditions, energy prices, seasonality, consumer demand and other factors beyond its control. These industries include commercial and residential construction and tubing. Any decrease in demand within one or more of these industries may be significant and may last for a considerable period of time. Any significant slowdown in one or more of these industries could have an adverse effect on the demand for metals, resulting in lower prices for Esmark’s products, which would reduce its profitability. Esmark may have difficulty increasing or maintaining its level of sales or profitability if it is not able to divert sales of its products to customers in other industries when one or more of its customers’ industries experience a decline. Esmark does not expect the cyclical nature of its industry to change. Operating results may fluctuate depending on the season. A portion of Esmark’s customers experience seasonal slowdowns. Esmark’s sales in the fourth quarter of each year traditionally have been and are expected to be lower than in other quarters because of a reduced number of shipping days, holiday or vacation closures and reduced construction activities on the part of some customers. Consequently, Esmark’s sales in each of the first three quarters of the year are usually expected to be higher than in the fourth quarter. As a result, analysts and investors may inaccurately estimate the effects of seasonality on Esmark’s results of operations in one or more future quarters and, consequently its operating results may fall below expectations. Esmark’s production costs may increase and Esmark may not be able to sustain sales and earnings if Esmark fails to maintain satisfactory labor relations. A majority of Wheeling-Pittsburgh hourly employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the USW that expires on September 1, 2008 as modified. Of Wheeling-Pittsburgh’s total employees, approximately 2,604 are unionized, 2,524 of which are members of the USW. Esmark has negotiated a modification of certain terms of the collective bargaining agreement between Wheeling-Pittsburgh and the USW. This modification includes: • provisions to supplement the existing agreement to extend it to USW-represented employees at specified distribution and processing facilities of Esmark; • a revised contribution to the Wheeling-Pittsburgh Retiree Benefits Plan Trust (the “VEBA Trust”) in an annual minimum guaranteed amount of $5.0 million, plus approximately 3.5% of Esmark’s earnings before interest and taxes; • a revised profit sharing formula providing for contributions in an amount equal to 5% of Esmark’s quarterly earnings before interest and taxes multiplied by a fraction determined by dividing the hours worked by employees covered under the existing collective bargaining agreement by the number of employees under the extended collective bargaining agreement including employees at specified distribution and processing facilities. The amounts payable would be capped at $4 per hour per 40-hour work week. The revised formula provides for adjustments to third and fourth fiscal quarter contributions in the event of losses in the first two fiscal quarters; 28 Table of Contents • provisions permitting more flexibility for USW organizing activities; and • a provision mandating that dividends and other payment in respect of Esmark’s stock may be made only if Esmark’s credit statistics are equal to or better than those of an average BBB rated company in the metals sector, using criteria published by S&P. The modified collective bargaining agreement between Wheeling-Pittsburgh and the USW expires on September 1, 2008. If a new agreement is not approved by the members of the USW, this could have an adverse effect on the business, financial condition and results of operations of Esmark. In addition, any potential strikes or work stoppages in the future, and the resulting adverse impact on Esmark’s relationships with customers, could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition or results of operations of Esmark. Also, other steel producers may have or may be able to negotiate labor agreements that provide them with a competitive advantage. In addition, many mini-mill producers and certain foreign competitors and producers of comparable products do not have unionized work forces. This may place Esmark at a competitive disadvantage. In addition, the USW has the unilateral right to veto any merger or other transaction that constitutes a change in control of Wheeling-Pittsburgh, as defined by the collective bargaining agreement, unless the party gaining such control enters into a new collective bargaining agreement with the USW as a part of the transaction. These rights of the USW could impact the ability of Esmark to complete future acquisitions or change-in-control transactions. Additionally, ESSG employs approximately 576 employees, of which approximately 31% are covered by collective bargaining agreements. ESSG believes that it has good relations with its employees, including those covered by collective bargaining agreements. Increases in the healthcare costs for active employees and future retirees of Wheeling-Pittsburgh may lower the earnings of Wheeling-Pittsburgh and negatively affect the competitive position of Esmark in the industry. Wheeling-Pittsburgh maintains defined benefit retiree healthcare plans covering all active union-represented employees upon their retirement; these benefits are designed as a Medicare carve-out for Medicare-eligible retirees. Wheeling-Pittsburgh also provides medical benefits for qualified retired salaried employees until they reach the age of 65. Healthcare benefits for the active employees of Wheeling-Pittsburgh and future eligible retirees will be provided through comprehensive hospital, surgical and major medical benefit provisions or through health maintenance organizations; both methods include various cost-sharing and cost-containment features. These medical benefits will be provided for the most part based on fixed levels of benefits and coverage amounts negotiated in labor contracts with the appropriate unions. Mini-mills, foreign competitors and many producers of steel products that compete with Wheeling-Pittsburgh typically provide lesser benefits to their employees and retirees, and this difference in cost could adversely impact the competitive position of Wheeling-Pittsburgh. If the costs under Wheeling-Pittsburgh’s benefit programs for active employees and future eligible retirees exceed projections, the business, financial condition and results of operations of Esmark could be adversely affected. A significant interruption or casualty loss at any of the Esmark’s facilities could increase production costs and reduce sales and earnings. Esmark’s steelmaking and processing facilities may experience interruptions or major accidents and may be subject to unplanned events such as explosions, fires, inclement weather, acts of God, terrorism, accidents and transportation interruptions. Any shutdown or interruption of a facility would reduce the production from that facility, which could substantially impair the business of Esmark. Interruptions in production capabilities will inevitably increase production costs and reduce the sales and earnings of Esmark. In addition to the revenue losses, longer-term business disruptions could result in a loss of customers. To the extent these events are not covered by insurance, revenues, margins and cash flows may be adversely impacted by events of this type. 29 Table of Contents Esmark may not be able to use existing net operating loss carryovers to reduce taxable income, which could adversely affect liquidity and cash flow. As the result of an “ownership changes” pursuant to Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), Esmark’s ability to utilize net operating loss carryovers generated by Wheeling-Pittsburgh to reduce taxable income in subsequent years will be subject to statutory limitations on an annual basis. Wheeling-Pittsburgh’s net operating loss carryover as of December 31, 2007 approximated $529.4 million. Esmark estimates that its ability to offset post-ownership change taxable income will be limited to approximately $12.8 million per year. Esmark believes that there are built-in gains inherent in the value of its assets that, when recognized, may increase this annual limitation during the five-year period from the date of the ownership changes. These annual limitations on its net operating loss carry forwards that can be used to offset post-ownership change taxable income could adversely affect Esmark’s liquidity and cash flow. Additionally, a subsequent ownership change could further limit Esmark’s ability to use its net operating losses to offset post-ownership change taxable income and could adversely affect Esmark’s liquidity and cash flow. Esmark has a substantial amount of intangible assets, including goodwill, which may require an impairment adjustment in the future which could have a significant negative effect on the profitability of Esmark. A substantial amount of intangible assets, including goodwill, has been recorded in connection with the combination of ESSG and Wheeling-Pittsburgh and in connection with previous acquisitions by ESSG. These intangible assets, including goodwill, are subject to assessments for impairments on a periodic basis. If an impairment is identified and an adjustment is required, it may have an adverse effect on the profitability of Esmark. Antidumping and other duties could be imposed on Esmark, its suppliers and its products. The imposition of an antidumping or other increased duty on any products that Esmark imports could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition. For example under United States law, an antidumping duty may be imposed on any imports if two conditions are met. First, the Department of Commerce must decide that the imports are being sold in the United States at less than fair value. Second, the International Trade Commission, the “ITC”, must determine that a United States industry is materially injured or threatened with material injury by reason of the imports. The ITC’s determination of injury involves a two-pronged inquiry: first, whether the industry is materially injured and second, whether the dumping, and not other factors, caused the injury. The ITC is required to analyze the volume of imports, the effect of imports on United States prices for like merchandise, and the effects the imports have on United States producers of like products, taking into account many factors, inducing lost sales, market share, profits, productivity, return on investment and utilization of production capacity. Esmark may not be able to retain or expand its customer base if the United States manufacturing industry continues to erode. The customer base of Esmark primarily includes customers in the United States, some of which are, or have considered, relocating production operations outside the United States or outsourcing particular functions outside the United States. Some customers have closed as they were unable to compete successfully with foreign competitors. Esmark’s facilities are located in the United States and, therefore, to the extent that Esmark’s customers relocate or move operations where we do not have a presence, Esmark could lose all or a portion of their business. Acquirers of manufacturing and industrial firms may have suppliers of choice that do not include Esmark, which could impact Esmark’s customer base and market share. Environmental compliance and remediation costs could decrease the net cash flow, reduce the results of operations and impair the financial condition of Esmark. Esmark’s business and ownership of real property are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These laws are constantly evolving and have become 30 Table of Contents increasingly stringent. The ultimate impact of complying with environmental laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable because regulations under some of these laws have not yet been promulgated or are undergoing revision. Esmark expects to incur substantial capital expenditures and other costs to comply with these environmental laws and regulations, particularly the Federal Clean Air Act and the Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and future developments under these or other laws could result in substantially increased capital, operating and compliance costs. Additionally, future decisions to terminate operations at any of Esmark’s facilities may result in facility closure and cleanup costs. In addition, if Esmark is unable to comply with environmental regulations, Esmark may incur fines or penalties or may be required to cease some operations. Esmark would be involved in a number of environmental remediation projects relating to facilities and operations, and may in the future become involved in more remediation projects. While Esmark would reserve for costs relating to such projects when the costs are probable and estimable, those reserves may need to be adjusted as new information becomes available, whether from third parties, new environmental laws or otherwise. Regulatory compliance for Esmark may be more difficult as a result of the fact that ESSG had been a private company. Before the combination with Wheeling-Pittsburgh, the stock of ESSG was not listed on any exchange, ESSG was not a reporting company under the Exchange Act and ESSG never filed a registration statement under the Securities Act. As a result, ESSG was not required to comply with various regulatory provisions that apply to companies which have securities registered under the federal securities laws. As a part of Esmark, ESSG is subject to the regulatory provisions applicable to public companies. Thus, compliance may cause added expense for Esmark, and could cause delay of the preparation and filing of reports with the SEC and in the processing of registration statements filed with the SEC by Esmark. Esmark’s independent public accounting firm identified a material weakness and a significant deficiency in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, which, if not properly remediated could result in misstatements in the financial statements in future periods. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. A significant deficiency is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal controls over financial reporting that is less severe than a material weakness, yet important enough to merit attention by those responsible for oversight of the company’s financial reporting. A deficiency in internal control over financial reporting exists when the design or operation of a control does not allow management or employees, in the normal course of performing their assigned functions, to prevent or detect misstatements on a timely basis. Material Weakness • Inadequate current financial accounting and reporting resources: The Company’s current financial accounting and reporting resources have not been adequate to ensure accurate financial accounting and reporting. A significant number of audit adjustments were detected and recorded by the Company during the 2007 audit. Comprehensive reviews of certain account reconciliations were not completed and the Company has encountered difficulties in the timely accumulation of data required for external financial reporting. Management agrees with the finding of its public accounting firm and is in the process of addressing this weakness. Significant Deficiency • Information Technology Automated Controls: A number of deficiencies exist in ESSG’s design and operating effectiveness of general computer controls which could impact and affect the reliable processing of financial information at certain ESSG computer control environments. Management agrees with the finding of its public accounting firm and is in the process of addressing this weakness. 31 Table of Contents However, if the actions, remedial policies and procedures Esmark implements are not sufficient to address the control findings, or if additional control findings or other conditions relating to internal controls are discovered in the future, Esmark may fail to meet its future reporting obligations, the financial statements may contain misstatements and operating results may be adversely affected. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of the periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of Esmark internal controls over financial reporting, which will be required when the SEC’s rules under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 become applicable to Esmark beginning with the filing of Esmark’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008. Esmark cannot guarantee that measures to remediate the existing control findings will be sufficient, nor can Esmark guarantee that additional control findings will not arise in the future due to a failure to implement and maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting. Internal control deficiencies could cause investors to lose confidence in the reported consolidated financial information or other reported financial information. The internal control over financial reporting of Esmark and its subsidiaries has not yet been evaluated in accordance with the provisions of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, and any deficiencies in ESSG’s internal controls or disclosure controls and procedures that Esmark may find would require Esmark to spend resources to correct those deficiencies and could adversely affect market confidence in Esmark’s reported consolidated financial information. Maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting at Esmark, including its subsidiaries, will be necessary for Esmark to produce reliable financial reports and is important in helping to prevent financial fraud. Because ESSG was a private company and Esmark is a newly formed public company, they have not been subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In addition, as a new public company, Esmark has not included in this annual report an assessment by management on the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting or the related report from its independent registered public accounting firm on that assessment. Esmark will continue to evaluate the strength of it’s and ESSG’s internal control over financial reporting. As an independent company, ESSG and its subsidiaries did not operate under a fully documented system for accounting and internal control over financial reporting and were not required to maintain the disclosure controls and procedures applicable to public companies. Esmark will need to confirm and document that control structure and may need to improve it. As a result of the material weakness and significant deficiency identified in Esmark’s and ESSG’s internal control over financial reporting, Esmark will be required to spend time and money to remedy those deficiencies. If Esmark is unable to correct the material weakness and significant deficiency identified by its independent public accounting firm in a timely manner, it may continue to conclude that Esmark’s disclosure controls and procedures are not effective or that these circumstances continue to constitute a material weakness in the internal control over financial reporting of Esmark. If Esmark were to reach such a conclusion, its management and independent registered public accounting firm would be unable to conclude in their reports that its internal control over financial reporting was effective. Investors could lose confidence in the reported consolidated financial information or other public disclosures as a result. The Company’s current revolving credit facilities are due and payable no later than September 30, 2008 and the Company has received a going concern opinion in the report of its independent registered public accounting firm. The Company’s current revolving credit facilities are due and payable no later than September 30, 2008 and its ability to refinance these obligations will be dependent on a number of factors including the Company’s ability to borrow funds from the same or alternative lenders in a difficult lending environment, the Company’s ability to forecast and generate cash flow from future operations and the Company’s ability to structure alternative transactions with third parties and if necessary, obtain proceeds from the disposition of assets, in the event the proposed transaction with Essar does not proceed . As a result, there is substantial doubt as to the ability of the Company to continue as a going concern. 32 Table of Contents The Company’s common stock is subject to potential delisting from The Nasdaq Stock Market as a result of its failure to timely file this Annual Report on Form 10-K with the SEC, and may be subject to similar delisting proceedings as a result of the failure to timely file the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2008. On April 24, 2008, the Company received a Nasdaq Staff Determination letter, dated April 17, 2008, indicating that, as a result of the Company’s failure to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company failed to comply with Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14) which requires the Company to make, on a timely basis, all filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Company received the letter for failing to timely file this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007. The Company requested and was granted a hearing before the hearing panel to review the Staff Determination. The Company expects to receive a similar Nasdaq Staff Determination letter for its failure to timely file its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2008. While the Company expects the notice of delisting would be withdrawn by Nasdaq based on the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and filing of the Quarterly Report on From 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2008, there can be no assurance, if a meeting of the hearing panel is held, that the hearing panel will grant the Company’s request for continued listing. If we are unable to continue to maintain our listing on The Nasdaq Stock Market, it may become more difficult for our stockholders to sell our stock in the public market, and the price of our common stock may be adversely affected due to the likelihood of decreased liquidity resulting from delisting. In addition, our ability to raise additional necessary capital through equity financing, and attract and retain personnel by means of equity compensation, would be greatly impaired. Furthermore, we would expect decreases in institutional and other investor demand, analyst interest, market making activity and information available concerning trading prices and volume, and fewer broker-dealers would be willing to execute trades with respect to our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 33 Table of Contents 