Item 1A. Risk factors We operate in a dynamic environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties. The following section describes some of the risks that may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations; these are not necessarily listed in terms of their importance or level of risk. 10 Table of Contents Risks relating to our business and industry: The continued deterioration of general U. S. and global economic conditions could adversely affect our sales and operating results. We are a global company with customers around the world. As widely reported, global financial markets have experienced extreme disruption, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, limited ability to raise capital in public and private financial markets, severely diminished liquidity, credit unavailability and company rating downgrades. These conditions have a negative impact on our prospects’ and customers’ ability to raise capital and operate their businesses. The implementation of our software products, which is often accompanied by third party hardware purchases and other capital commitments, involves significant capital expenditure by our customers. Customers may reduce or defer their spending on technology. In addition, the weak and uncertain U.S. and global economic conditions could impair our customers’ ability to pay for our products or services. Any of these factors could delay our revenue recognition or otherwise adversely impact our business, quarterly or annual operating results and financial condition. Periodic fluctuations in the U.S. Dollar and other currencies, corporate profits, lower spending, the availability of credit, the impact of conflicts throughout the world, terrorist acts, natural disasters, volatile energy costs, the outbreak of diseases and other geopolitical factors have had, and may continue to have, a negative impact on the U.S. and global economies. Our customers and prospects may experience consolidation or bankruptcies in their industries which may result in project delays or cancellations. We are unable to predict the strength or duration of current market conditions or effects of consolidation. Uncertainties in anticipated spending levels or further consolidation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant or prolonged economic downturn in industries in which we focus, may result in our customers or prospects reducing or postponing spending on the products we offer. There are a number of factors, other than our performance, that could affect the size, frequency and renewal rates of our customer contracts. For instance, if economic conditions weaken in any industry in which we focus, our customers or prospects may reduce or postpone their spending significantly which may, in turn, lower the demand for our products and negatively affect our revenue and profitability. As a way of dealing with a challenging economic environment, customers may change their purchasing strategy, including increased negotiation of price or deciding to license one product rather than multiple products. Customers could also terminate or delay their implementations or maintenance contracts. The loss of, or any significant decline in business from, one or more of our customers likely would lead to a significant decline in our revenue and operating margins, particularly if we are unable to make corresponding reductions in our expenses in the event of any such loss or decline. Moreover, a significant change in the liquidity or financial position of any of these customers could have a material adverse effect on the collectability of our accounts receivable, liquidity, customers’ ability to complete implementation and future operating results. A weakening economy and changing business conditions could result in substantial defaults or slowing of payments by our customers on our accounts receivable which could have a significant negative impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. A significant portion of our working capital consists of accounts receivable from customers. If customers responsible for a significant amount of accounts receivable were to become insolvent or otherwise unable to pay for products and services, or were to become unwilling or unable to make payments in a timely manner, our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity could be adversely affected. We focus exclusively on the pricing and revenue optimization software market, and if this market develops more slowly than we expect, our business will be harmed. We derive, and expect to continue to derive, all of our revenue from providing pricing and revenue optimization software products, implementation services and ongoing customer support. The pricing and revenue optimization software market is relatively new and still evolving, and it is uncertain whether this software will achieve and sustain high levels of demand and market acceptance. Our success will depend on the willingness of businesses in the manufacturing, distribution, services, hotel and cruise, and airline industries to implement pricing and revenue optimization software. 11 Table of Contents Some businesses may be reluctant or unwilling to implement pricing and revenue optimization software for a number of reasons, including failure to understand the potential returns of improving their pricing processes and lack of knowledge about the potential benefits that such software may provide. Even if businesses recognize the need for improved pricing processes, they may not select our pricing and revenue optimization software products because they previously have made investments in internally developed pricing and revenue optimization solutions. Some businesses may elect to improve their pricing processes through solutions obtained from their existing enterprise software providers, whose solutions are designed principally to address one or more functional areas other than pricing. These enterprise solutions may appeal to customers that wish to limit the number of software vendors on which they rely and the number of different types of solutions used to run their businesses. If businesses do not embrace the benefits of pricing and revenue optimization software, the pricing and revenue optimization software market may not continue to develop or may develop more slowly than we expect, either of which would significantly and adversely affect our revenue and operating results. Because the pricing and revenue optimization software market is developing and the manner of its development is difficult to predict, we may make errors in predicting and reacting to relevant business trends, which could harm our operating results. Any downturn in sales to our target markets of manufacturing, distribution, services, hotel and cruise, and airline would adversely affect our operating results. Our success is highly dependent upon our ability to sell our software products to customers in the manufacturing, distribution, services, hotel and cruise, and airline industries. If we are unable to market and sell our software products effectively to customers in these industries, we may not be able to grow our business. It is uncertain whether our software products will achieve and sustain the levels of demand and market acceptance that we anticipate. Such uncertainty is attributable to, among other factors, the following: • the possibility that it may be more difficult than we currently anticipate to implement our software products in our target industries; • the possibility that it may be more difficult than we currently anticipate to increase our customer base in our target industries; • the possibility that it may take more time to train our personnel in the implementation of our software products in our target industries; and • our limited experience implementing our software products in certain of our target industries. Our revenue growth has been derived principally from customers in the manufacturing, distribution, services and hotel and cruise industries, where our products have recently begun to achieve market acceptance. Our revenue growth is highly dependent upon continued growth of market acceptance in all of these industries, and there is no assurance our products will achieve or sustain widespread acceptance among these potential customers. Failure to expand market acceptance of our products in the manufacturing, distribution, services and hotel and cruise industries or to maintain sales in the airline industry would adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our software products require implementation projects that are subject to significant risks and delays, the materialization of which could negatively impact the effectiveness of our solutions, resulting in harm to our reputation, business and financial performance. The implementation of our software products can involve complex, large-scale projects that require substantial support operations, significant resources and reliance on certain factors that may not be under our control. For example, the success of our implementation projects is heavily dependent upon the quality of data used by our software products, the commitment of customers’ resources and personnel to the projects and the stability, functionality and scalability of the customer’s information technology infrastructure. If weaknesses or problems in infrastructure or data or our customers’ commitment and investment in personnel and resources exist, we may not be able to correct or compensate for such weaknesses. In addition, implementation of our software products can be highly complex and require substantial efforts and cooperation on the part of our customers and us. If we are unable to successfully manage the implementation of our software products such that those products do not meet customer needs or expectations, we may become involved in disputes with our customers and our business, reputation and financial performance may be significantly harmed. We recognize our license and implementation revenues as implementation services are performed. Any delays in an implementation project or changes in the scope or timing of an implementation project would delay or alter the corresponding revenue recognition and could adversely affect our operating results. If an implementation project for a large customer or a number of customers is substantially delayed or cancelled, our ability to recognize the associated revenue and our operating results would be adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents Competition from vendors of pricing solutions and enterprise applications as well as from companies internally developing their own solutions could adversely affect our ability to sell our software products and could result in pressure to price our software products in a manner that reduces our margins and harms our operating results. The pricing and revenue optimization software market is competitive, fragmented and rapidly evolving. Our software products compete with solutions developed internally by businesses as well as solutions offered by competitors. Our principal competition consists of: • pricing and revenue optimization software vendors, including a number of vendors that provide pricing and revenue optimization software for specific industries; and • large enterprise application providers that have developed offerings that include pricing and revenue optimization functionality. We expect additional competition from other established and emerging companies to the extent the pricing and revenue optimization software market continues to develop and expand. We also expect competition to increase as a result of the entrance of new competitors in the market and industry consolidation, including through a merger or partnership of two or more of our competitors or the acquisition of a competitor by a larger company. A number of our current and potential competitors have larger installed bases of users, longer operating histories and greater name recognition than we have. In addition, many of these companies have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, service and other resources than we have. As a result, these companies may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer demands and to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. Competition could seriously impede our ability to sell additional software products and related services on terms favorable to us. We do not know how our competition will set prices for their products during a period of economic downturn. Businesses may continue to enhance their internally developed solutions, rather than investing in commercially-available solutions such as ours. Our current and potential competitors may develop and market new technologies that render our existing or future products obsolete, unmarketable or less competitive. In addition, if these competitors develop products with similar or superior functionality to our products, or if they offer products with similar functionality at a substantially lower price than our products, we may need to decrease the prices for our products in order to remain competitive. If we are unable to maintain our current product, services and maintenance pricing due to competitive pressures, our margins will be reduced and our operating results will be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures will not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We are subject to a lengthy sales cycle and delays or failures to complete sales may harm our business and cause our revenue and operating income to decline in the future. Our sales cycle may take several months to over a year. To sell our products successfully and obtain an executed contract, we generally have to educate our potential customers about the use and benefits of our products, which can require significant time, expense and capital without the ability to realize any revenue. During this sales cycle, we may expend substantial resources with no assurance that a sale will ultimately result. The length of a customer’s sales cycle depends on a number of factors, many of which we may not be able to control. These factors include the customer’s product and technical requirements and the level of competition we face for that customer’s business. Any unexpected lengthening of the sales cycle would negatively affect the timing of our revenue, and hinder our revenue growth. Furthermore, a delay in our ability to obtain a signed agreement or other persuasive evidence of an arrangement or to complete certain contract requirements in a particular quarter could reduce our revenue in that quarter. Overall, any significant failure to generate revenue or delays in recognizing revenue after incurring costs related to our sales or services process could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Our revenue recognition is primarily based upon our ability to estimate the efforts required to complete our implementation projects, which may be difficult to estimate. We generally recognize revenue from our software licenses and implementation services over the period during which such services are performed using the percentage-of-completion method. The length of this period depends on the number of licensed software products and the scope and complexity of the customer’s deployment requirements. Under the percentage-of-completion method, the revenue we recognize during a reporting period is based on the percentage of man-days incurred during the reporting period as compared to the estimated total man-days required to implement our software products. If we are unable to accurately estimate the overall total man-days required to implement our software products, such inaccuracies could have a material effect on the timing of our revenue. Any change in the timing of revenue recognition as a result of inaccurate estimates could adversely impact our quarterly or annual operating results. Failure to sustain our historical maintenance and support renewal rates and pricing would adversely affect our operating result. Maintenance and support agreements are typically for a term of one to two years. Historically, maintenance and support revenue has represented a significant portion of our total revenue, including approximately 36%, 29% and 30% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. If our customers choose not to renew their maintenance and support agreements with us on favorable terms or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. We might not generate increased business from our current customers, which could limit our revenue in the future. We sell our software products to both new customers and existing customers. Many of our existing customers initially purchase our software products for a specific business segment or a specific geographic location within their organization and later purchase additional software products for the same or other business segments and geographic locations within their organization. These customers might not choose to make additional purchases of our software products or to expand their existing software products to other business segments. In addition, as we deploy new applications and features for our software products or introduce new software products, our current customers could choose not to purchase these new offerings. If we fail to generate additional business from our existing customers, our revenue could grow at a slower rate or even decrease. If our cost estimates for fixed-fee arrangements do not accurately anticipate the cost and complexity of implementing our software products, our profitability could be reduced and we could experience losses on these arrangements. The majority of our license and implementation arrangements are priced on a fixed-fee basis. If we underestimate the amount of effort required to implement our software products, our profitability could be reduced. Moreover, if the actual costs of completing the implementation exceed the agreed upon fixed price, we would incur a loss on the arrangement. Our revenue recognition policy may cause any decreases in sales not to be reflected in our revenue immediately. The period over which we recognize license and implementation revenue for an implementation depends on the number of licensed software products and the scope and complexity of the customer’s deployment requirements which may range from six months to several years. As a result, a significant majority of our revenue is recognized on arrangements that were executed in previous periods. Any shortfall in new sales of our software products may not be reflected in our revenue for several quarters, and as such the adverse impact on our business may not be readily apparent. 14 Table of Contents If we fail to develop or acquire new pricing and revenue optimization functionality to enhance our existing software products, we will not be able to grow our business and it could be harmed. The pricing and revenue optimization software market is characterized by: • rapid technological developments; • newly emerging and changing customer requirements; and • frequent product introductions, updates and functional enhancements. We must introduce new pricing and revenue optimization functionality that enhances our existing software products in order to meet our business plan, maintain or improve our competitive position, keep pace with technological developments, satisfy increasing customer requirements and increase awareness of pricing and revenue optimization software generally and of our software products in particular. Any new functionality we develop may not be introduced in a timely manner and may not achieve market acceptance sufficient to generate material revenue. Furthermore, we believe our competitors are heavily investing in research and development, and may develop and market new solutions that will compete with, and may reduce the demand for, our software products. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in developing or otherwise acquiring, marketing and licensing new functionality, or delivering updates and upgrades that meet changing industry standards and customer demands. In addition, we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, marketing and licensing of such functionality. If we are unable to develop or acquire new functionality, enhance our existing software products or adapt to changing industry requirements to meet market demand, we may not be able to grow our business and our revenue and operating results would be adversely affected. In addition, because our software products are intended to operate on a variety of technology platforms, we must continue to modify and enhance our software products to keep pace with changes in these platforms. Any inability of our software products to operate effectively with existing or future platforms could reduce the demand for our software products, result in customer dissatisfaction and limit our revenue. Defects or errors in our software products could harm our reputation, impair our ability to sell our products and result in significant costs to us. Our pricing and revenue optimization software products are complex and may contain undetected defects or errors. Several of our products have recently been developed and may therefore be more likely to contain undetected defects or errors. In addition, we frequently develop enhancements to our software products that may contain defects. We have not suffered significant harm from any defects or errors to date, but we have found defects in our software products from time to time. We may discover additional defects in the future, and such defects could be material. We may not be able to detect and correct defects or errors before the final implementation of our software products. Consequently, we or our customers may discover defects or errors after our software products have been implemented. We have in the past issued, and may in the future need to issue, corrective releases of our products to correct defects or errors. The occurrence of any defects or errors could result in: • lost or delayed market acceptance and sales of our software products; • delays in payment to us by customers; • injury to our reputation; • diversion of our resources; • legal claims, including product liability claims, against us; • increased maintenance and support expenses; and • increased insurance costs. Our license agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our liability for defects and errors in our software products and damages relating to such defects and errors, but these provisions may not be enforced by a court or otherwise effectively protect us from legal claims. Our liability insurance may not be adequate to cover all of the costs resulting from these legal claims. Moreover, we cannot assure you that our current 15 Table of Contents liability insurance coverage will continue to be available on acceptable terms. In addition, the insurer may deny coverage on any future claim. The successful assertion against us of one or more large claims that exceeds available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Furthermore, even if we prevail in any litigation, we are likely to incur substantial costs and our management’s attention will be diverted from our operations. If we fail to retain our key personnel or if we fail to attract additional qualified personnel, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our future success depends upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key sales, development, science and professional services staff. The loss of the services of our executive officers and other key personnel would harm our operations. In addition, our future success will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain a sufficient number of highly qualified personnel, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. In particular, given the highly sophisticated pricing science included in our products, the pool of scientists and software developers qualified to work on our products is limited. In addition, the implementation of our software products requires highly-qualified personnel, and hiring and retaining such personnel to support our growth may be challenging. Competition for such qualified personnel is intense, and we compete for these individuals with other companies that have greater financial, technical, marketing, service and other resources than we do. If we fail to retain our key personnel and attract new personnel, our operating results could be adversely affected. Intellectual property litigation and infringement claims may cause us to incur significant expense or prevent us from selling our software products. Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, trademarks and copyrights, and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. A third party may assert that our technology violates its intellectual property rights, or we may become the subject of a material intellectual property dispute. Pricing and revenue optimization solutions may become increasingly subject to infringement claims as the number of commercially available pricing and revenue optimization solutions increases and the functionality of these solutions overlaps. Future litigation may involve patent holding companies or other adverse patent owners who have no relevant product revenue and against whom our own potential patents may therefore provide little or no deterrence. Regardless of the merit of any particular claim that our technology violates the intellectual property rights of others, responding to such claims may require us to: • incur substantial expenses and expend significant management efforts to defend such claims; • pay damages, potentially including treble damages, if we are found to have willfully infringed such parties’ patents or copyrights; • cease making, licensing or using products that are alleged to incorporate the intellectual property of others; • distract management and other key personnel from performing their duties for us; • enter into potentially unfavorable royalty or license agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies; and • expend additional development resources to redesign our products. Any license required as a result of litigation under any patent may not be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, some licenses may be nonexclusive, and therefore our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to design around a patent, we may be unable to effectively develop or market our products, which could limit our ability to generate revenue or maintain profitability. Contract terms generally obligate us to indemnify our customers for their use of the intellectual property associated with our current product suite or for other third-party products that are incorporated into our solutions and that infringe the intellectual property rights of others. If we are unable to resolve our legal obligations by settling or paying an infringement claim or a related indemnification claim as described above, we may be required to compensate our customers under the contractual arrangement with the customers. Some of our intellectual property indemnification obligations are contractually capped at a very high amount or not capped at all. 16 Table of Contents If we fail to protect our proprietary rights and intellectual property adequately, our business and prospects may be harmed. Our success will depend in part on our ability to protect our proprietary methodologies and intellectual property. We rely upon a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality policies, nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements, and patent, copyright and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot, however, be sure that steps we take to protect our proprietary rights will prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property, or the development and marketing of similar and competing products and services by third parties. We rely, in some circumstances, on trade secrets to protect our technology. Trade secrets, however, are difficult to protect. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors, and in such cases, we could not assert such trade secret rights against such parties. We seek to protect our proprietary technology and processes, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, customers, scientific advisors and other contractors. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. To the extent that our employees, consultants or contractors use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. As of the date of this filing, we have 3 issued U.S. patents and 6 pending U.S. patent applications. We have not pursued patent protection in any foreign countries. Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents. The patent position of technology-oriented companies, including ours, is generally uncertain and involves complex legal and factual considerations. The standards that the United States Patent and Trademark Office use to grant patents are not always applied predictably or uniformly and can change. Accordingly, we do not know the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights or the breadth of claims allowed in any patents that may be issued to us or to others. If any of our patent applications issue, they may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products, or provide us with any competitive advantage. Moreover, once they have been issued, our patents and any patent for which we have licensed or may license rights may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented. If our patents are invalidated or otherwise limited, other companies will be better able to develop products that compete with ours, which could adversely affect our competitive business position, business prospects and financial condition. Patent applications in the U.S. are typically not published until, at least, 18 months after filing or in some cases not at all, and publications of discoveries in industry-related literature lag behind actual discoveries. We cannot be certain that we were the first to make the inventions claimed in our pending patent applications or that we were the first to file for patent protection. Additionally, the process of obtaining patent protection is expensive and time-consuming, and we may not be able to prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. As a result, we may not be able to obtain adequate patent protection. In addition, despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may be able to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. The issuance of a patent does not guarantee that it is valid or enforceable. As such, even if we obtain patents, they may not be valid or enforceable against third parties. In addition, the issuance of a patent does not guarantee that we have a right to practice the patented invention. Third parties may have blocking patents that could be used to prevent us from marketing or practicing our potentially patented products. As a result, we may be required to obtain licenses under these third-party patents. If licenses are not available to us on acceptable terms, or at all, we will not be able to make and sell our software products and competitors would be more easily able to compete with us. We use open source software in our products that may subject our software products to general release or require us to re-engineer our products, which may cause harm to our business. We use open source software in our products and may use more open source software in the future. From time to time, there have been claims challenging the ownership of open source software against companies that incorporate open source software into their products. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. Some open source licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use. If we combine our proprietary software products with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain of the open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software products. In addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on origin of the software. In addition, open source license 17 Table of Contents terms may be ambiguous and many of the risks associated with usage of open source cannot be eliminated, and could, if not properly addressed, negatively affect our business. If we were found to have inappropriately used open source software, we may be required to re-engineer our products, to discontinue the sale of our products in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis or take other remedial action that may divert resources away from our development efforts, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We utilize third-party software that we incorporate into our software products, and impaired relations with these third parties, defects in third-party software or a third party’s inability or failure to enhance their software over time could adversely affect our operating performance and financial condition. We incorporate and include third-party software into our software products. If our relations with any of these third parties are impaired, or if we are unable to obtain or develop a replacement for the software, our business could be harmed. The operation of our products could be impaired if errors occur in the third-party software that we utilize. It may be more difficult for us to correct any defects in third-party software because the software is not within our control. Accordingly, our business could be adversely affected in the event of any errors in this software. There can be no assurance that these third parties will continue to invest the appropriate levels of resources in their products and services to maintain and enhance the capabilities of their software. New accounting standards or interpretations of existing accounting standards, including those related to revenue recognition, could adversely affect our operating results. GAAP in the United States are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in principles or interpretations, in particular those related to revenue recognition, could have an adverse effect on our reported financial results. Our international sales subject us to risks that may adversely affect our operating results. Over the last several years, we derived a significant portion of our revenue from customers outside the United States. For the year ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, approximately 59%, 54% and 63% of our total revenue, respectively, was derived from outside the United States. We may not be able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products. Managing overseas growth could require significant resources and management attention and may subject us to new or larger levels of regulatory, economic, foreign currency exchange, tax and political risks. Among the risks we believe are most likely to affect us with respect to our international sales and operations are: • economic conditions in various parts of the world; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • less protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • new and different sources of competition; • multiple, conflicting and changing tax laws and regulations that may affect both our international and domestic tax liabilities and result in increased complexity and costs; • if we were to establish international offices, the difficulty of managing and staffing such international offices and the increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; • difficulties in enforcing contracts and collecting accounts receivable, especially in developing countries; • if more contracts become denominated in local currency, fluctuations in exchange rates; and • tariffs and trade barriers, import/export controls and other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell or develop our products in certain foreign markets. If we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our international operations and reduce our international sales, adversely affecting our business, operating results and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents We may enter into acquisitions that may be difficult to integrate, fail to achieve our strategic objectives, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or divert management attention. We currently do not have any agreements with respect to any acquisitions, but in the future we may pursue acquisitions of businesses, technologies and products that we intend to complement our existing business, products and technologies. We cannot assure you that any acquisition we make in the future will provide us with the benefits we anticipated in entering into the transaction. Acquisitions are typically accompanied by a number of risks, including: • difficulties in integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired companies; • difficulties in maintaining acceptable standards, controls, procedures and policies; • potential disruption of ongoing business and distraction of management; • inability to maintain relationships with customers of the acquired business; • impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of any integration of new management and other personnel; • difficulties in incorporating acquired technology and rights into our products and services; • unexpected expenses resulting from the acquisition; and • potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses. In addition, acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt, restructuring charges and write-offs. Acquisitions may also result in goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to impairment tests, which could result in future impairment charges. Furthermore, if we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. To the extent we finance future acquisitions with debt; such debt could include financial or operational covenants that restrict our business operations. We may enter into negotiations for acquisitions that are not ultimately consummated. Those negotiations could result in diversion of management time and significant out-of-pocket costs. If we fail to evaluate and execute acquisitions successfully, we may not be able to achieve our anticipated level of growth and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Our operations might be affected by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event in Houston, Texas. Our headquarters are located in Houston, Texas, from which we base our operations. Although we have contingency plans in effect for natural disasters or other catastrophic events, these events, including terrorist attacks and natural disasters such as hurricanes, could disrupt our operations. Even though we carry business interruption insurance and typically have provisions in our contracts that protect us in certain events, we might suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available under our insurance policies or for which we do not have coverage. For example, even a temporary disruption to our business operations may create a negative perception in the marketplace. Any natural disaster or catastrophic event affecting us could have a significant negative impact on our operations. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited, and our failure to raise capital when needed could prevent us from executing our strategy. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents and our cash flow from future operating activities will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the foreseeable future. The timing and amount of our working capital and capital expenditure requirements may vary significantly depending on numerous factors, including the other risk factors described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, we may require additional financing to fund the purchase price of future acquisitions. Additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. Any additional capital raised through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities may dilute your percentage ownership of our common stock. Furthermore, any new debt or equity securities we 19 Table of Contents issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to our common stock. Capital raised through debt financings could require us to make periodic interest payments and could impose potentially restrictive covenants on the conduct of our business. We incur significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. SEC and New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) rules and regulations impose heightened requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. We may also need to hire additional finance and administrative personnel to support our compliance requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations increase our legal and financial costs and make some activities more time-consuming. In addition, we are required to maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, we are required to perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on, the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. Our compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. We may need to hire additional accounting and financial staff or a third party firm with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge. If we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the NYSE, SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. Risks relating to ownership of our common stock: Market volatility may affect our stock price and the value of your investment. The market price for our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be volatile, in part because our shares have been traded publicly since June 2007. Volatility could make it difficult to trade shares of our common stock at predictable prices or times. Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to be volatile, including the following: • variations in our quarterly or annual operating results; • decreases in market valuations of comparable companies; • fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes; • decreases in financial estimates by equity research analysts; • announcements by our competitors of significant contracts, new products or product enhancements, acquisitions, distribution partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • departure of key personnel; • changes in governmental regulations and standards affecting the software industry and our products; • sales of common stock or other securities by us in the future; • damages, settlements, legal fees and other costs related to litigation, claims and other contingencies; • deterioration of the general U. S. and global economic condition; and • other risks described elsewhere in this section. 20 Table of Contents In the past, securities class action litigation often has been initiated against a company following a period of volatility in the market price of the company’s securities. If class action litigation is initiated against us, we will incur substantial costs and our management’s attention will be diverted from our operations. All of these factors could cause the market price of our stock to decline, and you may lose some or all of your investment. Shares of our common stock are relatively illiquid Our common stock is thinly traded and we have a relatively small public float. Our common stock may be less liquid than the stock of companies with a broader public ownership. In addition, trading of a large volume of our common stock may also have a significant impact on its trading price. If equity research analysts cease to publish research or reports about us or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. The price of our stock could decline if one or more equity research analysts downgrade our stock or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about our business. Anti-takeover provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Our Certificate of Incorporation and by-laws and Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that might enable our management to resist a takeover of our company. These provisions include the following: • the division of our board of directors into three classes to be elected on a staggered basis, one class each year; • a prohibition on actions by written consent of our stockholders; • the elimination of the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders; • a requirement that stockholders provide advance notice of any stockholder nominations of directors or any proposal of new business to be considered at any meeting of stockholders; • a requirement that a supermajority vote be obtained to amend or repeal certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation; and • the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which limits the ability of stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock to merge or combine with us. Although we believe these provisions collectively provide for an opportunity to obtain higher bids by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if an offer were considered beneficial by some stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We do not currently anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently anticipate that we will retain all of our available cash, if any, for use as working capital and for other general corporate purposes. Any payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon, among other things, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends and other considerations that the board of directors deems relevant. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. 21 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved staff comments None. 