Item 1A. Risk Factors. In analyzing whether to make or to continue an investment in our securities, investors should consider, among other factors, the following risk factors. There are increased risks involved with commercial real estate and construction lending activities. Our lending activities include loans secured by commercial real estate and multi-family residential mortgage loans. In addition, we originate loans for the construction of residential and commercial use properties. We have increased our emphasis on originating commercial and multi-family real estate loans and construction loans in recent years, and such loans have increased as a proportion of our loan portfolio from 27.2% at December 31, 2004 to 42.8% at December 31, 2008. Commercial real estate, multi-family residential and construction lending generally is considered to involve a higher degree of risk than single-family residential lending due to a variety of factors, including generally larger loan balances, the dependency on successful completion or operation of the project for repayment, the difficulties in estimating construction costs and loan terms which often do not require full amortization of the loan over its term and, instead, provide for a balloon payment at stated maturity. As a result of the larger loan balances typically involved in these loans, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. As of December 31, 2008, our 10 largest commercial real estate, multi-family residential and land loans had an aggregate outstanding balance of $17.6 million, or 36.2% of total commercial real estate, multi-family residential and land loans and 15.5% of our total loan portfolio at such date. In addition, our relatively recent emphasis on increasing our originations of commercial real estate and multi-family residential loans means that our portfolio of these loans is significantly weighted 29 Table of Contents with loans which are not well seasoned, and thus, are generally perceived to be more susceptible to adverse economic conditions than older loans. Construction loans generally have a higher risk of loss than single-family residential mortgage loans due primarily to the critical nature of the initial estimates of a property’s value upon completion of construction compared to the estimated costs, including interest, of construction as well as other assumptions. If the estimates upon which construction loans are made prove to be inaccurate, we may be confronted with projects that, upon completion, have values which are below the loan amounts. As of December 31, 2008, we had a $1.0 million participation interest in a $170.0 million construction loan for a mixed-use development located in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. As such date, the loan was 50 days past due and completion of the project was delayed. See “Asset Quality—Delinquent Loans”. We may not succeed in our plan to grow which could reduce future profitability. We intend to grow our branch system by opening additional offices. In addition, we may seek to either acquire other financial institutions and/or branch offices. Bank of New Orleans has never acquired another banking institution and we cannot assure you that we will be able to grow through acquisitions or, if we do, successfully integrate other financial institutions or branch offices. Our ability to successfully acquire other institutions depends on our ability to identify, acquire and integrate such institutions into our franchise. Currently, we have no agreements or understandings with anyone regarding an acquisition. Our ability to grow organically by establishing new de novo branch offices depends on whether we can identify advantageous locations and generate new deposits and loans from those locations that will create an acceptable level of net income. We intend to focus our growth strategy in contiguous and other surrounding markets. However, we have never operated a branch office outside metropolitan New Orleans, and no assurance can be given that we can successfully implement our business plan in a different market area. There will be additional costs associated with any expansion of our branch network, and no assurance can be given that any new offices will be profitable. There also is a risk that, as we geographically expand our lending area, we may not be as successful in assessing the credit risks which are inherent in different markets. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in our plan to grow. The loss of our President and Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer could hurt our operations. We rely heavily on our President and Chief Executive Officer, Lawrence J. LeBon, III, and our Chief Financial Officer, John LeBlanc. The loss of either of these executive officers could have an adverse effect on us. Mr. LeBon is central to virtually all aspects of our business operations and management. Mr. LeBlanc is critical to our financial reporting function, and he also works closely with Mr. LeBon on virtually all other aspects of our operations. In addition, as a small community bank, we have fewer management-level personnel who are in position to succeed and assume the responsibilities of either Messrs. LeBon or LeBlanc. However, we have entered into three-year employment agreements with Messrs. LeBon and LeBlanc. We do not maintain key man life insurance on either Mr. LeBon or Mr. LeBlanc. Our business is geographically concentrated in southern Louisiana, which makes us vulnerable to downturns in the local economy. Most of our loans are to individuals and businesses located generally in southern Louisiana and, more particularly, metropolitan New Orleans. Regional economic conditions affect the demand for our products and services as well as the ability of our customers to repay loans. The concentration of our business operations in southern Louisiana makes us vulnerable to downturns in the local economy. Declines in local real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for the loans we make. The regional economic outlook remains uncertain after Hurricane Katrina and no assurance can be given that, given the geographic concentration of our business, we will not suffer from future adverse developments in the region. The region is susceptible to hurricanes and tropical storms. Any new hurricanes or storms could severely test the infrastructure of the markets we operate in, negatively affect the local economy or disrupt our operations, which would have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 30 Table of Contents Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The operations of financial institutions such as us are dependent to a large extent on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities and the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. Changes in the general level of interest rates can affect our net interest income by affecting the difference between the weighted average yield earned on our interest-earning assets and the weighted average rate paid on our interest-bearing liabilities, or interest rate spread, and the average life of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Our net interest spread was 2.50% for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to 2.56% for the year ended December 31, 2007. Changes in interest rates also can affect our ability to originate loans; the value of our interest-earning assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets; our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; and the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Our results of operations are significantly dependent on economic conditions and related uncertainties. The operations of savings associations are affected, directly and indirectly, by domestic and international economic and political conditions and by governmental monetary and fiscal policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, volatile interest rates, real estate values, government monetary policy, international conflicts, the actions of terrorists and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in interest rates, in particular, could adversely affect our net interest income and have a number of other adverse effects on our operations. Adverse economic conditions also could result in an increase in loan delinquencies, foreclosures and nonperforming assets and a decrease in the value of the property or other collateral which secures our loans, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations. We are particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions and related uncertainties in the metropolitan New Orleans area because we derive the vast majority of our loans, deposits and other business from this area. Accordingly, we remain subject to the risks associated with prolonged declines in our local economy. Our allowance for losses on loans may not be adequate to cover probable losses. We have established an allowance for loan losses which we believe is adequate to offset probable losses on our existing loans. There can be no assurance that any future declines in real estate market conditions, general economic conditions or changes in regulatory policies will not require us to increase our allowance for loan losses, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to extensive regulation which could adversely affect our business and operations. We are subject to extensive federal governmental supervision and regulation, which are intended primarily for the protection of depositors. In addition, we are subject to changes in federal and state laws, as well as changes in regulations, governmental policies and accounting principles. The effects of any such potential changes cannot be predicted but could adversely affect the business and our operations in the future. We face strong competition which may adversely affect our profitability. We are subject to vigorous competition in all aspects and areas of our business from banks and other financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, savings banks, finance companies, credit unions and other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies and insurance companies. We also compete with non-financial institutions, including retail stores that maintain their own credit programs and governmental agencies that make available low cost or guaranteed loans to certain borrowers. Certain of our competitors are larger financial institutions with substantially greater resources, lending limits, larger branch systems and a wider array of commercial banking services. Competition from both bank and non-bank organizations will continue. 31 Table of Contents Our ability to successfully compete may be reduced if we are unable to make technological advances. The banking industry is experiencing rapid changes in technology. In addition to improving customer services, effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. As a result, our future success will depend in part on our ability to address our customers’ needs by using technology. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively develop new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products to our customers. Many of our competitors have far greater resources than we have to invest in technology. Our Deposit Insurance Premium Could Be Substantially Higher in the Future Which Would have an Adverse Effect on Our Future Earnings Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, absent extraordinary circumstances, must establish and implement a plan to restore the deposit insurance reserve ratio to 1.15% of insured deposits, over a five-year period, at any time that the reserve ratio falls below 1.15%. The recent failures of a large financial institution and several smaller ones have significantly increased the Deposit Insurance Fund’s loss provisions, resulting in a decline in the reserve ratio to 0.40% as of December 31, 2008, 79 basis points below the reserve ratio as of March 31, 2008. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation expects a higher rate of insured institution failures in the next few years, which may result in a continued decline in the reserve ratio. On February 27, 2009, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation released a seven-year recapitalization plan and a proposal to raise premiums to recapitalize the fund. In order to implement the restoration plan, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation proposed to change both its risk-based assessment system and its base assessment rates. Assessment rates would increase by seven basis points across the range of risk weightings. Changes to the risk-based assessment system would include increasing premiums for institutions that rely on excessive amounts of brokered deposits, increasing premiums for excessive use of secured liabilities, and lowering premiums for smaller institutions with very high capital levels. On February 27, 2009, the FDIC also adopted an interim rule imposing a 20 basis point emergency special assessment on insured institutions on June 30, 2009, payable on September 30, 2009. The interim rule also permits the FDIC to impose an additional special assessment after June 30, 2009, of up to 10 basis points if necessary to maintain public confidence in federal deposit insurance. However, FDIC Chairman Bair has indicated in a letter to Senate Banking Committee Chairman Dodd that, if the U.S. Congress passes a bill increasing the FDIC’s authority to borrow from the U.S. Department of Treasury, the FDIC would reduce the proposed special assessment. The U.S. Congress is currently considering legislation on such an increase in borrowing authority. The Actions of the U.S. Government for the Purpose of Stabilizing the Financial Markets, or Market Response to those Actions, May Not Achieve the Intended Effect, and our Results of Operations Could Be Adversely Effected In response to the financial issues affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, the U.S. Congress recently enacted the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”). The EESA provides the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury with the authority to establish a Troubled Asset Relief Program to purchase from financial institutions up to $700 billion of residential or commercial mortgages and any securities, obligations or other instruments that are based on or related to such mortgages, that in each case was originated or issued on or before March 14, 2008, as well as any other financial instrument that the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury, after consultation with the Chairman of the Federal Reserve, determines the purchase of which is necessary to promote financial market stability. As part of the EESA, the Treasury Department has developed a Capital Purchase Program to purchase up to $250 billion in senior preferred stock from qualifying financial institutions. The Capital Purchase Program was designed to strengthen the capital and liquidity positions of viable institutions and to encourage banks and thrifts 32 Table of Contents to increase lending to creditworthy borrowers. The EESA also establishes a Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program that gives the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation the ability to provide a guarantee for newly-issued senior unsecured debt and non-interest bearing transaction deposit accounts at eligible insured institutions. For non-interest bearing transaction deposit accounts, a 10 basis point annual rate surcharge will be applied to deposit amounts in excess of $250,000. We have elected not to participate in the Capital Purchase Program, but we are participating in the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. The U.S. Congress or federal banking regulatory agencies could adopt additional regulatory requirements or restrictions in response to the threats to the financial system and such changes may adversely affect the operations of Home Bank. In addition, the EESA may not have the intended beneficial impact on the financial markets or the banking industry. To the extent the market does not respond favorably to the Troubled Asset Relief Program or the program does not function as intended, our prospects and results of operations could be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 