Item 1A. Risk Factors. In analyzing whether to make or to continue an investment in our securities, investors should consider, among other factors, the following risk factors. There are increased risks involved with commercial real estate and construction lending activities. Our lending activities include loans secured by commercial real estate and multi-family residential mortgage loans. In addition, we periodically originate loans for the construction of residential and commercial use properties, although at December 31, 2011 and 2010 there were no construction loans in our loan portfolio. Commercial real estate, multi-family residential and construction lending generally is considered to involve a higher degree of risk than single-family residential lending due to a variety of factors, including generally larger loan balances, the dependency on successful completion or operation of the project for repayment, the difficulties in estimating construction costs and loan terms which often do not require full amortization of the loan over its term and, instead, provide for a balloon payment at stated maturity. As a result of the larger loan balances typically involved in these loans, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. As of December 31, 2011, our 10 largest commercial real estate, multi-family residential and land loans had an aggregate outstanding balance of $21.0 million, or 29.1% of total commercial real estate, multi-family residential and land loans and 10.6% of our total loan portfolio at such date. In addition, our portfolio of these loans is significantly weighted with loans which have been originated relatively recently and are not well seasoned, and thus, are generally perceived to be more susceptible to adverse economic conditions than older loans. Construction loans generally have a higher risk of loss than single-family residential mortgage loans due primarily to the critical nature of the initial estimates of a property’s value upon completion of construction compared to the estimated costs, including interest, of construction as well as other assumptions. If the estimates upon which construction loans are made prove to be inaccurate, we may be confronted with projects that, upon completion, have values which are below the loan amounts. During 2009, we had a $1.0 million participation interest in a $170.0 million construction loan for a mixed-use development located in Baton Rouge, Louisiana that was deemed to be an “in substance” foreclosure and transferred to other real estate owned. At the time of transfer the Bank recorded a $396,000 charge-off against its recorded investment in the asset. During 2010 and 2011, the Bank charged-off its investment in this property by an additional $107,000 and $64,000, respectively, following the receipt of Shared National Credit reviews of the project. This project was the Bank’s only asset covered by the Shared National Credit review program. The loss of our Executive Officers could hurt our operations. We rely heavily on our executive officers. The loss of any of these executive officers could have an adverse effect on us. Mr. LeBon is central to virtually all aspects of our business operations and management. Mr. LeBlanc is critical to our financial reporting function, and he also works closely with Mr. LeBon on virtually all other aspects of our operations. Ms. Callia is critical to our loan origination function. In addition, as a small community bank, we have fewer management-level personnel who are in position to succeed and assume the responsibilities of any of our executive officers. However, we have entered into employment agreements with Messrs. LeBon and LeBlanc and Ms. Callia. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our executive officers. 34 Our business is geographically concentrated in southern Louisiana, which makes us vulnerable to downturns in the local economy. Most of our loans are to individuals and businesses located generally in southern Louisiana and, more particularly, metropolitan New Orleans. Regional economic conditions affect the demand for our products and services as well as the ability of our customers to repay loans. The concentration of our business operations in southern Louisiana makes us vulnerable to downturns in the local economy. Declines in local real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for the loans we make. The region is susceptible to hurricanes and tropical storms. Any new hurricanes or storms could severely test the infrastructure of the markets we operate in, negatively affect the local economy or disrupt our operations, which would have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The operations of financial institutions such as us are dependent to a large extent on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities and the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. Changes in the general level of interest rates can affect our net interest income by affecting the difference between the weighted average yield earned on our interest-earning assets and the weighted average rate paid on our interest-bearing liabilities, or interest rate spread, and the average life of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Our net interest spread was 2.69% for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 2.70% for the year ended December 31, 2010. Changes in interest rates can affect our ability to originate loans; the value of our interest-earning assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets; our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; and the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Our results of operations are significantly dependent on economic conditions and related uncertainties. The operations of savings associations are affected, directly and indirectly, by domestic and international economic and political conditions and by governmental monetary and fiscal policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, volatile interest rates, real estate values, government monetary policy, international conflicts, the actions of terrorists and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in interest rates, in particular, could adversely affect our net interest income and have a number of other adverse effects on our operations. Adverse economic conditions also could result in an increase in loan delinquencies, foreclosures and nonperforming assets and a decrease in the value of the property or other collateral which secures our loans, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations. We are particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions and related uncertainties in the metropolitan New Orleans area because we derive the vast majority of our loans, deposits and other business from this area. Accordingly, we remain subject to the risks associated with prolonged declines in our local economy. 35 Our allowance for losses on loans may not be adequate to cover probable losses. We have established an allowance for loan losses which we believe is adequate to offset probable losses on our existing loans. There can be no assurance that any future declines in real estate market conditions, general economic conditions or changes in regulatory policies will not require us to increase our allowance for loan losses, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We face strong competition which may adversely affect our profitability. We are subject to vigorous competition in all aspects and areas of our business from banks and other financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, savings banks, finance companies, credit unions and other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies and insurance companies. We also compete with non-financial institutions, including retail stores that maintain their own credit programs and governmental agencies that make available low cost or guaranteed loans to certain borrowers. Certain of our competitors are larger financial institutions with substantially greater resources, lending limits, larger branch systems and a wider array of commercial banking services. Competition from both bank and non-bank organizations will continue. Increased and/or Special Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Assessments Will Hurt Our Earnings The economic recession has caused a high level of bank failures, which has dramatically increased Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the balance of the Deposit Insurance Fund. As a result, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. Increases in the base assessment rate have increased our deposit insurance costs and negatively impacted our earnings. In addition, in May 2009, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions. Our special assessment, which was reflected in earnings for the year ended December 31, 2009, was $126,000. In lieu of imposing an additional special assessment, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation required all institutions to prepay their assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. Additional increases in the base assessment rate or special assessments would negatively impact our earnings. We Operate In a Highly Regulated Environment and We May Be Adversely Affected By Changes in Laws and Regulations We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC, our primary federal regulator, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of our deposits. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of the Bank rather than for holders of our common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. 36 Historically low interest rates may adversely affect our net interest income and profitability During the past three years it has been the policy of the Federal Reserve Board to maintain interest rates at historically low levels through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. As a result, market rates on the loans we have originated and the yields on securities we have purchased have been at lower levels than as available prior to 2008. As a general matter, our interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets, which has been a contributing factor to increases in net interest income in the short term. Our ability to further lower our interest expense is limited as these interest rate levels already are at very low levels, while the average yield on our interest-earning assets may continue to decrease. The Federal Reserve Board has indicated its intention to maintain low interest rates in the future. Accordingly, our net interest income (the difference between interest income earned on assets and interest expense paid on liabilities) may decrease, which may have an adverse affect on our profitability. Legislative or regulatory responses to perceived financial and market problems could impair our rights against borrowers Current and future proposals made by members of Congress would reduce the amount distressed borrowers are otherwise contractually obligated to pay under their mortgage loans, and may limit the ability of lenders to foreclose on mortgage collateral. If proposals such as these, or other proposals limiting the Bank’s rights as creditor, were to be implemented, we could experience increased credit losses on our loans and mortgage-backed securities or increased expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor. Government responses to economic conditions may adversely affect our operations, financial condition and earnings The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act has changed the bank regulatory framework, created an independent consumer protection bureau that has assumed the consumer protection responsibilities of the various federal banking agencies, and established more stringent capital as standards for banks and bank holding companies. Bank regulatory agencies also have been responding aggressively to concerns and adverse trends identified in examinations. Ongoing uncertainty and adverse developments in the financial services industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the effect of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulatory actions, may adversely affect our operations by restricting our business activities, including our ability to originate or sell loans, modify loan terms or foreclose on property securing loans. These risks could affect the performance and value of our loan and investment securities portfolios, which also would negatively affect our financial performance. The recent repeal of federal prohibitions on payment of interest on demand deposits could increase our interest expense All federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the Dodd-Frank Act. As a result, beginning on July 21, 2011, financial institutions could commence offering interest on demand deposits to compete for clients. Our interest expense will increase and our net interest margin will decrease if we determine that, due to competitive pressures in the marketplace or otherwise, we begin offering interest on demand deposits to attract additional customers or maintain current customers. Consequently, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected, perhaps materially. 37 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 