Item 1A. Risk Factors. Limited partner interests are inherently different from the capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in a similar business. You should carefully consider the following risk factors together with all of the other information included in this report. If any of the following risks were actually to occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, we might not be able to pay distributions on our common units, the trading price of our common units could decline and our unitholders could lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to our Business We may not be able to continue as a going concern. The financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K have been prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern, though such an assumption may not be true. Due to continued uncertainty relating to our future cash flows as well as the related covenants and other restrictions under our credit facility, we face substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. We continue to experience increased expenses as a result of events surrounding the Bankruptcy Cases, including increased interest expense under our credit facility. In addition, we could be materially and adversely affected by the securities class action litigation and other actions pending against us. We can give no assurance as to our ability to raise sufficient capital or reve nues to meet our obligations or our ability to continue as a going concern. If we are unable to meet our obligations or violate the covenants under our amended credit facility we may voluntarily seek, or be forced to seek, protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or be forced into liquidation or to substantially restructure or alter our business operations and debt obligations. If we cease to continue as a going concern, you may lose your entire investment in us. Decreased volumes and revenues may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. As of the date of the Bankruptcy Filings, we were party to various agreements with SemCorp and its subsidiaries. Under the Throughput Agreement, we provided certain crude oil gathering, transportation, terminalling and storage services to a subsidiary of SemCorp that was a debtor in the Bankruptcy Cases. Under the Terminalling Agreement, we provided certain liquid asphalt cement terminalling and storage services to a subsidiary of SemCorp that was a debtor in the Bankruptcy Cases. Prior to the Order and the Settlement, SemCorp was obligated to pay us minimum monthly fees totaling $76.1 million annually and $58.9 million annually in respect of the minimum commitments under the Throughput Agreement and the Terminalling Agreement, resp ectively, regardless of whether such services were actually used by SemCorp. In connection with the Settlement, SemCorp rejected the Throughput Agreement and the Terminalling Agreement. We have been pursuing opportunities to provide crude oil terminalling and storage services and crude oil gathering and transportation services to third parties. Although average rates for the new third-party crude oil terminalling and storage and transportation and gathering contracts are comparable with those previously received from SemCorp, the volumes being terminalled, stored, transported and gathered have decreased as compared to periods prior to the Bankruptcy Filings, which has materially negatively impacted total revenues. For example, fourth quarter 2009 total revenues are approximately $14.4 million (or approximately 29%) less than second quarter 2008 total revenues (prior to the Bankruptcy Filings), in each case excluding fuel surcharge revenues related to fuel and power consumed to operate our asphalt product storage tanks. In addition, in the second quarter of 2009 we entered into leases and storage agreements with third parties relating to certain of our asphalt facilities. The revenues that we receive pursuant to these leases and storage agreements are less than the revenues received under the Terminalling Agreement with SemCorp. Our efforts to increase the third party revenue may not be successful. In addition, certain third parties may be less likely to enter into business transactions with us due to our financial condition and our prior affiliation with SemCorp and negative goodwill associated with the Bankruptcy Filings. If we are unable to generate sufficient third party revenues, we will continue to experience lower volumes in our system which could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, ability to make distributions to our unitholders, the price of our common units, our results of operations and ability to conduct our business. 17 Our historical relationship with SemCorp may affect our relationships with our customers. SemCorp continues to provide operational and administrative services related to our operations pursuant to the Shared Services Agreement and certain of our officers were previously officers of SemCorp. Additionally, many of our customers were previously customers of SemCorp. Because of this historical relationship with SemCorp, our customers may associate our operations with the operations of SemCorp despite our name change and Vitol as our controlling entity. Any such customers may be unwilling to do business with us or may only do so on undesirable terms. We are subject to an SEC inquiry. On July 21, 2008, we received a letter from the staff of the SEC giving notice that the SEC is conducting an inquiry relating to us and requesting, among other things, that we voluntarily preserve, retain and produce to the SEC certain documents and information relating primarily to our disclosures respecting SemCorp’s liquidity issues, which were the subject of our July 17, 2008 press release. On October 22, 2008, we received a subpoena from the SEC pursuant to a formal order of investigation requesting certain documents relating to, among other things, SemCorp’s liquidity issues. We have been cooperating, and intend to continue cooperating, with the SEC in its investigation. In the event that the SEC inquiry leads to action against any of our current or former directors or officers, or the Partnership itself, the trading price of our common units may be adversely impacted. In addition, the SEC inquiry may result in the incurrence of significant legal expense, both directly and as the result of our indemnification obligations. These matters may also divert management’s attention from our operations which may cause our business to suffer. If we are subject to adverse findings, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed upon us which could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, ability to make distributions to our unitholders, the price of our common units, our results of operations and abili ty to conduct our business. All or a portion of the defense costs and any amount we may be required to pay in connection with the resolution of these matters may not be covered by insurance. We have been named as a party in lawsuits and may be named in additional litigation in the future, all of which could result in an unfavorable outcome and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to make distributions to our unitholders, the trading price of our common units and our ability to conduct our business. We are subject to class action litigation that is pending as In Re: SemGroup Energy Partners, L.P. Securities Litigation, Case No. 08-CV-425-GKF-PJC. The lead plaintiff filed a consolidated amended complaint on May 4, 2009. In that complaint, filed as a putative class action on behalf of all purchasers of our units from July 17, 2007 to July 17, 2008 (the “class period”), lead plaintiff asserts claims under the federal securities laws against us, our General Partner, certain of our current and former officers and directors, certain underwriters in our initial and secondary public offerings, and certain entities who were investors in SemCorp and their individual representatives who served on SemCorp’s management committee. Among other allegations, the amended complaint alleges that our financial condition throughout the class period was dependent upon speculative commodities trading by SemCorp and its Chief Executive Officer, Thomas L. Kivisto, and that defendants negligently and intentionally failed to disclose this speculative trading in our public filings during the class period. The Amended Complaint further alleges there were other material omissions and misrepresentations contained in our filings during the class period. The amended complaint alleges claims for violations of sections 11, 12(a)(2), and 15 of the Securities Act of 1933 for damages and rescission with respect to all persons who purchased our units in the initial and secondary offerings, and also asserts claims under section 10b, Rule 10b-5, and section 20(a) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. The amended complaint seeks certification as a class action under the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, compensatory and rescissory damages for class members, pre-judgment interest, costs of court, and attorneys’ fees. On July 22, 2009, all of the defendants filed motions to dismiss the amended complaint. The lead plaintiff filed a response in opposition to the defendants’ motion to dismiss on September 1, 2009. On October 8, 2009, the defendants filed a reply in support of their motion to dismiss. The lead plaintiff filed a supplemental opposition to the defendants’ motion to dismiss on October 29, 2009. The defendants’ motion to dismiss is currently pending before the court. 18 We intend to vigorously defend these actions. There can be no assurance regarding the outcome of the litigation. An estimate of possible loss, if any, or the range of loss cannot be made and therefore we have not accrued a loss contingency related to these actions. However, the ultimate resolution of these actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to make distributions to our unitholders, the trading price of the our common units and our ability to conduct our business. The Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors of SemCrude, L.P. (“Unsecured Creditors Committee”) filed an adversary proceeding in connection with the Bankruptcy Cases against Mr. Kivisto (a former member of the Board), Gregory C. Wallace (a former member of the Board) and Westback Purchasing Company, L.L.C., a limited liability trading partnership that Mr. Kivisto owned and controlled. In that proceeding, filed February 18, 2009, the Unsecured Creditors Committee asserted various claims against the defendants on behalf of SemCorp’s bankruptcy estate, including claims based upon theories of fraudulent transfer, breach of fiduciary duties, waste, breach of contract, and unjust enrichment. On June 8, 2009, the Unsecured Creditors Com mittee filed a Second Amended Complaint asserting additional claims against Kevin L. Foxx (our General Partner’s former President and Chief Executive Officer) and Alex G. Stallings (our General Partners’s Chief Financial Officer), among others, based upon certain findings and recommendations in the Examiner’s Report (see "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition - Impact of the Bankruptcy of SemCorp and Certain of its Subsidiaries and Related Events - Examiner"). On October 6, 2009, a Third Amended Complaint was filed, and in December 2009, the Litigation Trust was substituted as the Plaintiff in the action. The claims in the Third Amended Complaint against Mr. Foxx and Mr. Stallings are based upon theories of fraudulent transfer, unjust enrichment, waste, breach of fiduciary duty, and breach of contract. Messrs. Foxx and Stallings have moved to dismiss the claims against them, and the motions are pending. In March and April 2009, nine current or former executives of SemCorp and certain of its affiliates filed wage claims with the Oklahoma Department of Labor against our General Partner. Their claims arise from our General Partner’s Long-Term Incentive Plan, Employee Phantom Unit Agreement (“Phantom Unit Agreement”). Most claimants allege that phantom units previously awarded to them vested upon the Manchester Change of Control that occurred in July 2008. One claimant alleges that his phantom units vested upon his termination. The claimants contend our General Partner’s failure to deliver certificates for the phantom units within 60 days after vesting has caused them to be damaged, and they seek recovery of approximately $2 million in damages and penalties. On April 30, 2009, all of the wage claims were dismissed on jurisdictional grounds by the Department of Labor. On July 8, 2009, the nine executives filed suit against our General Partner in Tulsa County district court claiming they are entitled to recover the value of phantom units purportedly due them under the Phantom Unit Agreement. The claimants assert claims against our General Partner for alleged failure to pay wages and breach of contract and seek to recover the alleged value of units in the total amount of approximately $1.3 million, plus additional damages and attorneys’ fees. We have distributed phantom units to certain of the claimants, but the litigation remains pending. The trial is currently scheduled to commence April 1, 2010. There can be no assurance regarding the outcome of this litigation. The ultimate resolution of this action could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to make distributions to our unitholders, the trading price of the our common units and our ability to conduct our business. The trial is currently scheduled to commence April 1, 2010. We may become the subject of additional private or government actions regarding these matters in the future. Litigation may be time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to normal business operations, and the outcome of litigation is difficult to predict. The defense of these claims and lawsuits may result in the incurrence of significant legal expense, both directly and as the result of our indemnification obligations. The litigation will also divert management’s attention from our operations which may cause our business to suffer. An unfavorable outcome in any of these matters, including any substantial costs incurred in settling these matters, may have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, abi lity to make distributions to our unitholders, the price of our common units, our results of operations and ability to conduct our business. All or a portion of the defense costs and any amount we may be required to pay to satisfy a judgment or settlement of these claims may not be covered by insurance. We may continue to incur substantial costs as a result of events related to the Bankruptcy Filings. Events related to the Bankruptcy Filings, the securities litigation and governmental investigations, and our efforts to enter into storage contracts with third party customers and pursue other strategic opportunities has resulted in increased expense and we expect it to continue to result in increased expense due to the costs related to legal and financial advisors as well as other related costs. General and administrative expenses (exclusive of non-cash compensation expense related to the vesting of the units under our General Partner’s long-term incentive plan (the “Long-Term Incentive Plan”)) increased by approximately $2.8 million, or approximately 122%, to approximately $5.1 million for the fourth quarter of 2009, compare d to $2.3 million in the second quarter of 2008 (prior to the Bankruptcy Filings). We expect this increased level of general and administrative expenses to continue throughout 2010 and possibly increase. These increased costs may be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, ability to make distributions to our unitholders, the price of our common units, our results of operations and ability to conduct our business. 19 We continue to rely upon SemCorp for certain operational and administrative services. Any material nonperformance by SemCorp of these operational and administrative services could have a material adverse affect on our operations. In connection with the Settlement we entered into the Shared Services Agreement with SemCorp. Pursuant to such agreement we continue to rely upon SemCorp for certain operational and administrative services relating to our operations. Any material nonperformance under the Shared Services Agreement by SemCorp could materially and adversely impact our business, cash flows, ability to make distributions to our unitholders, the price of our common units, our results of operations and ability to conduct our business. Additionally, if any employees of SemCorp performing services on our behalf favor SemCorp’s interests over our interests when conducting our operations, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, ability to make distributions to our unitholders , the price of our common units, our results of operations and ability to conduct our business. In addition, any reductions in critical personnel who provide services to us and any increased costs to replace such personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, ability to make distributions to our unitholders, the price of our common units, our results of operations and ability to conduct our business. Our future operations and cash flows are uncertain and may cause events of default under our credit agreement. Our future operations and cash flows are uncertain. The covenants and other requirements under our credit facility were designed using certain projections and assumptions relating to revenues, EBITDA and cash flows. In addition, our interest expense has increased due to our entering into amendments to our credit agreement after the Bankruptcy Filings. For example, the weighted average interest rate incurred by us during the three months ended June 30, 2008 (prior to the Bankruptcy Filings) was 4.62% resulting in interest expense of approximately $4.3 million as compared to a weighted average interest rate incurred by us of 12.0% during the three months ended December 31, 2009 resulting in interest expense of approximately $12.8 mill ion. This increased interest expense may have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, ability to make distributions to our unitholders, the price of our common units, our results of operations and ability to conduct our business. We may not be able to raise sufficient capital to operate or grow our business. As of March 19, 2010, we had an aggregate unused credit availability under our revolving credit facility of approximately $17.1 million and cash on hand of approximately $2.2 million. Pursuant to our credit agreement, our revolving credit facility is limited to $40.0 million. Our ability to access capital markets may also be limited due to uncertainty of our future cash flows, litigation and other contingencies and our ability to continue as a going concern. In addition, we may have difficulty obtaining a credit rating or any credit rating that we do obtain may be lower that it otherwise would be due to these uncertainties. The lack of a credit rating or a low credit rating may also adversely impact our ability to access capital markets. If we fail to raise additional capital or an event of default exists under our credit agreement, we may be forced to sell assets, make a bankruptcy filing or take other action that could have a material adverse effect on our business, the price of our common units and our results of operations. In addition, if we are unable to access the capital markets for acquisitions or expansion projects, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, ability to make distributions to our unitholders, the price of our common units, our results of operations and ability to conduct our business. We may not be able to obtain funding or obtain funding on acceptable terms because of the deterioration of the credit and capital markets. As a result of the recent crisis in the credit and capital markets (including uncertainties with respect to financial institutions and the global capital markets) as well as other economic challenges currently affecting the economy of the United States and other parts of the world, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased while the availability of funds from those markets generally has diminished. While certain near-term economic conditions have shown some improvement, it is not clear that this improvement will continue and it is possible that economic conditions could get worse. If economic conditions in the United States and other key markets deteriorate further or do not show improvement, it may have a material adverse effect on our ability to refinance our indebtedness or obtain funding to operate and grow our business. In addition, even if we are able to complete such a refinancing or obtain such funding, it may be at higher interest rates or result in substantial equity dilution. 20 We require a significant amount of cash to service our indebtedness. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund any future capital expenditures depends on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure our unitholders that we will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit agreement or otherwise at all or in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. Our credit facility expires on June 30, 2011, and we may not be able to replace it on favorable market terms or at all. Our credit facility expires on June 30, 2011 and we may not be able to replace it on favorable market terms, or at all. Any new credit facility may have higher interest rates and fees and more restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility or subject us to different events of default. If we are unable to replace our credit facility on favorable terms or we are unable to obtain alternative sources of liquidity, we could be adversely impacted. In addition, we may decide, for strategic or other reasons, to terminate our credit facility and implement a new capital structure prior to the expiration of our current credit facility. Any new capital structure may result in a new credit facility, issuance of public debt, issuance of additional common units or securities convertible into common units, repurchase of existing common units, other alternatives or a combination of such items. Implementation of a new capital structure may be costly, may dilute the ownership of our current unitholders, and may also result in restrictive covenants that could limit our business activities and decrease our future financial and operational flexibility. Our debt levels under the credit agreement may limit our ability to make distributions and our flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $428.0 million in outstanding indebtedness under our credit facility. Our level of debt under the credit facility could have important consequences for us, including the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; • we will need a substantial portion of our cash flow to make principal and interest payments on our debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders; • our debt level will make us more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and • our debt level may limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors. Our ability to service debt under our credit facility also will depend on market interest rates, since the interest rates applicable to our borrowings will fluctuate with the London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR, or the prime rate, and are higher due to amendments to our credit facility. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expendit ures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt, or seeking additional equity capital. We may not be able to effect any of these actions on satisfactory terms, or at all. 21 We expect that for the foreseeable future, substantially all of our cash generated from operations will be used to service our debt and restrictions in our credit facility may prevent us from making capital expenditures, growing our business or otherwise engaging in beneficial transactions. We expect that for the foreseeable future, substantially all of our cash generated from operations will be used to service our debt. Among other things, our credit facility requires us to make (i) minimum quarterly amortization payments on March 31, 2010 in the amount of $2.0 million, June 30, 2010 in the amount of $2.0 million, September 30, 2010 in the amount of $2.5 million, December 31, 2010 in the amount of $2.5 million and March 31, 2011 in the amount of $2.5 million, (ii) mandatory prepayments of amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility (with no commitment reduction) whenever cash on hand exceeds $15.0 million, (iii) mandatory prepayments with 100% of asset sale proceeds, (iv) mandatory prepayments with 50% of the proceeds raised through equity sales and (v) annual prepayments with 75% of excess cash flow (as defined in our credit agreement). Our credit facility prohibits us from making draws under the revolving credit facility if we would have more than $15.0 million of cash on hand after making the draw and applying the proceeds thereof. In addition, pursuant to our credit facility, our revolving credit facility is limited to $40.0 million. Capital expenditures are also limited under our credit agreement to $8.0 million in 2010, and $4.0 million in 2011. These restrictions may prevent us from making capital expenditures, growing our business or otherwise engaging in beneficial transactions. Furthermore, our credit facility requires us to comply with certain restrictive financial covenants, including minimum interest coverage ratios and maximum leverage ratios (see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition —Liquidity and Capital Resources” and Note 7 to our Consolidated Financi al Statements). Failure to comply with these covenants may result in an event of default under our credit facility and may have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, ability to make distributions to our unitholders, the price of our common units, our results of operations and ability to conduct our business. We did not make a distribution for the second, third or fourth quarter of 2008, any quarter of 2009, and do not expect to make a distribution for the first quarter of 2010, and may not make distributions in the future. We did not make a distribution to our common unitholders, subordinated unitholders or General Partner attributable to the results of operations for the quarter ended June 30, 2008 through the quarter ended December 31, 2009 due to the events of default under our credit agreement and the uncertainty of our future cash flows. In addition, we do not currently expect to make a distribution relating to the first quarter of 2010. Our unitholders will be required to pay taxes on their share of our taxable income even though they did not receive a cash distribution for the applicable periods. See “—Tax Risks to Common Unitholders—Our unitholders have been and will be required to pay taxes on their share of our taxable income even if they have not or do not receive any cas h distributions from us.” Pursuant to our credit facility, we are prohibited from making distributions to our unitholders if our leverage ratio (as defined in the credit agreement to mean the ratio of total funded indebtedness to EBITDA as those terms are defined in the credit agreement) exceeds 3.50 to 1.00. As of December 31, 2009, our leverage ratio was 6.71 to 1.00. We are uncertain as to when, if ever, our leverage ratio will be below 3.50 to 1.00 and therefore we are uncertain as to when or if we may again make distributions to our unitholders. Even if we are permitted to make distributions under our credit agreement, we do not expect to have sufficient available cash from operating surplus each quarter to enable us to make cash distributions. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things, the risks described in this section. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, including: • the level of capital expenditures we make; • the cost of acquisitions; • our debt service requirements and other liabilities; • fluctuations in our working capital needs; • our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets; • restrictions contained in our credit facility or other debt agreements, including the ability to make distributions while events of default exist under our credit facility; and • the amount of cash reserves established by our General Partner. 22 The amount of cash we have available for distribution to holders of our common units and subordinated units depends primarily on our cash flow and not solely on earnings reflected in our financial statements. Consequently, even if we are profitable and are otherwise able to pay distributions, we may not be able to make cash distributions to holders of our common units and subordinated units. Our unitholders should be aware that the amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow and not solely on earnings reflected in our financial statements, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions, if permitted by our credit agreement, during periods when we record losses for financial accounting purposes and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net earnings for financial accounting purposes. If we borrow funds to make any permitted quarterly distributions, our ability to pursue acquisitions and other business opportunities may be limited and our operations may be materially and adversely affected. Available cash for the purpose of making distributions to unitholders includes working capital borrowings. If we borrow funds to pay one or more quarterly distributions, such amounts will incur interest and must be repaid in accordance with the terms of our credit facility. Currently we are prohibited from paying distributions to our unitholders due to our failure to maintain a leverage ratio that is less than 3.50 to 1.00, as required by our credit agreement. In addition, any amounts borrowed for permitted distributions to our unitholders will reduce the funds available to us for other purposes under our credit facility, including amounts available for use in connection with acquisitions and other business opportunities. If we are unable to pursue our growth strategy due to our lim ited ability to borrow funds, our operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our common units were delisted from the Nasdaq and are currently quoted on the Pink Sheets, which may make buying or selling our common units more difficult. Effective at the opening of business on February 20, 2009, trading in our common units was suspended on Nasdaq due to our failure to timely file our periodic reports with the SEC, and our common units were subsequently delisted from Nasdaq. Our common units are currently traded on the Pink Sheets, which is an over-the-counter securities market, under the symbol BKEP.PK. The fact that our common units are not listed on a national securities exchange is likely to make trading such common units more difficult for broker-dealers, unitholders and investors, potentially leading to further declines in the price of our common units. In addition, it may limit the number of institutional and other investors that will consider investing in our comm on units, which may have an adverse effect on the price of our common units. It may also make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future. In addition, because our common units are traded on the Pink Sheets, we are subject to fewer rules and regulations than if our common units were traded on Nasdaq or another national securities exchange. For example, we may amend our Long-Term Incentive Plan to increase the number of common units available thereunder without a unitholder vote, which would otherwise be required under Nasdaq’s rules. We may not be able to relist our common units on Nasdaq or any other national securities exchange, and we may face a lengthy process to relist our common units if we are able to relist them at all. If our General Partner fails to develop or maintain an effective system of internal controls, then we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential unitholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our common units. Our General Partner has sole responsibility for conducting our business and for managing our operations. Effective internal controls are necessary for our General Partner, on our behalf, to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and operate us successfully as a public company. If our General Partner’s efforts to develop and maintain its internal controls are not successful, it is unable to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or it is unable to assist us in complying with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our operating results could be harmed or we may fail to meet our reporting obligations. 23 We and our General Partner rely upon SemCorp for certain personnel related to our internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures for certain of our crude oil operations. Ineffective internal controls could cause us to report inaccurate financial information or cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common units. We are not fully insured against all risks incident to our business, and could incur substantial liabilities as a result. We may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. As a result of changing market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies may increase substantially in the future. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, ability to make distributions to our unitholders, the price of our common units, our results of operations and ability to conduct our business. We depend on certain key customers for a portion of our revenues. The loss of any of these key customers could result in a decline in our revenues. We rely on a certain key customers for a portion of revenues. For example, Vitol represented approximately 6% of our 2009 revenues, and we expect Vitol may account for more than 10% of our 2010 revenues. Barclays Capital Energy, Inc., Mercuria Energy Trading, Inc., and Nexen Marketing USA, Inc. accounted for 27%, 13%, and 11%, respectively of crude oil terminalling and storage revenue for 2009. ConocoPhillips Co. accounted for 13% of crude oil gathering and transportation revenue for 2009. SemCorp, Ergon Asphalt & Emulsions, 160;and NuStar Marketing LLC accounted for 38%, 17%, and 18%, respectively, of asphalt services revenue for 2009. We may be unable to negotiate extensions or replacements of contracts with key customers on favorable terms. The loss of all or even a portion of the contracted volumes of these key customers, as a result of competition, creditworthiness or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, ability to make distributions to our unitholders, the price of our common units, our results of operations and ability to conduct our business. Our asphalt services contracts have short terms and certain leases relating to our asphalt operations may be terminated upon short notice. We currently have entered into leases and storage agreements with third party customers relating to 45 of our 46 asphalt facilities. The majority of these leases and storage agreements with third parties expire on December 31, 2011. We may not be able to renew or extend our existing contracts or enter into new leases or storage agreements when such contracts expire. In addition, certain key customers account for a portion of our asphalt services revenues, the loss of which could result in a decrease in revenues from our asphalt operations. A significant decrease in the revenues we receive from our asphalt operations could result in violations of covenants under our credit facility and could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, ability to make distributions to our unitholders, the price of our common units, our results of operations and ability to conduct our business. In addition, certain of our asphalt facilities are located on land that we lease. Some of these leases may be terminated by the lessor with as short as thirty days’ notice. We also have not yet received consent from certain of the lessors to sublease such facilities, which may result in a default under such lease or invalidate the subleases. If such leases were terminated, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to provide asphalt services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, ability to make distributions to our unitholders, the price of our common units, our results of operations and ability to conduct our business. In addition, in certain instances, a prior lessee has challenged the consents we received from the counterparty to such leases and has disputed our rights under such leases. If it were determined that we did not have rights under these leases, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our asphalt operations and on our financial condition and results of operations. A significant decrease in demand for crude oil and/or finished asphalt products in the areas served by our storage facilities and pipelines could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders if we are otherwise permitted to make distributions under our credit agreement. A sustained decrease in demand for crude oil and/or finished asphalt products in the areas served by our storage facilities and pipelines could significantly reduce our revenues and, therefore, reduce our ability to make or increase distributions to our unitholders if we are otherwise permitted to make distributions under our credit agreement. Factors that could lead to a decrease in market demand for crude oil and finished asphalt products include: 24 • lower demand by consumers for refined products, including finished asphalt products, as a result of recession or other adverse economic conditions or due to high prices caused by an increase in the market price of crude oil or higher fuel taxes or other governmental or regulatory actions that increase, directly or indirectly, the cost of gasolines or other refined products; • a shift by consumers to more fuel-efficient or alternative fuel vehicles or an increase in fuel economy of vehicles, whether as a result of technological advances by manufacturers, governmental or regulatory actions or otherwise; and • fluctuations in demand for crude oil, such as those caused by refinery downtime or shutdowns, could also significantly reduce our revenues and, therefore, reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Certain of our field and pipeline operating costs and expenses are fixed and do not vary with the volumes we gather and transport. These costs and expenses may not decrease ratably or at all should we experience a reduction in our volumes gathered or transmitted by our gathering and transportation operations. As a result, we may experience declines in our margin and profitability if our volumes decrease. A material decrease in the production of crude oil from the oil fields served by our pipelines could materially reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders if we are otherwise permitted to make distributions under our credit agreement. The throughput on our crude oil pipelines depends on the availability of attractively priced crude oil produced from the oil fields served by such pipelines, or through connections with pipelines owned by third parties. Crude oil production may decline for a number of reasons, including natural declines due to depleting wells, a material decrease in the price of crude oil, or the inability of producers to obtain necessary drilling or other permits from applicable governmental authorities. If we are unable to replace volumes lost due to a temporary or permanent material decrease in production from the oil fields served by our crude oil pipelines, our throughput could decline, reducing our revenue and cash flow and adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, it is d ifficult to attract producers to a new gathering system if the producer is already connected to an existing system. As a result, third-party shippers on our pipeline systems may experience difficulty acquiring crude oil at the wellhead in areas where there are existing relationships between producers and other gatherers and purchasers of crude oil. A material decrease in the production of liquid asphalt cement could materially reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders if we are otherwise permitted to make distributions under our credit agreement. The throughput at our asphalt facilities depends on the availability of attractively priced liquid asphalt cement produced from the various liquid asphalt cement producing refineries. Liquid asphalt cement production may decline for a number of reasons, including refiners processing more light, sweet crude oil or refiners installing coker units that further refine heavy residual fuel oil bottoms such as liquid asphalt cement. If we are unable to replace volumes lost due to a temporary or permanent material decrease in production from the suppliers of liquid asphalt cement, our throughput could decline, reducing our revenue and cash flow and adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. 25 We face intense competition in our gathering, transportation, terminalling and storage activities. Competition from other providers of crude oil gathering, transportation, terminalling and storage services that are able to supply our customers with those services at a lower price could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders if we are otherwise permitted to make distributions under our credit agreement. We are subject to competition from other crude oil gathering, transportation, terminalling and storage operations that may be able to supply our customers with the same or comparable services on a more competitive basis. We compete with national, regional and local gathering, storage, terminalling and pipeline companies, including the major integrated oil companies, of widely varying sizes, financial resources and experience. Some of these competitors are substantially larger than us, have greater financial resources, and control substantially greater storage capacity than we do. With respect to our gathering and transportation services, these competitors include Enterprise Products Partners L.P., Plains All American Pipeline, L.P., ConocoPhillips, Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. and National Cooperative Refinery A ssociation, among others. With respect to our storage and terminalling services, these competitors include BP plc, Enbridge Energy Partners, L.P. and Plains All American Pipeline, L.P. Several of our competitors conduct portions of their operations through publicly traded partnerships with structures similar to ours, including Plains All American Pipeline, L.P., Enterprise Products Partners Partners L.P., Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. and Enbridge Energy Partners, L.P. Our ability to compete could be harmed by numerous factors, including: • price competition; • the perception that another company can provide better service; • losses sustained by our customers as a result of SemCorp having filed bankruptcy; and • the availability of alternative supply points, or supply points located closer to the operations of our customers. In addition, SemCorp owns midstream assets and may engage in competition with us. If we are unable to compete with services offered by other midstream enterprises, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Some of our pipeline systems are dependent upon their interconnections with other crude oil pipelines to reach end markets. Some of our pipeline systems are dependent upon their interconnections with other crude oil pipelines to reach end markets. Reduced throughput on these interconnecting pipelines as a result of testing, line repair, reduced operating pressures or other causes could result in reduced throughput on our pipeline systems that would adversely affect our revenue, cash flow and results of operations. Prior to the Bankruptcy Filings, a principal focus of our business strategy was to grow and expand our business through acquisitions. If we are able to pursue this strategy in the future but are unable to make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, our future growth may be limited. Prior to the Bankruptcy Filings, a principal focus of our business strategy was to grow and expand our business through acquisitions. If we are able to stabilize our business, we may be able to again pursue this strategy. Our ability to grow in the future will depend, in part, on our ability to make acquisitions that result in an increase in the cash generated per unit from operations. If we are unable to make these accretive acquisitions, either because we are (1) unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts with them, (2) unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms or (3) outbid by competitors, then our future growth and ability to increase distributions will be limited. Furthermore, even if we do make acquisitions that we believe will be accretive, these acquisitions may nevertheless result in a decrease in the cash generated from operations per unit. 26 Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: • mistaken assumptions about volumes, revenues and costs, including synergies; • an inability to integrate successfully the businesses we acquire; • an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate our business and assets; • the assumption of unknown liabilities; • limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; • mistaken assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt; • the diversion of management’s and employees’ attention from other business concerns; • unforeseen difficulties operating in new product areas or new geographic areas; and • customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses. If we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and our unitholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of these funds and other resources. Prior to the Bankruptcy Filings, our growth strategy included acquiring midstream entities or assets that are distinct and separate from our existing terminalling, storage, gathering and transportation operations. If we are able to pursue this strategy in the future, it could subject us to additional business and operating risks. We may acquire midstream assets that have operations in new and distinct lines of business from our crude oil or our liquid asphalt cement operations. Integration of a new business is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. Failure to timely and successfully integrate acquired entities’ new lines of business with our existing operations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The difficulties of integrating a new business with our existing operations include, among other things: • operating distinct businesses that require different operating strategies and different managerial expertise; • the necessity of coordinating organizations, systems and facilities in different locations; • integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; and • consolidating corporate and administrative functions. In addition, the diversion of our attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the integration of a new business, such as unanticipated liabilities or costs, could harm our existing business, results of operations, financial conditions and prospects. Furthermore, new lines of business will subject us to additional business and operating risks. For example, we may in the future determine to acquire businesses that are subject to significant risks due to fluctuations in commodity prices. These new business and operating risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Expanding our business by constructing new assets subjects us to risks that projects may not be completed on schedule, and that the costs associated with projects may exceed our expectations, which could cause our cash available for distribution to our unitholders to be less than anticipated. The construction of additions or modifications to our existing assets, and the construction of new assets, involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political, legal and operational uncertainties and requires the expenditure of significant amounts of capital. If we undertake these types of projects, they may not be completed on schedule or at all or at the budgeted cost. In addition, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. Moreover, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in demand in a market in which such growth does not materialize. 27 We are exposed to the credit risks of our third-party customers in the ordinary course of our gathering activities. Any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our third-party customers could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders to the extent permitted by our credit agreement. We are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our third-party customers. Some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. In addition, any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers could require us to pursue substitute customers for our affected assets or provide alternative services. Any such efforts may not be successful or may not provide similar fees. These events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our revenues from third-party customers are generated under contracts that must be renegotiated periodically and that allow the customer to reduce or suspend performance in some circumstances, which could cause our revenues from those contracts to decline and reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders to the extent permitted by our credit agreement. Some of our contract-based revenues from customers are generated under contracts with terms which allow the customer to reduce or suspend performance under the contract in specified circumstances, such as the occurrence of a catastrophic event to our or the customer’s operations. The occurrence of an event which results in a material reduction or suspension of our customer’s performance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Many of our contracts with customers for producer field services have terms of one year or less. As these contracts expire, they must be extended and renegotiated or replaced. We may not be able to extend, renegotiate or replace these contracts when they expire, and the terms of any renegotiated contracts may not be as favorable as the contracts they replace. In particular, our ability to extend or replace contracts could be harmed by numerous competitive factors, such as those described above under “Part I. Item 1. — Business — Competition.” We face intense competition in our gathering, transportation, terminalling and storage activities. Competition from other providers of crude oil gathering, transp ortation, terminalling and storage services that are able to supply our customers with those services at a lower price could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.” Additionally, we may incur substantial costs if modifications to our terminals are required in order to attract substitute customers or provide alternative services. If we cannot successfully renew significant contracts or must renew them on less favorable terms, or if we incur substantial costs in modifying our terminals, our revenues from these arrangements could decline which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may incur significant costs and liabilities as a result of pipeline integrity management program testing and any necessary pipeline repair, or preventative or remedial measures, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The DOT has adopted regulations requiring pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs for transportation pipelines located where a leak or rupture could do the most harm in “high consequence areas,” including high population areas, areas that are sources of drinking water, ecological resource areas that are unusually sensitive to environmental damage from a pipeline release and commercially navigable waterways, unless the operator effectively demonstrates by risk assessment that the pipeline could not affect the area. The regulations require operators of covered pipelines to: • perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity; • identify and characterize threats to pipeline segments that could impact a high consequence area; • improve data collection, integration and analysis; • repair and remediate the pipeline as necessary; and • implement preventive and mitigating actions. 28 Effective July, 2008, the DOT broadened the scope of coverage of its existing pipeline safety standards, including its integrity management programs, to include certain rural onshore hazardous liquid and low-stress pipeline systems found near “unusually sensitive areas,” including non-populated areas requiring extra protection because of the presence of sole source drinking water resources, endangered species, or other ecological resources. Also, in December, 2006, the Pipeline Inspection, Protection, Enforcement and Safety Act of 2006 was enacted. This act reauthorizes and amends the DOT’s pipeline safety programs and includes a provision eliminating the regulatory exemption for hazardous liquid pipelines operated at low stress. Adoption of new or more stringent pipeline safety regulations affecting our gathering or low-stress pipelines could result in more rigorous and costly integrity management planning requirements being imposed on those lines, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Please read “Item 1. Business—Regulation—Pipeline Safety” for more information. Our operations are subject to environmental and worker safety laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our unitholders if we are otherwise permitted to make distributions under our credit agreement. Our midstream crude oil gathering, transportation, terminalling and storage operations and our asphalt terminalling and storage assets, are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. Various governmental authorities, including the EPA, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, and violators are subject to administrative, civil and criminal penalties, including civil fines, injunctions or both. Joint and several strict liability may be incurred without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct under CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state laws for the remediation of contaminated areas. Private parties, including the owners of properties located near our terminalling and storage facilities or through which our pipeline systems pass, also may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance, as well as seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. Moreover, new stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could be implemented that significantly increase our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary, some of which may be material. In performing midstream operations and asphalt services, we incur environmental costs and liabilities in connection with the handling of hydrocarbons and solid wastes. We currently own, operate or lease properties that for many years have been used for midstream activities, including properties in and around the Cushing Interchange, and with respect to our asphalt assets, for asphalt activities. Activities by us or prior owners, lessees or users of these properties over whom we had no control may have resulted in the spill or release of hydrocarbons or solid wastes on or under them. Additionally, some sites we own or operate are located near current or former storage, terminal and pipeline operations, and there is a risk that contamination has migrated from those sites to ours. Increasingly strict environmental la ws, regulations and enforcement policies as well as claims for damages and other similar developments could result in significant costs and liabilities, and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders could suffer as a result. Please see “Item 1—Business—Regulation” for more information. In addition, the workplaces associated with the storage facilities and pipelines we operate are subject to OSHA requirements and comparable state statutes that regulate the protection of the health and safety of workers. The OSHA hazard communication standard requires that we maintain information about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations and that we provide this information to employees, state and local government authorities, and local residents. Failure to comply with OSHA requirements, including general industry standards, recordkeeping requirements and monitoring of occupational exposure to regulated substances, could subject us to fines or significant compliance costs and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 29 Adoption of legislation and regulatory measures targeting greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions could affect our operations, expose us to significant costs and liabilities, and reduce demand for the products we transport. The crude oil and petroleum-based product business is a direct source of certain GHG emissions, namely carbon dioxide and methane, and future restrictions on such emissions could impact our future operations. Federal legislation requiring GHG controls is under consideration and may be enacted. In addition, in December 2009, the EPA made a determination that greenhouse gases are a threat to the public health and the environment and may be regulated as “pollutants” under the Clean Air Act. This “Endangerment Finding” took effect on January 14, 2010. While the Endangerment Finding does not impose any direct requirements on industry or other entities, it allows EPA to promulgate motor vehicle GHG emission standards. 160;EPA is expected to promulgate such standards in March 2010 and they would take effect sometime thereafter. These standards could impact our operations by effectively reducing demand for motor fuels from crude oil. Furthermore, EPA has asserted that final motor vehicle GHG emission standards will trigger construction and operating permit requirements for stationary sources, which EPA has proposed to tailor such that only large stationary sources will be required to obtain air permits for new or modified facilities. Thus, adoption of the motor vehicle standards could also potentially affect our operations and ability to obtain air permits for new or modified facilities. Moreover, in September 2009, the EPA issued a rule that establishes comprehensive requirements for monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions on an annual basis by operators of certain stationary sources in the U.S. emitting more than established annual thresholds of carbon dioxide-equivalent GHG e missions. Monitoring obligations begin in 2010 and reporting obligations begin in March 2011. Some of our facilities include natural gas-fired combustion units that may be subject to the rule. Although this rule does not control GHG emission levels from any facilities, it will still cause us to incur monitoring and reporting costs relating to GHG emissions. Furthermore, EPA plans to propose an additional GHG reporting rule specifically for the oil and gas industry that may impact the crude oil industry and, as a result, affect our business. Legislation and regulations relating to control or reporting of GHG emissions are also in various stages of discussions or implementation in many of the states in which we operate. Passage of climate change legislation or other federal or state legislative or regulatory initiatives that regulate or restrict GHG emissions in areas in which we conduct business or that have the effect of requiring or encouraging reduced consumption or production of crude oil and petroleum-based products could potentially • adversely affect the demand for our products and services; • affect our operations and ability to obtain air permits for new or modified facilities; • increase the costs to operate and maintain our facilities; • increase the costs to install new emission controls on our facilities; • increase the costs of our business by requiring us to acquire allowances to authorize our GHG emissions (e.g., for natural gas-fired combustion units); • increase the costs of our business by requiring us to pay any taxes related to our GHG emissions and/or administer and manage a GHG emissions program; and • increase the cost or availability of goods and services as a result of impacts on entities that provide goods and services to us. In addition to potential impacts on our business directly or indirectly resulting from climate-change legislation or regulations, our business also could be negatively affected by climate-change related physical changes or changes in weather patterns. A loss of coastline in the vicinity of our facilities or an increase in severe weather patterns could result in damages to or loss of our physical assets, impact our ability to conduct operations and/or result in a disruption of our customer’s operations. These climate-change related physical changes could also affect entities that provide goods and services to us and indirectly have an adverse affect on our business as a result of increases in costs or availability of goods and services. Changes of this nature could have a material adverse impact on our business. Please read “Item 1. Business—Environmental, Health and Safety Risks—Climate” for more information. Our business involves many hazards and operational risks, including adverse weather conditions, which could cause us to incur substantial liabilities. Our operations are subject to the many hazards inherent in the transportation and storage of crude oil and the storage and processing of liquid asphalt cement, including: 30 • explosions, fires, accidents, including road and highway accidents involving our tanker trucks; • extreme weather conditions, such as hurricanes which are common in the Gulf Coast and tornadoes and flooding which are common in the Midwest; • damage to our pipelines, storage tanks, terminals and related equipment; • leaks or releases of crude oil into the environment; and • acts of terrorism or vandalism. If any of these events were to occur, we could suffer substantial losses because of personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, and pollution or other environmental damage resulting in curtailment or suspension of our related operations. In addition, mechanical malfunctions, faulty measurement or other errors may result in significant costs or lost revenues. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities are located, which could disrupt our operations. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and crude oil and asphalt facilities have been constructed, and we are therefore subject to the possibility of more onerous terms and/or increased costs to retain necessary land use if we do not have valid rights-of-way or if such rights-of-way or any material real property leases lapse or terminate. We obtain the rights to construct and operate our pipelines and some of our crude oil and asphalt facilities on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. Our loss of these rights, through our inability to renew leases, right-of-way contracts or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. 60;In addition, we are in the process of obtaining consents from the lessors for certain leased property that was transferred to us as part of the acquisition of our asphalt assets. If any consent is denied, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Terrorist attacks, and the threat of terrorist attacks, have resulted in increased costs to our business. Continued hostilities in the Middle East or other sustained military campaigns may adversely impact our results of operations. The long-term impact of terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001, and the threat of future terrorist attacks on our industry in general, and on us in particular, is not known at this time. Uncertainty surrounding continued hostilities in the Middle East or other sustained military campaigns may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of crude oil supplies and markets for our services, and the possibility that infrastructure facilities could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror. Changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks may make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. Moreover, the insurance that may be available to us may be significantly more expensive than our existing insurance coverage. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war could also affect our ability to raise capital. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us Vitol controls our General Partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations. Our General Partner has conflicts of interest with us and limited fiduciary duties, which may permit it to favor its own interests to the detriment of our unitholders. Vitol owns and controls our General Partner. Some of our General Partner’s directors and officers are directors and officers of Vitol. Therefore, conflicts of interest may arise between our General Partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving those conflicts of interest, our General Partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. Although the conflicts committee of the Board may review such conflicts of interest, the Board is not required to submit such matters to the conflicts committee. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: • neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires our General Partner or Vitol to pursue a business strategy that favors us. Such persons may make these decisions in their best interest, which may be contrary to our interests; • our General Partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as Vitol and its affiliates, in resolving conflicts of interest; 31 • if we do not have sufficient available cash from operating surplus, our General Partner could cause us to use cash from non-operating sources, such as asset sales, issuances of securities and borrowings, to pay distributions, which means that we could make distributions that deteriorate our capital base and that our General Partner could receive distributions on its subordinated units and incentive distribution rights to which it would not otherwise be entitled if we did not have sufficient available cash from operating surplus to make such distributions; • Vitol may compete with us, including with respect to future acquisition opportunities; • Vitol may favor its own interests in proposing the terms of any acquisitions we make from it, and such terms may not be as favorable as those we could receive from an unrelated third party; • our General Partner has limited its liability and reduced its fiduciary duties, and has also restricted the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty; • our General Partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership securities and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to unitholders; • our General Partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and whether a capital expenditure is a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or an expansion capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus. This determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders and the ability of the subordinated units to convert to common units; • our General Partner may make a determination to receive a quantity of our Class B units in exchange for resetting the target distribution levels related to its incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of our General Partner or our unitholders; • our General Partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; • our partnership agreement does not restrict our General Partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf; • our General Partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations and, in some circumstances, is entitled to be indemnified by us; • our General Partner may exercise its limited right to call and purchase common units if it and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units; • our General Partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our General Partner and its affiliates; and • our General Partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. Our partnership agreement limits our General Partner’s fiduciary duties to holders of our common units and subordinated units and restricts the remedies available to holders of our common units and subordinated units for actions taken by our General Partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the fiduciary standards to which our General Partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty laws. For example, our partnership agreement: 32 • permits our General Partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our General Partner. This entitles our General Partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any limited partner. Examples include the exercise of its right to receive a quantity of our Class B units in exchange for resetting the target distribution levels related to its incentive distribution rights, the exercise of its limited call right, the exercise of its rights to transfer or vote the units it owns, the exercise of its registration rights and its determination whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership or amendment to the partnership agreement; • provides that our General Partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as it acted in good faith, meaning it believed the decision was in the best interests of our partnership; • generally provides that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the conflicts committee of the Board acting in good faith and not involving a vote of unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or must be “fair and reasonable” to us, as determined by our General Partner in good faith. In determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” our General Partner may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us; • provides that our General Partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our General Partner or its officers and directors acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and • provides that in resolving conflicts of interest, it will be presumed that in making its decision our General Partner acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or us, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. By purchasing a common unit, a common unitholder will become bound by the provisions in the partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above. Vitol may compete with us, which could adversely affect our existing business and limit our ability to acquire additional assets or businesses. Neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement with Vitol prohibits Vitol from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. In addition, Vitol may acquire, construct or dispose of additional midstream or other assets in the future, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase or construct any of those assets. Vitol is a large, international organization and has significantly greater resources and experience than we have, which factors may make it more difficult for us to compete with these entities with respect to commercial activities as well as for acquisition candidates. As a result, competition from these entities could adversely impact our results of operations and cash available for distribution. As a result, competition from Vit ol could adversely impact our results of operations and cash available for distribution. Cost reimbursements due to our General Partner and its affiliates for services provided, which are determined by our General Partner, may be substantial and will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Pursuant to our partnership agreement, our General Partner and its affiliates, including Vitol, are entitled to receive reimbursement for the payment of expenses related to our operations and for the provision of various general and administrative services for our benefit. Payments for these services may be substantial and reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders. In addition, under Delaware partnership law, our General Partner has unlimited liability for our obligations, such as our debts and environmental liabilities, except for our contractual obligations that are expressly made without recourse to our General Partner. To the extent our General Partner incurs obligations on our behalf, we are obligated under our partnership agreement to reimburse or indemnify our General Partner. If w e are unable or unwilling to reimburse or indemnify our General Partner, our General Partner may take actions to cause us to make payments of these obligations and liabilities. Any such payments would reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders. Please see “Item 13—Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions, and Director Independence—Agreements Related to Our Acquisition of the Asphalt Assets—Amended Omnibus Agreement.” 33 Holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our General Partner or its directors. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders did not elect our general partner or the Board, and have no right to elect our general partner or the Board on an annual or other continuing basis. The Board is chosen by Vitol. Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our General Partner, they have little ability to remove our general partner. Amendments to our partnership agreement may be proposed only by or with the consent of our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Removal of our General Partner without its consent will dilute and adversely affect our common unitholders. If our General Partner is removed without cause during the subordination period and units held by our General Partner and its affiliates are not voted in favor of that removal, all remaining subordinated units will automatically convert into common units and any existing arrearages on our common units will be extinguished. A removal of our General Partner under these circumstances would adversely affect our common units by prematurely eliminating their distribution and liquidation preference over our subordinated units, which would otherwise have continued until we had met certain distribution and performance tests. Cause is narrowly defined to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding the General Partner liable for actual fraud or willful or wanton misconduct in its capacity as our General Partner. Cause does not include most cases of charges of poor management of the business, so the removal of the General Partner because of the unitholders’ dissatisfaction with our General Partner’s performance in managing our partnership will most likely result in the termination of the subordination period and conversion of all subordinated units to common units. Control of our General Partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our General Partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of Vitol, the owner of our General Partner, from transferring all or a portion of its ownership interest in our General Partner to a third party. The new owner of our General Partner would then be in a position to replace the Board and officers of our General Partner with its own choices and thereby influence the decisions made by the Board and officers. We may issue additional units without approval of our unitholders, which would dilute our unitholders’ ownership interests. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number or price of additional limited partner interests (including any securities of equal or senior rank to our common units, and options, rights, warrants and appreciation rights relating to any such securities) that we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. In addition, because we are a limited partnership, we will not be subject to the shareholder approval requirements relating to the issuance of securities (other than in connection with the establishment or material amendment of a stock option or purchase plan or the making or material amendment of any other equity compensation arrangement) contained in Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 5635 if we are again listed on Nasdaq. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity secu rities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: • our unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; • because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase; • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and • the market price of the common units may decline. 34 Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders, other than our General Partner and its affiliates, including Vitol, owning 20% or more of our common units. Unitholders’ voting rights are further restricted by the partnership agreement provision providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our General Partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the Board, cannot vote on any matter. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions. Affiliates of our General Partner may sell common units in the public markets, which sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units. As of March 19, 2010, the named executive officers and directors of our General Partner beneficially own an aggregate of 346,277 common units and Vitol owns 12,570,504 subordinated units. All of the subordinated units will convert into common units at the end of the subordination period and may convert earlier. The sale of these units in the public markets could have an adverse impact on the price of the common units or on any trading market that may develop. Our General Partner has a limited call right that may require our unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our General Partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units, our General Partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. As a result, our unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. Our unitholders also may incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units. At the end of the subordination period, assuming no additional issuances of common units and no sales of subordinated units, our General Partner and its affiliates (excluding executive officers and directors) will own 36.7% of the comm on units. Common units held by persons who are not Eligible Holders will be subject to the possibility of redemption. The Longview system is, and any additional interstate pipelines that we acquire or construct may be, subject to the rate regulation of the FERC. Our General Partner has the right under our partnership agreement to institute procedures, by giving notice to each of our unitholders, that would require transferees of common units and, upon the request of our General Partner, existing holders of our common units to certify that they are Eligible Holders. The purpose of these certification procedures would be to enable us to utilize a federal income tax expense as a component of the pipeline’s cost of service upon which tariffs may be established under FERC rate-making policies applicable to entities that pass through their taxable income to their owners. Eligible Holders are individuals or entities subject to Uni ted States federal income taxation on the income generated by us or entities not subject to United States federal income taxation on the income generated by us, so long as all of the entity’s owners are subject to such taxation. If these tax certification procedures are implemented, we will have the right to redeem the common units held by persons who are not Eligible Holders at the lesser of the holder’s purchase price and the then-current market price of the units. The redemption price would be paid in cash or by delivery of a promissory note, as determined by our General Partner. Our unitholders’ liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. 35 Our unitholders could be liable for our obligations as if they were a general partner if: • a court or government agency determined that we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state’s partnership statute; or • a unitholder’s right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace the general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitute “control” of our business. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 and 17-804 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution to our unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Substituted limited partners are liable for the obligations of the assignor to make contributions to the partnership that are known to the substituted limited partner at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from the partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders Our unitholders have been and will be required to pay taxes on their share of our taxable income even if they have not or do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders are treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, they will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income, even if our unitholders receive no cash distributions from us. In this regard, we did not pay a distribution to our unitholders for the quarter ended June 30, 2008 through the quarter ended December 31, 2009. In addition, we do not expect to make a distribution relating to the first quarter of 2010 and may not be able to make distributions in the future. Thus, our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from their share of our taxable income. Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation or if we were to become subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on us being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If less than 90% of the gross income of a publicly traded partnership, such as us, for any taxable year is “qualifying income” from sources such as the transportation, marketing (other than to end users), or processing of crude oil, natural gas or products thereof, interest, dividends or similar sources, that partnership will be taxable as a corporation under Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code for federal income tax purposes for that taxable year and all subsequent years. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, then we would pay federal income tax on our income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and would likely pay additional state income tax at varying rates. Distributions would generally be taxed again to unitholders as corporate distributions and none of our income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as an entity, cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to unitholders and thus would likely result in a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. 36 Current law may change, so as to cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation. In addition, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. For example, we are required to pay annually a Texas franchise tax at a maximum effective rate of 0.7% of our gross income apportioned to Texas with respect to the prior year. Imposition of such a tax on us by Texas and, if applicable, by any other state will reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders. The partnership agreement provides th at if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts will be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. Any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. Moreover, any such modification could make it more difficult or impossible for us to meet the exception which allows publicly traded partnerships that generate qualifying income to be treated as partnerships (rather than corporations) for U.S. federal income tax purposes, affect or cause us to change our business activities, or affect the tax consequences of an investment in our common units. For example, members of Congress have been considering substantive changes to the definition of qualifying income and the treatment of certain types of income earned from profits interests in partnerships. While these specific proposals would not appear to affect our tax treatment as a partnership, we are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals, will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. If the IRS contests any of the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely affected, and the costs of any contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the conclusions of our counsel. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, the costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our General Partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If our unitholders sell their common units, they will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units. Prior distributions to our unitholders in excess of the total net taxable income our unitholders were allocated for a common unit, which decreased their tax basis in that common unit, will, in effect, become taxable income to our unitholders if the common unit is sold at a price greater than their tax basis in that common unit, even if the price our unitholders receive is less than their original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income to the selling unitholder due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the a mount realized includes a unitholder’s share of our non-recourse liabilities, a unitholder who sells units may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash received from the sale. As a result of the foregoing, unitholders who sell their units may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash they receive from the sale. 37 Tax-exempt entities, regulated investment companies and foreign persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), pension plans, regulated investment companies (known as mutual funds), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations exempt from federal income tax, including individual retirement accounts and qualified retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file United States federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If a potential unitholder is a tax-exempt entity or a foreign person, it should consult its tax ad visor before investing in our common units. We will treat each purchaser of units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the specific units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we will adopt depreciation and/or amortization positions that may not conform with all aspects of existing Treasury regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from their sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated for federal income tax purposes if there are one or more transfers of interests in our partnership that together represent a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. For these purposes, • multiple transfers of the same interest within a twelve month period will be counted only once; and • if Vitol sells or exchanges its interests in our General Partner, the interests held by our General Partner in us will be deemed to have been sold or exchanged. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead, we would be treated as a new partnership for tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections if we were to fail to recognize and report on our tax return that a termination occurred, we could be subject to penalties. 38 Our unitholders likely will be subject to state and local taxes and return filing or withholding requirements in states in which they do not live as a result of investing in our common units. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, such as state and local income taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance, or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property. Our unitholders may be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in certain of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We own property and conduct business in Texas, Oklahoma, Kansas, Colorado, New Mexico, Arkansas, California, Georgia, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Missouri, Michigan, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Jersey, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Utah, Virginia and Washington. Of these states, Texas does not currently impose a state income tax on individuals. We may own property or conduct business in other states or foreign countries in the future. It is each unitholder’s responsibility to file all federal, state and local tax returns. Under the tax laws of some states where we will conduct business, we may be required to withhold a percentage from amounts to be distributed to a unitholder who is not a resident of that state. For example, in the case of Oklahoma, we are required to either report detailed tax information about our non-Oklahoma resident unitholders with an income in Oklahoma in excess of $500 to the taxing authority, or withhold an amount equal to 5% of the portion of our distributions to unitholders which is deemed to be the Oklahoma share of our income. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion on the state and local tax consequences of an investment in our common units. We have transferred certain assets located at certain of our asphalt facilities and which could generate non-qualifying income to a subsidiary taxed as a corporation. Such subsidiary is subject to entity level federal and state income taxes on its net taxable income and, if a material amount of entity-level taxes were incurred, then our cash available for distribution to our unitholders could be substantially reduced. We have entered into storage contracts and leases with third party customers with respect to substantially all of our asphalt facilities. At the time of entering into such agreements, it was unclear under current tax law as to whether the rental income from the leases, and whether the fees attributable to certain of the processing services we provide under certain of the storage contracts, constitute “qualifying income.” In the second quarter of 2009, we submitted a request for a ruling from the IRS that rental income from the leases constitutes “qualifying income.” In October 2009, we received a favorable ruling from the IRS. As part of this ruling, however, we agreed to transfer, and have transferred, certain of our asphalt processing assets and related fee income, to a subsidiary taxed a s a corporation. Such subsidiary will be required to pay federal income tax on its income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and will likely pay state (and possibly local) income tax at varying rates. Distributions from such subsidiary will generally be taxed again to unitholders as corporate distributions and none of the income, gains, losses, deductions or credits of such subsidiary will flow through to our unitholders. If a material amount of entity-level taxes are incurred by such subsidiary, then our cash available for distribution to its unitholders could be substantially reduced. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations, and, accordingly, our counsel is unable to opine as to the validity of this method. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. 39 A unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, he may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion regarding the treatment of a unitholder where common units are loaned to a sho rt seller to cover a short sale of common units; therefore, unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 