Item 1A. Risk Factors RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Our plans to build additional plants and to improve and upgrade our internal control and management system will require capital expenditures in 2008. Our plans to build additional plants and to improve and upgrade our internal control and management system will require significant capital expenditures in 2008. We may also need further funding for working capital, investments, potential acquisitions and joint ventures and other corporate requirements. We cannot assure you that cash generated from our operations will be sufficient to fund these development plans, or that our actual capital expenditures and investments will not significantly exceed our current planned amounts. If either of these conditions arises, we may have to seek external financing to satisfy our capital needs. Our ability to obtain external financing at reasonable costs is subject to a variety of uncertainties. Failure to obtain sufficient external funds for our development plans could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating performance. Three customer orders consisted of 31.75% of the net sales of the Company for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, and the loss of any of these three customers can result in a depressive effect on our net profit. Our Company focuses on large projects for large Chinese customers. In this regard, during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, three Chinese customers orders consisted of 31.75% of the net sales of the Company. Should we lose any of these three customers in the future and are unable to obtain additional customers, our revenues will decrease. We may experience major accidents in the course of our operations, which may cause significant property damage and personal injuries. Significant industry-related accidents and natural disasters may cause interruptions to various parts of our operations, or could result in property or environmental damage, increase in operating expenses or loss of revenue. The occurrence of such accidents and the resulting consequences may not be covered adequately, or at all, by the insurance policies we carry. In accordance with customary practice in China, we do not carry any business interruption insurance or third party liability insurance for personal injury or environmental damage arising from accidents on our property or relating to our operations other than our automobiles. Losses or payments incurred may have a material adverse effect on our operating performance if such losses or payments are not fully insured. - 17 - Our planned expansion and technical improvement projects could be delayed or adversely affected by, among other things, failures to receive regulatory approvals, difficulties in obtaining sufficient financing, technical difficulties, or human or other resource constraints. We intend to build up to three new production facilities during the next two years. The costs projected for our planned expansion and technical improvement projects and expansion may exceed those originally contemplated. Costs savings and other economic benefits expected from these projects may not materialize as a result of any such project delays, cost overruns or changes in market circumstances. To make improvement at our currently existing plants, we do not need to apply for regulatory approval. However, in order to build a new concrete plant, we will need to (i) apply for a business license from the local Administration of Industry and Commerce, (ii) apply for an Industry Qualification Certificate from the local Municipal Construction Committee, and (iii) receive environmental approval from the local Environmental Protection Bureau in the relevant district area. There is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain these regulatory approvals in a timely manner or at all. Additionally, in order to construct a new concrete plant, we will need to apply for a short term loan from a local commercial bank to be used for working capital. Because the lending policies of the local commercial banks are subject to change, there is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain approval for such a loan with conditions favorable to us in a timely manner or at all. Failure to obtain intended economic benefits from these new plants and technical improvements projects, either due to cost overruns, our failure to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals or our failure to obtain necessary loan financing on terms favorable to us could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating performances. We cannot assure you that our growth strategy will be successful. One of our strategies is to grow through increasing the distribution and sales of our products by penetrating existing markets in China and entering new geographic markets in China. However, many obstacles to entering such new markets exist including, but not limited to, competition from established companies in such existing markets in the China. We cannot, therefore, assure you that we will be able to successfully overcome such obstacles and establish our products in any additional markets. Our inability to implement this growth strategy successfully may have a negative impact on our growth, future financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. If we fail to effectively manage our growth and expand our operations, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected. Our future success depends on our ability to expand our business to address growth in demand for our products and services. In order to maximize potential growth in our current and potential markets, we believe that we must expand our manufacturing and marketing operations. Our ability to accomplish these goals is subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including: · the need for additional funding to construct additional manufacturing facilities, which we may be unable to obtain on reasonable terms or at all; · delays and cost overruns as a result of a number of factors, many of which may be beyond our control, such as problems with equipment vendors and manufacturing services provided by third-party manufacturers or subcontractors; · our receipt of any necessary government approvals or permits that may be required to expand our operations in a timely manner or at all; · diversion of significant management attention and other resources; and · failure to execute our expansion plan effectively. - 18 - To accommodate our growth, we will need to implement a variety of new and upgraded operational and financial systems, procedures, and controls, including improvements to our accounting and other internal management systems, by dedicating additional resources to our reporting and accounting function, and improvements to our record keeping and contract tracking system. We will also need to recruit more personnel and train and manage our growing employee base. Furthermore, our management will be required to maintain and expand our relationships with our existing customers and find new customers for our services. There is no guarantee that our management can succeed in maintaining and expanding these relationships. If we encounter any of the risks described above, or if we are otherwise unable to establish or successfully operate additional capacity or increase our output, we may be unable to grow our business and revenues, reduce our operating costs, maintain our competitiveness or improve our profitability and, consequently, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects will be adversely affected. If we are unable to accurately estimate the overall risks or costs associated with a project on which we are bidding on, we may achieve a profit lower than anticipated or even incur a loss on the contract. Substantially all of our revenues and contract backlog are typically derived from fixed unit price contracts. Fixed unit price contracts require us to perform the contract for a fixed unit price irrespective of our actual costs. As a result, we realize a profit on these contracts only if we successfully estimate our costs and then successfully control actual costs and avoid cost overruns. If our cost estimates for a contract are inaccurate, or if we do not execute the contract within our cost estimates, then cost overruns may cause the contract not to be as profitable as we expected, or may cause us to incur losses. This, in turn, could negatively affect our cash flow, earnings and financial position. The costs incurred and gross profit realized on those contracts can vary, sometimes substantially, from the original projections due to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to: · onsite conditions that differ from those assumed in the original bid; · delays caused by weather conditions; · later contract start dates than expected when we bid the contract; · contract modifications creating unanticipated costs not covered by change orders; · changes in availability, proximity and costs of materials, including steel, concrete, aggregate and other construction materials (such as stone, gravel and sand), as well as fuel and lubricants for our equipment; · availability and skill level of workers in the geographic location of a project; · our suppliers’ or subcontractors’ failure to perform; · fraud or theft committed by our employees; · mechanical problems with our machinery or equipment; · citations issued by governmental authorities · difficulties in obtaining required governmental permits or approvals; - 19 - · changes in applicable laws and regulations; and · claims or demands from third parties alleging damages arising from our work or from the project of which our work is part. Economic downturns or reductions in government funding of infrastructure projects could significantly reduce our revenues. Our business is highly dependent on the amount of infrastructure work funded by various governmental entities, which, in turn, depends on the overall condition of the economy, the need for new or replacement infrastructure, the priorities placed on various projects funded by governmental entities and national or local government spending levels. Decreases in government funding of infrastructure projects could decrease the number of civil construction contracts available and limit our ability to obtain new contracts, which could reduce our revenues and profits. Our business will be damaged if project contracts with the Chinese government, for which we may act as a subcontractor are cancelled; We do not enter into any contracts directly with the Chinese government. For contracts that are funded by the Chinese government, we place bids and enter into subcontracts with the private entity prime contractor. A sudden cancellation of a prime contract, and in turn our subcontract, could cause our equipment and work crews to remain idle for a significant period of time until other comparable work becomes available. This idle time could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our industry is highly competitive, with numerous larger companies with greater resources competing with us, and our failure to compete effectively could reduce the number of new contracts awarded to us or adversely affect our margins on contracts awarded. Our competition includes a number of PRC-based manufacturers and distributors that produce and sell products similar to ours. We compete primarily on the basis of quality, technological innovation and price. Our main competitors include Jiangong Shanggong Center, Jinyu Group Concrete, Zhuzong Shanggong Center and Zhonghang Konggang Concrete. Essentially all of the contracts on which we bid are awarded through a competitive bid process, with awards generally being made to the lowest bidder, though other factors such as shorter contract schedules or prior experience with the customer are often just as important. Within our markets, we compete with many national, regional and local construction firms. Some of these competitors have achieved greater market penetration or have greater financial and other resources than us. In addition, there are a number of larger national companies in our industry that could potentially establish a presence in our markets and compete with us for contracts. As a result, we may need to accept lower contract margins in order to compete against these competitors. If we are unable to compete successfully in our markets, our relative market share and profits could be reduced. We could face increased competition in our principal market. Our principal market, Beijing, has enjoyed stronger economic growth and a higher demand for construction than other regions of China. As a result, we believe that competitors will try to expand their sales and build up their distribution networks in our principal market. We anticipate that this trend will continue and likely accelerate. Increased competition may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our dependence on subcontractors and suppliers of materials could increase our costs and impair our ability to compete on contracts on a timely basis or at all, which would adversely affect our profits and cash flow. We rely on third-party subcontractors to perform some of the work on many of our contracts. We do not bid on contracts unless we have the necessary subcontractors committed for the anticipated scope of the contract and at prices that we have included in our bid. Therefore, to the extent that we cannot obtain third-party subcontractors, our profits and cash flow will suffer. Risk factor to address the risks relating to receiving regulatory approvals and obtaining sufficient financing. Our planned expansion and technical improvement projects could be delayed or adversely affected by, among other things, failures to receive regulatory approvals, difficulties in obtaining sufficient financing, technical difficulties, or human or other resource constraints. We intend to build up to three new production facilities during the next two years. The costs projected for our planned expansion and technical improvement projects and expansion may exceed those originally contemplated. Costs savings and other economic benefits expected from these projects may not materialize as a result of any such project delays, cost overruns or changes in market circumstances. - 20 - To make improvement at our currently existing plants, we do not need to apply for regulatory approval. However, in order to build a new concrete plant, we will need to (i) apply for a business license from the local Administration of Industry and Commerce, (ii) apply for an Industry Qualification Certificate from the local Municipal Construction Committee, and (iii) receive environmental approval from the local Environmental Protection Bureau in the relevant district area. There is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain these regulatory approvals in a timely manner or at all. Additionally, in order to construct a new concrete plant, we will need to apply for a short term loan from a local commercial bank to be used for working capital. Because the lending policies of the local commercial banks are subject to change, there is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain approval for such a loan with conditions favorable to us in a timely manner or at all. Failure to obtain intended economic benefits from these new plants and technical improvements projects, either due to cost overruns, our failure to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals or our failure to obtain necessary loan financing on terms favorable to us could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating performances. We may be exposed to liabilities under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and any determination that we violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practice Act, or FCPA, and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by U.S. persons and issuers as defined by the statute for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have operations, agreements with third parties and make sales in China, which may experience corruption. Our activities in China create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of the employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors of our Company, even though these parties are not always subject to our control. It is our policy to implement safeguards to discourage these practices by our employees. However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and the employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors of our Company may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the government may seek to hold our Company liable for successor liability FCPA violations committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquire. We depend heavily on key personnel, and turnover of key employees and senior management could harm our business. Our future business and results of operations depend in significant part upon the continued contributions of our key technical and senior management personnel, including Xianfu Han, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Weili He, our Vice-Chairman and Chief Operating Officer. They also depend in significant part upon our ability to attract and retain additional qualified management, technical, operational and support personnel for our operations. If we lose a key employee, if a key employee fails to perform in his or her current position, or if we are not able to attract and retain skilled employees as needed, our business could suffer. Significant turnover in our senior management could significantly deplete the institutional knowledge held by our existing senior management team. We depend on the skills and abilities of these key employees in managing the reclamation, technical, and marketing aspects of our business, any part of which could be harmed by turnover in the future. Certain of our existing stockholders have substantial influence over our company, and their interests may not be aligned with the interests of our other stockholders. Our Chairman, Xianfu Han, owns approximately 50.22% of our outstanding voting securities and our Vice-Chairman, Weili He, owns approximately 33.48% of our outstanding voting securities. As a result, each have significant influence over our business, including decisions regarding mergers, consolidations, liquidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a future change of control, which could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our shares. We may require additional capital and we may not be able to obtain it on acceptable terms or at all. We believe that our current cash and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our present cash needs. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If these resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain additional credit facilities. The sale of additional equity securities could result in dilution to our stockholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could require us to agree to operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. Our ability to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: - 21 - · investors’ perception of, and demand for, securities of Chinese-based companies involved in construction supply or concrete industries; · conditions of the U.S. and other capital markets in which we may seek to raise funds; · our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows; and · economic, political and other conditions in China. Financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Any failure by us to raise additional funds on terms favorable to us, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be exposed to potential risks relating to our internal controls over financial reporting and our ability to have those controls attested to by our independent auditors. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or SOX 404, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal controls over financial reporting in their annual reports, including Form 10-K. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing a company’s financial statements must also attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting as well as the operating effectiveness of the company’s internal controls. We were not subject to these requirements for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, accordingly we have not evaluated our internal control systems in order to allow our management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, our internal controls as required by these requirements of SOX 404. Under current law, we will be subject to these requirements beginning with our annual report for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2009, although the auditor attestation will not be required until our annual report for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2010. We can provide no assurance that we will comply with all of the requirements imposed thereby. There can be no positive assurance that we will receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors. In the event we identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls that we cannot remediate in a timely manner or we are unable to receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors with respect to our internal controls, investors and others may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could impede the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and damage our business. We conduct all of our operations and generate all of our revenue in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: · the higher level of government involvement; · the early stage of development of the market-oriented sector of the economy; · the rapid growth rate; - 22 - · the higher level of control over foreign exchange; and · the allocation of resources. As the PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy, the PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. While these measures may benefit the overall PRC economy, they may also have a negative effect on us. Although the PRC government has in recent years implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the PRC government continues to exercise significant control over economic growth in China through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and imposing policies that impact particular industries or companies in different ways. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth and the level of new construction investments and expenditures in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our services and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit the legal protections available to you and us. We conduct substantially all of our business through our operating subsidiary in the PRC. Our operating subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes, and prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, a series of new PRC laws and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to you and us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. In addition, all of our executive officers and all of our directors are residents of China and not of the United States, and substantially all the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it could be difficult for investors to affect service of process in the United States or to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against our Chinese operations and subsidiaries. The PRC government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. The PRC government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of the jurisdictions in which we operate may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures. - 23 - A slowdown or other adverse developments in the PRC economy may materially and adversely affect our customers, demand for our services and our business. We are a holding company. All of our operations are conducted in the PRC and all of our revenues are generated from sales in the PRC. Although the PRC economy has grown significantly in recent years, we cannot assure you that such growth will continue. A slowdown in overall economic growth, an economic downturn or recession or other adverse economic developments in the PRC may materially reduce the demand for new construction projects and adversely affect our business. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our sales revenue effectively. Most of our sales revenue and expenses are denominated in RMB. Under PRC law, the RMB is currently convertible under the “current account,” which includes dividends and trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account,” which includes foreign direct investment and loans. Currently, our PRC operating subsidiary may purchase foreign currencies for settlement of current account transactions, including payments of dividends to us, without the approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, the relevant PRC government authorities may limit or eliminate our ability to purchase foreign currencies in the future. Since a significant amount of our future revenue will be denominated in RMB, any existing and future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize revenue generated in RMB to fund our business activities outside China that are denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign exchange transactions by PRC operating subsidiaries under the capital account continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of or need to register with PRC government authorities, including SAFE. In particular, if our PRC operating subsidiaries borrow foreign currency through loans from us or other foreign lenders, these loans must be registered with SAFE, and if we finance the subsidiaries by means of additional capital contributions, these capital contributions must be approved by certain government authorities, including the Ministry of Commerce, or MOFCOM, or their respective local counterparts. These limitations could affect their ability to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing. PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents, if applied to us, may subject our PRC resident stockholders to personal liability and limit our ability to acquire PRC companies or to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us or otherwise materially adversely affect us. In October 2005, SAFE issued the Notice on Relevant Issues in the Foreign Exchange Control over Financing and Return Investment Through Special Purpose Companies by Residents Inside China, or the SAFE Notice. The SAFE Notice requires PRC residents to register with the appropriate local SAFE branch before using assets or equity interests in their PRC entities to capitalize offshore special purpose companies, or SPVs, or to raise capital overseas. A SAFE registration must be amended by a PRC resident if the SPV undergoes a significant event, such as a change in share capital, share transfer, merger, acquisition, spin-off transaction or use of assets in China to guarantee offshore obligations. Moreover, if the SPV was established and owned the onshore assets or equity interests before the implementation of the SAFE Notice, a retroactive SAFE registration is required to have been completed before March 31, 2006. Our PRC resident shareholders have filed their SAFE registration with the local SAFE branch which has indicated to us that the registrations comply with applicable laws. However, we cannot provide any assurances that their existing registration have fully complied with, and they have made necessary amendments to their registration to fully comply with, all applicable registrations or approvals required by this SAFE Notice. - 24 - Moreover, because of uncertainty over how the SAFE Notice will be interpreted and implemented, and how or whether SAFE will apply it to us, we cannot predict how it will affect our business operations or future strategies. For example, our present and prospective PRC subsidiaries’ ability to conduct foreign exchange activities, such as the remittance of dividends and foreign currency-denominated borrowings, may be subject to compliance with the SAFE Notice by our PRC resident beneficial holders. In addition, such PRC residents may not always be able to complete the necessary registration procedures required by the SAFE Notice. We also have little control over either our present or prospective direct or indirect stockholders or the outcome of such registration procedures. A failure by our PRC resident beneficial holders or future PRC resident stockholders to comply with the SAFE Notice, if SAFE requires it, could subject these PRC resident beneficial holders to fines or legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, which could adversely affect our business and prospects. We may be unable to complete a business combination transaction efficiently or on favorable terms due to complicated merger and acquisition regulations implemented on September 8, 2006. The recent PRC Regulation on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Companies by Foreign Investors also governs the approval process by which a PRC company may participate in an acquisition of its assets or its equity interests. Depending on the structure of the transaction, the new regulation will require the Chinese parties to make a series of applications and supplemental applications to the government agencies. In some instances, the application process may require the presentation of economic data concerning a transaction, including appraisals of the target business and evaluations of the acquirer, which are designed to allow the government to assess the transaction. Government approvals will have expiration dates by which a transaction must be completed and reported to the government agencies. Compliance with the new regulations is likely to be more time consuming and expensive than in the past and the government can now exert more control over the combination of two businesses. Accordingly, due to the new regulation, our ability to engage in business combination transactions has become significantly more complicated, time consuming and expensive, and we may not be able to negotiate a transaction that is acceptable to our stockholders or sufficiently protect their interests in a transaction. The new regulation allows PRC government agencies to assess the economic terms of a business combination transaction. Parties to a business combination transaction may have to submit to MOFCOM and the other government agencies an appraisal report, an evaluation report and the acquisition agreement, all of which form part of the application for approval, depending on the structure of the transaction. The regulations also prohibit a transaction at an acquisition price obviously lower than the appraised value of the Chinese business or assets and in certain transaction structures, require that consideration must be paid within defined periods, generally not in excess of a year . The regulation also limits our ability to negotiate various terms of the acquisition, including aspects of the initial consideration, contingent consideration, holdback provisions, indemnification provisions and provisions relating to the assumption and allocation of assets and liabilities. Transaction structures involving trusts, nominees and similar entities are prohibited. Therefore, such regulation may impede our ability to negotiate and complete a business combination transaction on financial terms that satisfy our investors and protect our stockholders’ economic interests. Fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our business and the value of our securities. The value of our common stock will be indirectly affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and RMB and between those currencies and other currencies in which our sales may be denominated. Because substantially all of our earnings and cash assets are denominated in RMB and the net proceeds from this offering will be denominated in U.S. dollars, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the RMB will affect the relative purchasing power of these proceeds, our balance sheet and our earnings per share in U.S. dollars following this offering. In addition, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the RMB relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we issue after this offering that will be exchanged into U.S. dollars and earnings from, and the value of, any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future. - 25 - Since July 2005, the RMB has no longer been pegged to the U.S. dollar. Although the People’s Bank of China regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate, the RMB may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the medium to long term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future PRC authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the RMB exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign exchange market. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these transactions may be limited, and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our foreign currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into foreign currencies. Currently, some of our raw materials and major equipment are imported. In the event that the U.S. dollars appreciate against RMB, our costs will increase. If we cannot pass the resulting cost increases on to our customers, our profitability and operating results will suffer. RISKS RELATED TO THE MARKET FOR OUR STOCK GENERALLY Our shares of common stock are very thinly traded, and there can be no assurance that there will be an active market for our shares of common stock in the future. Our shares of common stock are very thinly traded, and the price if traded may not reflect our value. There can be no assurance that there will be an active market for our shares of common stock in the future. The market liquidity will be dependent on the perception of our operating business and any steps that our management might take to bring us to the awareness of investors. There can be no assurance given that there will be any awareness generated. Consequently, investors may not be able to liquidate their investment or liquidate it at a price that reflects the value of the business. If a more active market should develop, the price may be highly volatile. Because there may be a low price for our shares of common stock, many brokerage firms may not be willing to effect transactions in the securities. Even if an investor finds a broker willing to effect a transaction in the shares of our common stock, the combination of brokerage commissions, transfer fees, taxes, if any, and any other selling costs may exceed the selling price. Further, many lending institutions will not permit the use of such shares of common stock as collateral for any loans. We do not intend to pay dividends on shares of our common stock for the foreseeable future, but if we intend to do so our holding company structure may limit the payment of dividends to our stockholders. We have no direct business operations, other than our ownership of our subsidiaries. While we have no current intention of paying dividends, should we decide in the future to do so, as a holding company, our ability to pay dividends and meet other obligations depends upon the receipt of dividends or other payments from our operating subsidiaries and other holdings and investments. In addition, our operating subsidiaries, from time to time, may be subject to restrictions on their ability to make distributions to us, including as a result of restrictive covenants in loan agreements, restrictions on the conversion of local currency into U.S. dollars or other hard currency and other regulatory restrictions as discussed below. If future dividends are paid in RMB, fluctuations in the exchange rate for the conversion of RMB into U.S. dollars may reduce the amount received by U.S. stockholders upon conversion of the dividend payment into U.S. dollars. Chinese regulations currently permit the payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. Our subsidiaries in China are also required to set aside a portion of their after tax profits according to Chinese accounting standards and regulations to fund certain reserve funds. Currently, our subsidiaries in China are the only sources of revenues or investment holdings for the payment of dividends. If they do not accumulate sufficient profits under Chinese accounting standards and regulations to first fund certain reserve funds as required by Chinese accounting standards, we will be unable to pay any dividends. - 26 - We may be subject to penny stock regulations and restrictions and you may have difficulty selling shares of our common stock. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define so-called “penny stocks” to be an equity security that has a market price less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exemptions. If our common stock becomes a “penny stock”, we may become subject to Rule 15g-9 under the Exchange Act, or the “Penny Stock Rule”. This rule imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell such securities to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors” (generally, individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual incomes exceeding $200,000, or $300,000 together with their spouses). For transactions covered by Rule 15g-9, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to sale. As a result, this rule may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and may affect the ability of purchasers to sell any of our securities in the secondary market. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require delivery, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule prepared by the SEC relating to the penny stock market. Disclosure is also required to be made about sales commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. Finally, monthly statements are required to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stock. There can be no assurance that our common stock will qualify for exemption from the Penny Stock Rule. In any event, even if our common stock were exempt from the Penny Stock Rule, we would remain subject to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act, which gives the SEC the authority to restrict any person from participating in a distribution of penny stock, if the SEC finds that such a restriction would be in the public interest. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 