Item 1A. Risk FactorsWe operate in a dynamic environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties. The following section describes some of the risks that may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, and the trading price of our common stock; these risks are not necessarily listed in terms of their importance or level of risk.Risks relating to our business and industry:We may not be able to achieve our key initiatives and grow our business as anticipated. While we currently intend to grow our business by pursuing key initiatives to broaden our product platform through internal development and acquisitions; increase our sales capacity by expanding our direct sales organization and developing our channel partnerships; expand our scale through system integrators; and employ marketing programs to increase awareness of our company and our big data products among existing and prospective customers, we may not be able to achieve these key initiatives. Our success depends on our ability to: appropriately manage our expenses as we grow our organization; identify or acquire companies or assets at attractive valuations; enter into and maintain beneficial channel relationships; develop new products; and successfully execute our marketing and sales strategies. If we are not able to execute on these actions, our business may not grow as we anticipated, and our operating results could be adversely affected. As we expand our software product portfolio, we will face increased competition as part of entering new markets.The market for our products is competitive, and we expect competition to increase in the future as we expand our product portfolio and features. We may not compete successfully against future potential competitors, especially those with significantly greater financial resources or brand name recognition. For example, we our latest products to compete with sales enablement, configure-price-quote and rebate management software, and through Cameleon we now compete in with configure-price-quote software. Large companies in these spaces may have advantages over us because of their longer operating histories, greater brand name recognition, larger customer bases, broader product portfolios, or greater financial, technical and marketing resources. As a result, they may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. If our new products and product enhancements do not achieve sufficient market acceptance, our results of operations and competitive position could suffer. We spend substantial amounts of time and money to research and develop new products and enhance versions of our products. In addition, we introduced new releases of certain products. We introduce new products and incorporate additional features, improve functionality or add other enhancements to our existing products in order to meet our customers' demands. Our new products or enhancements could fail to attain sufficient market acceptance for many reasons, including: •delays in introducing new, enhanced or modified products;•defects, errors or failures in any of our products;•inability to operate effectively with the networks of our prospective customers;•inability to protect against new types of attacks or techniques used by hackers;•negative publicity about the performance or effectiveness of our network security products;•reluctance of customers to purchase products based on open source software; and•disruptions or delays in the availability and delivery of our products.10Table of ContentsIf our new products or enhancements do not achieve adequate acceptance in the market, our competitive position could be impaired, our revenue will be diminished and the effect on our operating results may be particularly acute because of the significant research, development, marketing, sales and other expenses we incurred in connection with the new product. We focus primarily on big data sales, pricing and revenue management software, and if the market for this software develops more slowly than we expect, our business will be harmed.We derive most of our revenue from providing our sales, pricing and revenue management software solutions, implementation services and ongoing customer support. The sales, pricing and revenue management software market is still evolving, and it is uncertain whether this software will achieve and sustain high levels of demand and market acceptance. Our success will depend on the willingness of businesses in the manufacturing, distribution, services, and travel industries to use sales, pricing and revenue management software.Some businesses may be reluctant or unwilling to implement sales, pricing and revenue management software for a number of reasons, including failure to understand the potential returns of improving their processes and lack of knowledge about the potential benefits that such software may provide. Even if businesses recognize the need for improved pricing processes, they may not select our sales, pricing and revenue management software solutions because they previously have made investments in internally developed sales, pricing and revenue management solutions. Some businesses may elect to improve their pricing processes through solutions obtained from their existing enterprise software providers, whose solutions are designed principally to address one or more functional areas other than pricing. These enterprise solutions may appeal to customers that wish to limit the number of software vendors on which they rely and the number of different types of solutions used to run their businesses.If businesses do not embrace the benefits of sales, pricing and revenue management software, the sales, pricing and revenue management software market may not continue to develop or may develop more slowly than we expect, either of which would significantly and adversely affect our revenue and operating results. Because the sales, pricing and revenue management software market is developing and the manner of its development is difficult to predict, we may make errors in predicting and reacting to relevant business trends, which could harm our operating results.Competition from vendors of big data sales, pricing, revenue management and configure-price-quote solutions and enterprise applications as well as from companies internally developing their own solutions could adversely affect our ability to sell our software solutions and could result in pressure to price our software solutions in a manner that reduces our margins and harms our operating results.The sales, pricing, revenue management and configure-price-quote software market is competitive, fragmented and rapidly evolving. Our software solutions compete with both solutions developed internally by businesses as well as those solutions offered by competitors. Our principal competition consists of:•pricing, quoting, rebate and revenue management software vendors, including a number of vendors that provide such software for specific industries; and•large enterprise application providers that have developed offerings that include sales, pricing and revenue management functionality.We expect additional competition from other established and emerging companies to the extent the sales, pricing, revenue management and configure-price-quote software market continues to develop and expand. We also expect competition to increase as a result of the entrance of new competitors in the market and industry consolidation, including through a merger or partnership of two or more of our competitors or the acquisition of a competitor by a larger company, such as Oracle through its recent acquisition of BigMachines. A number of our current and potential competitors have larger installed bases of users, longer operating histories and greater name recognition than we have. In addition, many of these companies have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, service and other resources than we have. As a result, these companies may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer demands and devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products.Competition could seriously impede our ability to sell additional software solutions and related services on terms favorable to us. We do not know how our competition will set prices for their products. Businesses may internally develop solutions, rather than invest in commercially-available solutions. Our current and potential competitors may develop and market new technologies that render our existing or future solutions obsolete, unmarketable or less competitive. In addition, if these competitors develop solutions with similar or superior functionality to our solutions, or if they offer solutions with similar functionality at a substantially lower price than our solutions, we may need to decrease the prices for our solutions in order to remain competitive. If we are unable to maintain our current solution, services and maintenance pricing due to competitive pressures, our margins will be reduced 11Table of Contentsand our operating results will be adversely affected. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures will not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.We are subject to a lengthy sales cycle and delays or failures to complete sales may harm our business and cause our revenue and operating income to decline in the future.Our sales cycle may take several months to over a year. To sell our solutions successfully and obtain an executed contract, we generally have to educate our potential customers about the use and benefits of our solutions, which can require significant time and expense without the ability to realize any revenue. During this sales cycle, we expend substantial resources with no assurance that a sale will ultimately result. The length of a customer’s sales cycle depends on a number of factors, many of which we may not be able to control. These factors include the customer’s product and technical requirements and the level of competition we face for that customer’s business. Any unexpected lengthening of the sales cycle or failure to secure anticipated orders would negatively affect our revenue. Furthermore, a delay in our ability to obtain a signed agreement or to complete certain contract requirements in a particular quarter could reduce our revenue in that quarter. Any significant failure to generate revenue or delays in recognizing revenue after incurring costs related to our sales or services process could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Any unauthorized, and potentially improper, actions of our personnel could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The recognition of our revenue depends on, among other things, the terms negotiated in our contracts with our customers. Our personnel may act outside of their authority and negotiate additional terms without our knowledge. We have implemented policies to help prevent and discourage such conduct, but there can be no assurance that such policies will be followed. For instance, in the event that our sales personnel negotiate terms that do not appear in the contract and of which we are unaware, whether such additional terms are written or verbal, we could be prevented from recognizing revenue in accordance with our plans. Furthermore, depending on when we learn of unauthorized actions and the size of the transactions involved, we may have to restate revenue for a previously reported period, which would seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We recently completed our first two acquisitions, and in the future may continue to enter into acquisitions that may be difficult to integrate, fail to achieve our strategic objectives, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or divert management attention.We recently completed our first two acquisitions, and in the future may continue to enter into acquisitions of businesses, technologies and products that we intend to complement our existing business, solutions, services and technologies. We cannot provide assurance that the acquisitions we have made or will make in the future will provide us with the benefits or achieve the results we anticipated in entering into the transaction. Acquisitions are typically accompanied by a number of risks, including:•difficulties in integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired companies;•difficulties in maintaining acceptable standards, controls, procedures and policies, including integrating financial reporting and operating systems, particularly with respect to foreign and/or public subsidiaries;•potential disruption of ongoing business and distraction of management;•inability to maintain relationships with customers of the acquired business;•impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of any integration of new management and other personnel;•difficulties in incorporating acquired technology and rights into our solutions and services;•unexpected expenses resulting from the acquisition; and•potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses.In addition, acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt, acquisition related costs and expenses, restructuring charges and write-offs. Acquisitions may also result in goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to impairment tests, which could result in future impairment charges.In January 2014, we acquired approximately 90% of Cameleon. Since we own less than a 100% interest in a publicly traded company, we face additional risks, including being subject to French securities regulations applicable to public companies in France, NYSE Euronext rules, and being unable to exert full control. Although we intend to continue to purchase equity interests 12Table of Contentsin Cameleon to obtain a 100% interest, there is no guarantee that we will be successful. In December 2013, we acquired SignalDemand. SignalDemand was our first acquisition. The purchases of Cameleon and SignalDemand have required and will continue to require significant management time and attention during the acquisition and integration process.We may enter into negotiations for acquisitions that are not ultimately consummated. Those negotiations could result in diversion of management time and significant out-of-pocket costs. If we fail to evaluate and execute acquisitions successfully, we may not be able to achieve our anticipated level of growth and our business and operating results could be adversely affected.If we are not able to manage our anticipated growth effectively, our operating costs could increase and our operating margins could decrease. We expect to grow our infrastructure to address our acquisitions of SignalDemand and Cameleon and other potential additional business combinations. Our growth will continue to place, to the extent that we are able to sustain such growth, a strain on our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. If we continue to grow our operations, by way of additional business combinations, we may not be effective in enlarging our physical facilities, systems, procedures and internal controls may not be adequate to support such expansion. If we are unable to manage our growth, our operating costs could increase and our operating margins could decrease. Any downturn in sales to our target markets of manufacturing, distribution, services, and travel would adversely affect our operating results.Our success is highly dependent upon our ability to sell our software solutions to customers in the manufacturing, distribution, services, and travel industries. If we are unable to market and sell our software solutions effectively to customers in these industries, we may not be able to grow our business. It is uncertain whether our software solutions will achieve and sustain the levels of demand and market acceptance that we anticipate. Such uncertainty is attributable to, among other factors, the following:•it may be more difficult than we currently anticipate to implement our software solutions in our target industries;•it may be more difficult than we currently anticipate to increase our customer base in our target industries;•it may take more time than we currently anticipate to train our personnel in the implementation of our software solutions in our target industries; and•our limited experience implementing our software solutions in certain of our target industries.Our revenue growth has been derived from customers in the manufacturing, distribution, services, and travel industries. Our revenue growth is highly dependent upon continued growth of market acceptance in these industries, and there can be no assurance our solutions will achieve or sustain widespread acceptance among customers in these industries. Failure to expand market acceptance of our solutions in the manufacturing, distribution, services industries or to maintain sales in the manufacturing, distribution, services, and travel industries would adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.Our software solutions require implementation projects that are subject to significant risks and delays, which if any occurred could negatively impact the effectiveness of our software, resulting in harm to our reputation, business and financial performance.The implementation of our software solutions can involve complex, large-scale projects that require substantial support operations, significant resources and reliance on factors that are beyond our control. For example, the success of our implementation projects is heavily dependent upon the quality of data used by our software solutions, the commitment of customers’ resources and personnel to the projects and the stability, functionality and scalability of the customer’s information technology infrastructure. We may not be able to correct or compensate for weaknesses or problems in infrastructure or data, or any lack of our customers’ commitment and investment in personnel and resources. In addition, implementation of our software solutions can be highly complex and require substantial efforts and cooperation on the part of our customers. If we are unable to successfully manage the implementation of our software solutions such that those products do not meet customer needs or expectations, we may become involved in disputes with our customers and our business, reputation and financial performance may be significantly harmed. For projects accounted for under percentage-of-completion, we recognize our license and implementation revenues as implementation services are performed. Any delays in an implementation project or changes in the scope or timing of an implementation project would delay or alter the corresponding revenue recognition and could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, any delays or changes in scope could result in estimated project costs exceeding contracted revenue of which a loss reserve would need to be established which would have an adverse effect on our operating results. If an implementation project for a large customer or 13Table of Contentsa number of customers is substantially delayed or canceled, our ability to recognize the associated revenue and our operating results would be adversely affected.If our executives and other key personnel are unable to effectively manage our business, or if we fail to attract additional qualified sales, marketing, professional services, product development and other personnel, our revenue and operating results will be adversely affected.Our future success depends upon the performance and service of our executive officers and other key sales, development, science and professional services staff. The failure of our executives and key personnel to effectively manage our business or the loss of the services of our executive officers and other key personnel would harm our operations. In addition, our future success will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain a sufficient number of highly qualified sales, marketing, professional services, product development and other personnel, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. We have continued to add a significant number of new personnel to support our continued growth, and their ability to learn our business and manage it effectively will be important to our continued growth and expansion. In addition, given the highly sophisticated data science included in our solutions, the pool of data scientists and software developers qualified to work on our solutions is limited. The implementation of our software solutions requires highly-qualified personnel, and hiring and retaining such personnel to support our growth may be challenging. Competition for such qualified personnel is intense, and we compete for these individuals with other companies that have greater financial, technical, marketing, service and other resources than we do. If our key personnel are unable to effectively manage our business, or if we fail to attract additional qualified personnel, our operating results could be adversely affected.Deterioration of general U.S. and global economic conditions could adversely affect our sales and operating results.We are a global company with customers around the world. Global financial markets have experienced extreme disruption in recent years, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, limited ability to raise capital in public and private financial markets, severely diminished liquidity, credit unavailability and company rating downgrades. These conditions have a negative impact on our prospects' and customers' ability to raise capital and operate their businesses.The implementation of our software solutions, which is often accompanied by third party hardware purchases and other capital commitments, involves significant capital expenditure by our customers. Customers may reduce or defer their spending on technology. Customers may also elect to purchase our solutions via SaaS or term licenses, which could adversely impact our liquidity and/or result in the deferral of revenue over the contractual service period. In addition, the weak and uncertain U.S. and global economic conditions could impair our customers' ability to pay for our products or services. Any of these factors could delay our revenue recognition or otherwise adversely impact our business, quarterly or annual operating results and financial condition.Periodic fluctuations in the U.S. Dollar and other currencies, corporate profits, lower spending, the availability of credit, the impact of conflicts throughout the world, terrorist acts, natural disasters, volatile energy costs, the outbreak of diseases and other geopolitical factors have had, and may continue to have, a negative impact on the U.S. and global economies. Our customers and prospects may experience consolidation or bankruptcies in their industries which may result in project delays or cancellations. We are unable to predict the strength or duration of current market conditions or effects of consolidation. Uncertainties in anticipated spending levels or further consolidation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.A significant or prolonged economic downturn in industries in which we focus may result in our customers or prospects reducing or postponing spending on the solutions we offer.There are a number of factors, other than our performance, that could affect the size, frequency and renewal rates of our customer contracts. For instance, if economic conditions weaken in any industry in which our customers or prospects are focused, our customers or prospects may reduce or postpone their spending significantly which may, in turn, lower the demand for our solutions and negatively affect our revenue and profitability. As a way of dealing with a challenging economic environment, customers may change their purchasing strategies, including, in some instances, requesting term licenses or SaaS agreements as opposed to perpetual license agreements, increased negotiation of price, deciding to license one solution rather than multiple solutions or licensing solutions for portions of their business. Customers could also terminate or delay their implementations or maintenance contracts. Change in license terms or the loss of, or any significant decline in business from, one or more of our customers may lead to a significant decline in our revenue and operating margins, particularly if we are unable to make corresponding reductions in our expenses in the event of any such loss or decline. Moreover, a significant change in the liquidity or financial position of any of these customers could have a material adverse effect on the collectability of our accounts receivable, liquidity and future operating results.14Table of ContentsA weakening economy and changing business conditions could result in substantial defaults or slowing of payments by our customers on our accounts receivable which could have a significant negative impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.A significant portion of our working capital consists of accounts receivable from customers. If customers responsible for a significant amount of accounts receivable were to become insolvent or otherwise unable to pay for solutions and services, or were to become unwilling or unable to make payments in a timely manner, our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity could be adversely affected.Our global growth is subject to economic and political risks.We are a global company with customers around the world. In 2013, approximately 55% of our revenues were attributable to activities outside the United States. Our operations are subject to the effects of global competition. They are also affected by local economic environments, including inflation, recession and currency volatility. Political changes, some of which may be disruptive, may interfere with our customers and our activities in a particular location.Our revenue recognition policy may cause any decreases in sales not to be reflected in our revenue immediately.The period over which we recognize license and implementation revenue for an implementation depends on the number of licensed software solutions and the scope and complexity of the customer’s deployment requirements which may range from six months to several years. As a result, a significant majority of our revenue is recognized on arrangements that were executed in previous periods. Any shortfall in new sales of our software solutions may not be reflected in our revenue for several quarters, and as such the adverse impact on our business may not be readily apparent.Our revenue recognition is primarily based upon our ability to estimate the efforts required to complete our implementation projects, which may be difficult to estimate.Timing of revenue recognition on our contractual arrangements varies based on the nature of the performance obligations in each contract and the associated contract terms and, for implementation projects accounted for on a percentage-of-completion method, our ability to estimate the effort required to complete our implementation projects, which may be difficult to estimate. We evaluate our performance obligations and associated contractual terms for each new customer arrangement. Our conclusions with regard to the application of applicable financial accounting standards directly impact the timing of revenue recognition. For the majority of our software license and implementation arrangements, we recognize revenue over the period during which such services are performed using the percentage-of-completion method. We generally recognize revenue from our software licenses and implementation services over the period during which such services are performed using the percentage-of-completion method. The length of this period depends on the number of licensed software solutions and the scope and complexity of the customer’s deployment requirements. Under the percentage-of-completion method, the revenue we recognize during a reporting period is based on the resources expended during the reporting period as compared to the estimated total resources required to implement our software solutions. If we are unable to accurately estimate the overall total man-days required to implement our software solutions, such inaccuracies could have a material effect on the timing of our revenue. Any change in the timing of revenue recognition as a result of inaccurate estimates could adversely impact our quarterly or annual operating results.New accounting standards, or changes in existing financial accounting standards or practices, including those related to revenue recognition, may adversely affect our results of operations. GAAP in the United States are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. We adopted new accounting standards for multiple-element arrangements effective from January 1, 2010 and standard setters have proposed further changes to revenue recognition accounting standards, among others.Changes in existing accounting rules or practices, new accounting pronouncements, or varying interpretations of current accounting pronouncements, in particular those related to revenue recognition, could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations or the manner in which we conduct our business. Further, such changes could potentially affect our reporting of transactions completed before such changes are effective. A change in existing financial accounting standards or practices may even retroactively adversely affect previously reported transactions. 15Table of ContentsThe Financial Accounting Standards Board is currently working with the International Accounting Standards Board ("IASB") to converge certain accounting principles and to facilitate more comparable financial reporting between companies that are required to follow GAAP and those that are required to follow International Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRS"). These projects may result in different accounting principles under GAAP, which may have a material impact on the way in which we report financial results in areas including, but not limited to, principles for recognizing revenue, lease accounting, and financial statement presentation. A change in accounting principles from GAAP to IFRS may have a material impact on our financial statements should IFRS be incorporated into the financial reporting system for U.S. companies. Failure to sustain our historical maintenance and support renewal rates and pricing would adversely affect our operating results.Maintenance and support agreements are typically for a term of one to two years. Historically, maintenance and support revenue has represented a significant portion of our total revenue, including approximately 32%, 34% and 35% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. If our customers choose not to renew their maintenance and support agreements with us on favorable terms or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed.We might not generate increased business from our customers, which could limit our revenue in the future.We sell our software solutions to both new customers and existing customers. Many of our existing customers initially purchase our software solutions for a specific business segment or a specific geographic location within their organization and later purchase additional software solutions for the same or other business segments and geographic locations within their organization. These customers might not choose to make additional purchases of our software solutions or to expand their existing software solutions to other business segments. In addition, as we deploy new applications and features for our software solutions or introduce new software solutions, our current customers could choose not to purchase these new offerings. If we fail to generate additional business from our existing customers, our revenue could grow at a slower rate or even decrease.If our cost estimates for fixed-fee arrangements do not accurately anticipate the cost and complexity of implementing our software solutions, our profitability could be reduced and we could experience losses on these arrangements.Historically, a material portion of our license and implementation arrangements were priced on a fixed-fee basis, and we may continue to price implementation arrangements on a fixed-fee basis in the future. If we underestimate the amount of effort required to implement our software solutions, our profitability could be reduced. Moreover, if the actual costs of completing the implementation exceed the agreed upon fixed price, we would incur a loss on the arrangement.If we fail to develop or acquire new functionality to enhance our existing software solutions, we will not be able to grow our business and it could be harmed.The sales, pricing and revenue management software market is characterized by:•rapid technological developments;•newly emerging and changing customer requirements; and•frequent solution introductions, updates and functional enhancements.We must introduce enhancements to our existing software solutions in order to meet our business plan, maintain or improve our competitive position, keep pace with technological developments, satisfy increasing customer requirements and increase awareness of big data software for sales, pricing and revenue management generally and of our software solutions in particular. Any new functionality we develop may not be introduced in a timely manner and may not achieve market acceptance sufficient to generate material revenue. Furthermore, we believe that our competitors are heavily investing in research and development, and may develop and market new solutions that will compete with, and may reduce the demand for, our software solutions. We cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in developing or otherwise acquiring, marketing and licensing new functionality, or delivering updates and upgrades that meet changing industry standards and customer demands. In addition, we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, marketing and licensing of such functionality. If we are unable to develop or acquire new functionality, enhance our existing software solutions or adapt to changing industry requirements to meet market demand, we may not be able to grow our business and our revenue and operating results would be adversely affected.In addition, because our software solutions are intended to operate on a variety of technology platforms, we must continue to modify and enhance our software solutions to keep pace with changes in these platforms, as well as develop and maintain relationships with platform providers. Any inability of our software solutions to operate effectively with existing or future platforms, 16Table of Contentsor our inability to develop or maintain relationships with significant platform providers, could reduce the demand for our software solutions, result in customer dissatisfaction and limit our revenue.Our big data software solutions require hardware to operate which may be difficult for our customers to obtain.The implementation of our big data software solutions often requires specific hardware to operate. The inability of our customers’ to access and secure such hardware could impact the effectiveness of our software and result in harm to our reputation if the software does not operate properly due to the unavailability of the necessary hardware. If businesses do not implement our software due to their inability to obtain the hardware needed for our software, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.Defects or errors in our software solutions could harm our reputation, impair our ability to sell our solutions and result in significant costs to us.Our software solutions are complex and may contain undetected defects or errors. Several of our solutions have recently been developed and may therefore be more likely to contain undetected defects or errors. In addition, we frequently develop enhancements to our software solutions that may contain defects. We have not suffered significant harm from any defects or errors to date, but we have found defects in our software solutions from time to time. We may discover additional defects in the future, and such defects could be material. We may not be able to detect and correct defects or errors before the final implementation of our software solutions. Consequently, we or our customers may discover defects or errors after our software solutions have been implemented. We have in the past issued, and may in the future need to issue, corrective releases of our solutions to correct defects or errors. The occurrence of any defects or errors could result in:•lost or delayed market acceptance and sales of our software solutions;•delays in payment to us by customers;•injury to our reputation;•diversion of our resources;•legal claims, including product liability claims, against us;•increased maintenance and support expenses; and•increased insurance costs.Our license agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our liability for defects and errors in our software solutions and damages relating to such defects and errors, but these provisions may not be enforced by a court or otherwise effectively protect us from legal claims. Our liability insurance may not be adequate to cover all of the costs resulting from these legal claims. Moreover, we cannot provide assurance that our current liability insurance coverage will continue to be available on acceptable terms. In addition, the insurer may deny coverage on any future claim. The successful assertion against us of one or more large claims that exceeds available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Furthermore, even if we prevail in any litigation, we are likely to incur substantial costs and our management’s attention will be diverted from our operations.17Table of ContentsIntellectual property litigation and infringement claims may cause us to incur significant expense or prevent us from selling our software solutions.Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, trademarks and copyrights, and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. A third party may assert that our technology violates its intellectual property rights, or we may become the subject of a material intellectual property dispute. Sales, pricing and revenue management solutions may become increasingly subject to infringement claims as the number of commercially available sales, pricing and revenue management solutions increases and the functionality of these solutions overlaps. In addition, changes in patent laws in the U.S. may affect the scope, strength and enforceability of our patent rights or the nature of proceedings which may be brought by us related to our patent rights. Future litigation may involve patent holding companies or other adverse patent owners who have no relevant product revenue and against whom our own potential patents may therefore provide little or no deterrence. Regardless of the merit of any particular claim that our technology violates the intellectual property rights of others, responding to such claims may require us to:•incur substantial expenses and expend significant management efforts to defend such claims;•pay damages, potentially including treble damages, if we are found to have willfully infringed such parties’ patents or copyrights;•cease making, licensing or using products that are alleged to incorporate the intellectual property of others;•distract management and other key personnel from performing their duties for us;•enter into potentially unfavorable royalty or license agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies; and•expend additional development resources to redesign our solutions.Any license required as a result of litigation under any patent may not be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, some licenses may be nonexclusive, and therefore our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to design around a patent, we may be unable to effectively develop or market our solutions, which could limit our ability to generate revenue or maintain profitability.Contract terms generally obligate us to indemnify our customers for their use of the intellectual property associated with our software or for other third-party products that are incorporated into our solutions and that infringe the intellectual property rights of others. If we are unable to resolve our legal obligations by settling or paying an infringement claim or a related indemnification claim as described above, we may be required to compensate our customers under the contractual arrangement with such customers. Some of our intellectual property indemnification obligations are contractually capped at a very high amount or not capped at all.If we fail to protect our proprietary rights and intellectual property adequately, our business and prospects may be harmed.Our success will depend in part on our ability to protect our proprietary methodologies and intellectual property. We rely upon a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality policies, nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements, and patent, copyright and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot, however, be certain that steps we take to protect our proprietary rights will prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property, or the development and marketing of similar and competing products and services by third parties.We rely, in some circumstances, on trade secrets to protect our technology. Trade secrets, however, are difficult to protect. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors, and in such cases, we could not assert such trade secret rights against such parties. We seek to protect our proprietary technology and processes, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, customers, scientific advisors and other contractors. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. To the extent that our employees, consultants or contractors use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions.As of the date of this filing, we have nine issued U.S. patents and 27 pending U.S. patent applications. We have not pursued patent protection in any foreign countries. Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents. The patent position of technology-oriented companies, including ours, is generally uncertain and involves complex legal and factual considerations. The standards that the United States Patent and Trademark Office use to grant patents are not always applied predictably or uniformly and can change. Accordingly, we do not know the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights or the breadth of claims allowed in any patents that may be issued to us or to others. Our patents may not contain claims sufficiently 18Table of Contentsbroad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products, or provide us with any competitive advantage. Moreover, our patents and any patent for which we have licensed or may license rights may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented. If our patents are invalidated or otherwise limited, other companies will be better able to develop products that compete with ours, which could adversely affect our competitive business position, business prospects and financial condition.Patent applications in the U.S. are typically not published until, at least, 18 months after filing or in some cases not at all, and publications of discoveries in industry-related literature lag behind actual discoveries. We cannot be certain that we were the first to invent the inventions claimed in our pending patent applications or that we were the first to file for patent protection. Additionally, the process of obtaining patent protection is expensive and time-consuming, and we may not be able to prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. As a result, we may not be able to obtain adequate patent protection.In addition, despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may be able to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. The issuance of a patent does not guarantee that it is valid or enforceable. As such, even if we obtain patents, they may not be valid or enforceable against third parties. In addition, the issuance of a patent does not guarantee that we have a right to practice the patented invention. Third parties may have blocking patents that could be used to prevent us from marketing or practicing our potentially patented products. As a result, we may be required to obtain licenses under these third-party patents. If licenses are not available to us on acceptable terms, or at all, we will not be able to make and sell our software solutions and competitors would be more easily able to compete with us.We use open source software in our solutions that may subject our software solutions to general release or require us to re-engineer our solutions, which may cause harm to our business.We use open source software in our solutions and may use more open source software in the future. From time to time, there have been claims challenging the ownership of open source software against companies that incorporate open source software into their products. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. Some open source licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use. If we combine our proprietary software solutions with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain of the open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software solutions. In addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on origin of the software. In addition, open source license terms may be ambiguous and many of the risks associated with usage of open source cannot be eliminated, and could, if not properly addressed, negatively affect our business. If we were found to have inappropriately used open source software, we may be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our software, to re-engineer our solutions, to discontinue the sale of our solutions in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis or take other remedial action that may divert resources away from our development efforts, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.We utilize third-party software that we incorporate into our software solutions, and impaired relations with these third parties, defects in third-party software or a third party’s inability or failure to enhance their software over time could adversely affect our operating performance and financial condition.We incorporate and include third-party software into our software solutions. If our relations with any of these third parties are impaired, or if we are unable to obtain or develop a replacement for the software, our business could be harmed. The operation of our solutions could be impaired if errors occur in the third-party software that we utilize. It may be more difficult for us to correct any defects in third-party software because the software is not within our control. Accordingly, our business could be adversely affected in the event of any errors in this software. There can be no assurance that these third parties will continue to invest the appropriate levels of resources in their products and services to maintain and enhance the capabilities of their software.Our international sales, and the growth of our international operations, subject us to risks that may adversely affect our operating results.International operations are subject to risks associated with operating outside of the United States. Over the last several years, we derived a significant portion of our revenue from customers outside the United States. For the year ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, approximately 55%, 56% and 64% of our total revenue, respectively, was derived from outside the United States. We may not be able to maintain or increase international market demand for our solutions. We have customers in over 50 countries, and have operations in the United Kingdom and Germany (through wholly-owned subsidiaries). In 2013, we began operating in Canada (through the formation of a wholly-owned Canadian subsidiary). During 2013, we continued to grow our operations in the United Kingdom, Germany, and Canada. The financial impact of our international operations to our overall 19Table of Contentsbusiness has been insignificant to date. We expect our international operations to grow as the result of acquiring control over Cameleon in January 2014. Managing overseas growth could require significant resources and management attention and may subject us to new or larger levels of regulatory, economic, foreign currency exchange, tax and political risks. Among the risks we believe are most likely to affect us with respect to our international sales and operations are:•economic conditions in various parts of the world;•unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;•less protection for intellectual property rights in some countries;•new and different sources of competition;•costs of compliance and penalties for noncompliance with foreign laws and laws applicable to companies doing business in foreign jurisdictions;•multiple, conflicting and changing tax laws and regulations that may affect both our international and domestic tax liabilities and result in increased complexity and costs;•the difficulty of managing and staffing our international operations and the increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations;•difficulties in enforcing contracts and collecting accounts receivable, especially in developing countries;•if more contracts become denominated in local currency, fluctuations in exchange rates; and•tariffs and trade barriers, import/export controls and other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell or develop our solutions in certain foreign markets.In addition, as a majority shareholder of Cameleon, we face several additional risks, including adverse foreign currency fluctuations, being subject to French securities regulations applicable to publicly traded companies in France, NYSE Euronext rules, and, until such time as Cameleon becomes a wholly owned subsidiary of ours, being unable to exert full control. If we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our international operations and reduce our international sales, adversely affecting our business, operating results and financial condition. To date, almost all of our sales have been denominated in U.S. dollars, although the majority of our expenses that we incur in our international operations are denominated in local currencies. To date, we have not used risk management techniques or “hedged” the risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. As a result, our results of operations are subject to losses from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Security breaches, cyber attacks or fraudulent activity could result in damage to our reputation or operations. A security breach or cyber attack of either our computer systems or our third party cloud service provider systems could interrupt or damage our operations or harm our reputation. Despite the implementation of security measures, these systems may still be vulnerable to data theft, computer viruses, malicious software programs, programming errors, attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems. If we were to experience a security breach or cyber attack, we could be required to incur substantial costs and liabilities, including: •expenses to rectify the consequences of the security breach or cyber attack;•liability for stolen assets or information;•costs of repairing damage to our systems; •increased costs of cyber security protection; and •damage to our reputation causing customers and investors to lose confidence in us.Our cloud and other new offerings bring new business and operational risks.We have introduced new products and technology initiatives in the area of cloud computing. We include in this category our SaaS offerings. Our SaaS offerings provide our customers with existing and new software management through a hosted service as opposed to traditional software deployments. There can be no assurance that SaaS revenue will be significant in the future despite our investment. There is a risk that our SaaS offerings may reduce demand for licenses and maintenance of our 20Table of Contentstraditional software products which could impact our revenue and/or operating margins in any given quarter. There is also a risk that our internal development and customer support teams could find it difficult or costly to support both traditional software installed by customers and software delivered as a service. In addition, interruptions or delays in service from our third party service delivery hosts could impair the delivery of our services and harm our business. In the cloud, our products may be dependent upon third party hardware, software and cloud hosting vendors, all of which must interoperate for end users to achieve their computing goals. Additionally, operating margins on our new initiatives may be lower than those we have achieved in our more mature product markets, and our new initiatives may not generate sufficient revenue to recoup our investments in them. If any of these events were to occur, it could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.Our operations might be affected by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event in Houston, Texas.Our headquarters are located in Houston, Texas, from which we base our operations. Although we have contingency plans in effect for natural disasters or other catastrophic events (including terrorist attacks and hurricanes), these events could disrupt our operations. Even though we carry business interruption insurance and typically have provisions in our contracts that protect us in certain events, we might suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available under our insurance policies or for which we do not have coverage. Even a temporary disruption to our business operations may create a negative perception in the marketplace. Any natural disaster or catastrophic event affecting us could have a significant negative impact on our operations.Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited, and our failure to raise capital when needed could prevent us from executing our strategy. We believe that our existing unrestricted cash and cash equivalents, our availability under our revolving credit facility with Wells Fargo, and our cash flow from future operating activities will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the next twelve months and the foreseeable future. The timing and amount of our working capital and capital expenditure requirements may vary significantly depending on numerous factors, including the other risk factors described herein. In addition, we may require additional capital to fund acquisitions. Additional capital may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to invest in our business growth could be limited. Any additional capital raised through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities may dilute your percentage ownership of our common stock. Furthermore, any new debt or equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to our common stock. If we raise capital by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. Capital raised through debt financings could require us to make periodic interest payments and could impose additional restrictive covenants on the conduct of our business that make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. The expiration of the research and experimentation tax credit could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.Our federal effective tax rate historically has been lower than the statutory rate of 34% largely due to tax credit incentives under the U.S. research and experimentation tax credit extended to taxpayers engaged in qualified research and experimental activities. This tax credit is designed to stimulate qualifying company research and development over time by reducing after-tax costs. By qualifying for the tax credit, we have been able to use general business tax credits to reduce our federal income tax liability. Since its enactment in 1981, Congress has reinstated on a retroactive basis the research and experimentation tax credit several times. Unless the research and experimentation tax credit is reinstated for 2014, we will record federal income taxes in 2014 at the enacted federal rate of 34%, without the benefit of this tax credit.We incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to compliance initiatives.As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("Sarbanes-Oxley") and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), and rules currently proposed or subsequently implemented by the SEC and NYSE impose heightened requirements on public companies. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. We may also need to hire additional personnel to support our compliance requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations increase our legal and financial costs and make some activities more time-consuming.If we fail to continue to maintain internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley, our market price may be adversely affected.21Table of ContentsSection 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley requires our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and to provide a report by our registered independent public accounting firm addressing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to continue to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, or if a material weakness is identified in our internal controls over financial reporting, or if we are unable to implement internal controls over financial reporting for our acquisitions, our financial results may be adversely affected and we could lose investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. Accordingly failure to maintain effective controls over financial reporting may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.In addition, in May 2013, the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”) issued a new version of its internal control framework, which will be effective December 15, 2014. We have not yet developed a plan to integrate the 2013 edition of the COSO framework into our assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting. We may determine, following implementation of the 2013 COSO framework, that deficiencies exist in our internal controls over financial reporting, which may adversely affect our financial results and result in a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. Risks relating to ownership of our common stock:Market volatility may affect our stock price and the value of your investment.The market price for our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be volatile. Volatility could make it difficult to trade shares of our common stock at predictable prices or times.Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to be volatile, including the following:•variations in our quarterly or annual operating results;•decreases in market valuations of comparable companies;•fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes;•decreases in financial estimates by equity research analysts;•announcements by our competitors of significant contracts, new solutions or enhancements, acquisitions, distribution partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments;•departure of key personnel;•changes in governmental regulations and standards affecting the software industry and our solutions;•sales of common stock or other securities by us in the future;•damages, settlements, legal fees and other costs related to litigation, claims and other contingencies;•deterioration of the general U. S. and global economic condition; and•other risks described elsewhere in this section.In the past, securities class action litigation often has been initiated against a company following a period of volatility in the market price of the company’s securities. If class action litigation is initiated against us, we will incur substantial costs and our management’s attention will be diverted from our operations. All of these factors could cause the market price of our stock to decline, and you may lose some or all of your investment.In addition, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate in response to the market volatility of Cameleon, a publicly traded French societe anonyme of which we own an approximately 90% stake.Shares of our common stock are relatively illiquid and trading of our shares could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.Our common stock is thinly traded, and we have a relatively small public float. For the quarterly period ended December 31, 2013, the average daily trading volume of our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange was 75,136 shares. Our common stock may be less liquid than the stock of companies with a broader public ownership. In addition, sales of a large volume of our common stock by us or our current stockholders, or the perception that sales could occur, may also have a significant impact on its trading price.If equity research analysts cease to publish research or reports about us or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline.22Table of ContentsThe trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. The price of our stock could decline if one or more equity research analysts downgrade our stock or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about our business.Anti-takeover provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management.Our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws and Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that might enable our management to resist a takeover of our company. These provisions include the following:•the division of our board of directors into three classes to be elected on a staggered basis, one class each year;•a prohibition on actions by written consent of our stockholders;•the elimination of the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders;•a requirement that stockholders provide advance notice of any stockholder nominations of directors or any proposal of new business to be considered at any meeting of stockholders;•a requirement that a supermajority vote be obtained to amend or repeal certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation; and•the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval.In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which limits the ability of stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock to merge or combine with us. Although we believe these provisions collectively provide for an opportunity to obtain higher bids by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if an offer were considered beneficial by some stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management.We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future.We do not currently anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently anticipate that we will retain all of our available cash, if any, for use as working capital and for other general corporate purposes. Any payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon, among other things, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends and other considerations that the board of directors deems relevant. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.