Item 1A: Risk FactorsSet forth below, and elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the SEC, are risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to materially differ from the results contemplated. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations.We have a history of losses. If net sales do not grow and operational costs increase, we may be unable to achieve or maintain profitability.We have high interest expense and have historically recorded high amortization expense, and as a result, we have previously incurred net and operating losses. We may not succeed in achieving or maintaining profitability on an annual basis and could continue to incur quarterly or annual losses in future periods. In addition, we expect to make significant expenditures related to the development of our products, including research and development and sales and administrative expenses. We may also encounter unforeseen difficulties, complications, product delays and other unknown factors that require additional expenditures. As a result of these increased expenditures, we may have to generate and sustain substantially increased net sales to achieve or maintain profitability. Accordingly, we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability and we may continue to incur significant losses.We operate in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, which is subject to significant downturns. Failure to adjust our supply chain volume due to changing market conditions or failure to estimate our customers’ demand could adversely affect our results of operations.The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and is characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards, short product life-cycles and fluctuations in product supply and demand. The industry has experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles of both semiconductor companies’ and their customers’ products and declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, higher inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. We have historically experienced adverse effects on our results of operations and cash flows during such downturns and may experience such adverse effects in future downturns. We may not be able to effectively respond to future downturns which could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and 14Table of Contentsresults of operations. Likewise, demand for our products is subject to considerable fluctuation. If we overestimate demand, we may experience underutilized capacity and excess inventory levels, and we may miss sales opportunities and incur additional costs for labor overtime, capital expenditures and logistical complexities.We make major decisions, including determining the levels of business that we will seek and accept, production schedules, levels of reliance on contract manufacturing and outsourcing, personnel needs and other resource requirements based on our estimates of future customer requirements. The short-term nature of commitments by many of our customers and the possibility of rapid changes in demand for their products reduces our ability to accurately estimate future customer requirements. Our results of operations could be adversely impacted if we are unable to adjust our supply chain volume to address market fluctuations, including those caused by the seasonal or cyclical nature of the markets in which we operate. The sale of our products is largely dependent on customers whose industries are subject to seasonal or cyclical trends in the demand for their products. For example, the consumer electronics market is particularly volatile and is subject to seasonality related to the holiday selling season, making demand difficult to forecast. On occasion, customers may require rapid increases in production, which can challenge our resources and reduce margins. During a market upturn, we may not be able to purchase sufficient supplies or components or secure sufficient contract manufacturing capacity to meet increasing product demand, which could harm our reputation, prevent us from taking advantage of opportunities and reduce net sales growth. In addition, some parts are not readily available from alternate suppliers due to their unique design or the length of time necessary for design work.In order to secure components for the production of our products, we may continue to enter into non-cancellable purchase commitments with vendors or make advance payments to suppliers, which could reduce our ability to adjust our inventory or expense levels during periods of declining market demand. Prior commitments of this type have resulted in an excess of parts when demand for our products has decreased. Downturns in the semiconductor industry have in the past caused, and may in the future cause, our customers to drastically reduce the amount of products ordered from us. If demand for our products is less than we expect, we may experience excess and obsolete inventories and be forced to incur additional charges. Because certain of our sales, research and development and internal manufacturing overhead expenses are relatively fixed, a reduction in customer demand may decrease our gross margins and operating earnings.The loss of one or more of our significant customers or a decline in demand from one or more of these customers could have a material negative impact on net sales.Historically, we have relied on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our total sales. Our ten largest end customers accounted for approximately 38%, 39% and 43% of our net sales in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. As a result, the loss of or a reduction in demand from one or more of these customers, either as a result of industry conditions or specific events relating to a particular customer, could have a material negative impact on net sales. Other than Continental Automotive, no other end customer represented more than 10% of our total net sales in any of the last three years. Continental Automotive represented 15%, 15% and 13% of our total net sales in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.Our gross margin is dependent on a number of factors, including our level of factory utilization and intellectual property revenue.Semiconductor manufacturing requires extensive capital investment, leading to high fixed costs, including depreciation expense. Notwithstanding our utilization of third-party contract manufacturers, a majority of our production requirements are met by our own manufacturing facilities. If we are unable to maximize the utilization our manufacturing facilities , the fixed costs associated with these facilities will not be fully absorbed, resulting in higher average unit costs and lower gross margins. In the past, we have experienced periods where our gross margins declined due to, among other things, reduced factory utilization resulting from reduced customer demand, reduced selling prices, a change in product mix towards lower margin devices and procurement inefficiencies. Market conditions in the future may adversely affect our utilization rates and consequently our future gross margins, and this, in turn, could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, increased competition, the existence of product alternatives, the success of our new product introductions, more complex engineering requirements, lower demand and other factors may lead to further price erosion, lower net sales and lower gross margins for us in the future.Our gross margin is also affected by the amount of revenue generated from licensing or selling our intellectual property to third parties. The revenue associated with intellectual property sales and licensing arrangements is generally high margin but can fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Our operating results may be adversely affected if economic conditions negatively impact the financial viability of our customers, distributors or suppliers, particularly in the automotive industry.We regularly review the financial performance of our customers, distributors and suppliers. However, global economic conditions may adversely impact the financial viability of and increase the credit risk associated with our customers, distributors or suppliers. Customer insolvencies in key industries most affected by any economic downturn, such as the automotive industry, or the financial failure of a large customer or distributor, an important supplier, or a group thereof, could 15Table of Contentshave an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could result in our inability to collect our accounts receivable.Winning business is subject to a competitive selection process that can be lengthy and requires us to incur significant expense even in the case we are not ultimately selected. After we win and begin a product design, a customer may decide then to cancel or change their product plans, which could cause us to generate no sales from a product and adversely affect our results of operations.We participate in competitive bid selection processes to develop products for use in our customers’ products. These selection processes can be lengthy and can require us to incur large design and development expenditures. We may not win the competitive selection process and may never generate any sales despite incurring the major design and development expenditures. Because of the rapid rate of technological change, the failure to win a particular selection process could result in our failure to offer a generation of a product. In addition, the failure to offer a generation of a product to a particular customer could prevent access to that customer for several years. These risks are particularly pronounced in the automotive market, which is characterized by long design cycles. Our failure to win a sufficient number of designs could result in lost sales and negatively impact our competitive position in future selection processes because we may not be perceived as a technology or industry leader, which could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.After winning a product design, we may still experience delays in generating sales from our products as a result of the lengthy development and design cycle. In addition, if there is a delay or cancellation of a customer’s plans or if our customers fail to successfully market and sell their products, it could adversely affect our financial results, as we may have incurred large expenses and generated no sales. We face fierce competitive pressures that may cause us to lose market share and harm our financial performance.The semiconductor industry is highly competitive and characterized by constant and rapid technological change, short product lifecycles, significant price erosion and evolving standards. Our growth objectives depend on competitive success and increased market share in our markets. If we fail to keep pace with the rest of the semiconductor industry, we could lose market share in the markets in which we compete. Any such loss in market share could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations.Our competitors range from large, international companies offering a full range of products to smaller companies specializing in narrow markets within the semiconductor industry. The competitive environment is also changing as a result of increased alliances among our competitors and through strategic acquisitions, joint ventures and other alliances. Our competitors may have greater financial, personnel and other resources than we have in a particular market or overall. We expect competition in the markets in which we participate to continue to increase as existing competitors improve or expand their product offerings or as new participants enter our markets. Increased competition may result in reduced profitability and reduced market share for Freescale.We compete in our different product lines primarily on the basis of technology offered, product features, quality and availability of service, time-to-market, product quality, reputation and price. Our ability to develop new products to meet customer requirements and to meet customer delivery schedules are also critical factors. We believe that new products represent the most important opportunity to overcome the increased competition and pricing pressure inherent in the semiconductor industry. If we are unable to keep pace with technology changes, our market share could decrease and our business would be adversely affected. In addition, we could lose market share to new entrants that are able to more quickly adapt to technological changes.The demand for our products depends in large part on continued growth in the industries into which they are sold. A market decline in any of these industries, or a decline in demand for particular products in those industries, could have a material negative impact on our results of operations.Our growth is dependent, in part, on end-user demand for our customers’ products. Our largest end-markets are automotive, networking and industrial, and we also provide products to targeted consumer electronics markets. Industry downturns that adversely affect our customers or their customers, including increases in bankruptcies in relevant industries, could adversely affect end-user demand for our customers’ products, which would adversely affect demand for our products.Growth in demand in the markets we serve has in the past and may in the future fluctuate significantly based on numerous factors, including:•worldwide automotive production levels along with content per vehicle;•capital spending levels of our networking customers;•consumer spending;•rate of adoption of new or alternative technologies;•changes in consumer preferences;•changes in regulation of products and services provided; and16Table of Contents•general economic conditions.The rate, or extent to which, the industries we serve will grow, if at all, is uncertain. In addition, there can be no assurance that particular products within these industries will experience the growth in demand that we expect. The industries we serve could experience slower growth or a decline in demand, which could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.The semiconductor industry is characterized by drastic price erosion, especially after a product has been on the market for an extended period of time.The specific products in which our semiconductors are incorporated may not be successful, or may experience price erosion or other competitive factors that affect the prices manufacturers are willing to pay us. One of the results of the rapid innovation that is exhibited by the semiconductor industry is that pricing pressure, especially on products containing older technology, can be intense. In order to profitably supply these products, we must reduce our production costs in line with the lower net sales we can expect to receive per unit. Usually, this must be accomplished through improvements in process technology and production efficiencies. If we cannot advance our process technologies or improve our efficiencies to a degree sufficient to maintain required margins, we will not be able to make a profit from the sale of these products. Moreover, we may not be able to cease production of such products, either due to contractual obligations or for customer relationship reasons, and as a result may incur losses on such products.Competition in our core product markets could lead to price erosion, lower net sales growth rates and lower margins in the future. Should reductions in our manufacturing costs fail to keep pace with reductions in market prices for the products we sell, we could experience a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, actual growth rates may be less than projected industry growth rates, resulting in spending on process and product development well ahead of market requirements, which could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.If we fail to keep pace with technological advances in our industry and associated manufacturing processes, or if we pursue technologies that do not become commercially accepted, our products may not be as competitive, our customers may not buy our products and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.Technology and associated manufacturing processes are an important component of our business and growth strategy. Our success largely depends on the development, implementation and acceptance of new product designs and improvements. Commitments to develop new products must be made well in advance of any resulting sales. Technologies, standards or manufacturing processes may change during development, potentially rendering our products outdated or uncompetitive before their introduction. Our ability to develop products and related technologies to meet evolving industry requirements and at prices acceptable to our customers are major factors in determining our competitiveness in our target markets. If we are unable to successfully develop new products, our net sales may decline and our business could be negatively impacted.We are highly leveraged. The substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations or capital expenditures, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations under our debt agreements.We are highly leveraged. As of December 31, 2013, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of our consolidated indebtedness, all of which has been incurred by our indirect subsidiary, Freescale Semiconductor, Inc., a Delaware corporation (“Freescale Inc.”), was approximately $6,511 million, and Freescale Inc. also has an additional $409 million available for borrowing under a revolving credit facility after taking into account $16 million in outstanding letters of credit. We are a guarantor of all of this debt. Since the acquisition by a consortium of private equity funds, referred to as our “Sponsors,” in 2006 and as a result of numerous refinancing transactions, our indebtedness consists of the senior credit facilities and the senior secured, senior unsecured and senior subordinated notes. Freescale Inc. has not defaulted under any of this indebtedness.This high degree of leverage could have important consequences, including:•increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments;•requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on the indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities;•exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because certain of the borrowings, including borrowings under the senior credit facilities and the senior unsecured floating rate notes, are at variable rates of interest;•making it more difficult to satisfy obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions, could result in an event of default under the agreements governing the indebtedness;•restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures;17Table of Contents•limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and•limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors who are less highly leveraged and who therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from pursuing.At December 31, 2013, our indebtedness included (i) the revolving credit facility with a committed capacity of $425 million and no amounts outstanding thereunder (without giving effect to $16 million in outstanding letters of credit),which will be available through July 1, 2016; (ii) $347 million outstanding under a term loan due 2016; (iii) $2,373 million outstanding under a term loan due 2020; (iv) $798 million outstanding under a term loan due 2021; (v) $500 million aggregate principal amount outstanding under senior secured notes due in 2021; (vi) $960 million aggregate principal amount outstanding under senior secured notes due in 2022; (vii) $57 million aggregate principal amount outstanding under senior unsecured notes due 2014; (viii) $1,212 million aggregate principal amount outstanding under senior unsecured notes due 2020; and (ix) $264 million aggregate principal amount outstanding under senior subordinated notes due 2016. Despite our high indebtedness level, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur significant additional amounts of debt, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness.We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although the agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances, the amount of indebtedness that could be incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. In addition, $409 million is available for borrowing under the revolving credit facility after taking into account $16 million in outstanding letters of credit.If we cannot make scheduled payments on our indebtedness, we will be in default under one or more of our debt agreements and, as a result, we would need to take other action to satisfy our obligations or be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. In addition, we are unable to engage in specified activities if we fail to meet specified ratios under our debt agreements.Our cash interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 was $471 million, $500 million and $554 million, respectively. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our indebtedness, we will be in default under one or more of our debt agreements and, as a result, holders of our debt could declare all outstanding principal and interest due and payable and, in the case of our secured debt, foreclose against the assets securing the debt, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our indebtedness depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flow from operations sufficient to permit us to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to take any of these actions, and these actions may not be successful or permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Furthermore, these actions may not be permitted under the terms of our existing or future debt agreements.We have in the past refinanced Freescale Inc.’s indebtedness by issuing new indebtedness and amending the terms of Freescale Inc.’s senior credit facilities to take advantage of market opportunities to improve our capital structure by extending the maturities of the indebtedness, reducing the total outstanding principal amount of our indebtedness by repaying debt, lowering cash interest expense and increasing flexibility under existing covenants for business planning purposes. The refinancing activities have not been as a result of any default under those debt agreements. Although Freescale Inc.’s lenders have agreed to such amendments and participated in such refinancings in the past, there can be no assurance that its lenders would participate in any future refinancings or agree to any future amendments. In addition, certain of Freescale Inc.’s lenders may object to the validity of the terms of any such amendment or refinancing. For example, in 2009, a group of lenders under the senior credit facilities filed a complaint against Freescale Inc. challenging the 2009 debt exchange transaction under the senior credit facilities. The debt exchange was completed, but the litigation remained outstanding. As part of the on-going litigation, this group of lenders sought to enjoin Freescale Inc. from completing the amendment of its senior credit facilities and the issuance of its 10.125% senior secured notes in the first quarter of 2010. Freescale Inc. reached an agreement to settle the pending litigation and was able to complete the 2010 transactions. Freescale Inc. may be subject to similar actions in connection with future refinancings or amendments, which may impact the terms and conditions or timing thereof, preclude Freescale Inc. from completing any such transaction or subject Freescale Inc. to significant additional costs.In the absence of sufficient operating results and resources to service our debt, or appropriate refinancing or amendments thereof, we could face substantial liquidity problems and may be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our debt agreements restrict our ability to dispose of assets and, even if permitted, we may not be able to consummate any such dispositions, which could result in our inability to meet our debt service obligations. Much of our debt requires, and our future debt may also require, us to repurchase such debt upon an event that would constitute 18Table of Contentsa change of control for the purposes of such debt. We may not be able to meet these repurchase obligations because we may not have sufficient financial resources to do so. Our failure to meet our repurchase obligations upon a change of control would cause a default under the agreements governing our debt.Freescale Inc. is not subject to any maintenance covenants under its existing debt agreements and is therefore not required to meet any specified ratios on an on-going basis. However, our ability to engage in specified activities is tied to ratios under our debt agreements based on Adjusted EBITDA, in each case subject to certain exceptions. Our subsidiaries are unable to incur any indebtedness under the indentures and specified indebtedness under the existing senior secured credit facilities ("Credit Facility"), pay dividends, make certain investments, prepay junior debt and make other restricted payments, in each case not otherwise permitted by our debt agreements, unless, after giving effect to the proposed activity, the fixed charge coverage ratio (as defined in the applicable indenture) would be at least 2.00:1 and the senior secured first lien leverage ratio (as defined in the Credit Facility) would be no greater than 4.00:1. Also, our subsidiaries may not incur certain indebtedness in connection with acquisitions unless, prior to and after giving effect to the proposed transaction, the total leverage ratio (as defined in the Credit Facility) is no greater than 6.50:1, except as otherwise permitted by the Credit Facility. In addition, except as otherwise permitted by the applicable debt agreement, we may not designate any subsidiary as unrestricted or engage in certain mergers unless, after giving effect to the proposed transaction, the fixed charge coverage ratio would be at least 2.00:1 or equal to or greater than it was prior to the proposed transaction and the senior secured first lien leverage ratio would be no greater than 4.00:1. We are also unable to have liens on assets securing indebtedness without also securing our outstanding notes unless the consolidated secured debt ratio (as defined in the applicable indenture) would be no greater than 3.25:1 after giving effect to the proposed lien, except as otherwise permitted by the indentures. Accordingly, we believe it is useful to provide the calculation of Adjusted EBITDA to investors for purposes of determining our ability to engage in these activities. Freescale Inc. was in compliance with the covenants under the Credit Facility and the Indentures and met the fixed charge coverage ratio of 2.00:1 and the total leverage ratio of 6.50:1 but did not meet the senior secured first lien leverage ratio of 4.00:1 and the consolidated secured debt ratio of 3.25:1. As of December 31, 2013, Freescale Inc.’s total leverage ratio was 6.50:1, senior secured first lien leverage ratio was 4.74:1, the fixed charge coverage ratio was 2.24:1 and the consolidated secured debt ratio was 5.58:1. Accordingly, we are currently restricted from making certain investments and incurring liens on assets securing indebtedness, except as otherwise permitted by the Credit Facility and the Indentures. The fact that we do not meet these ratios does not result in any default under the Credit Facility or the indentures.Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations.An increase in prevailing interest rates could adversely affect our financial condition. LIBOR (the interest rate index on which our variable rate debt is based) fluctuates on a regular basis. At December 31, 2013, we had approximately $3,575 million aggregate principal amount of variable interest rate indebtedness under the senior unsecured floating rate notes and the senior credit facilities, $3,518 million of which is subject to a LIBOR floor. Any increased interest expense associated with increases in interest rates affects our cash flow and our ability to service our debt. At December 31, 2013, a 100 basis point increase in LIBOR rates from their current levels would remain below the 1.25% LIBOR floors on the term loans due in 2020 and 2021 and would result in an increase in our interest expense of only $1 million per year. If the LIBOR rate exceeds the aforementioned 1.25% LIBOR floors, our cash interest obligation could increase greatly and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business.The agreements governing our indebtedness contain various covenants that limit our subsidiaries’ ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things:•pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments;•incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares;•make certain investments;•sell certain assets;•create liens;•consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and•enter into certain transactions with our affiliates.A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under one or more of these agreements, including as a result of cross default provisions and, in the case of the revolving credit facility, permit the lenders (or note holders, as applicable) to cease making loans to us. In the event of default under our debt agreements, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable and, in the case of the revolving credit facility, terminate any commitments to extend further credit. Such actions by the lenders under any one of our debt agreements could cause cross defaults under our other indebtedness. If we were unable to repay amounts due to the lenders under the senior credit facilities or the note holders under the senior secured notes, those lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. We have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under the senior credit facilities and senior secured notes. If our 19Table of Contentslenders and/or note holders, as applicable, accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay our debt obligations.Our industry is highly capital intensive and, if we are unable to obtain the necessary capital, we may not remain competitive.To remain competitive, we must constantly improve our facilities and process technologies and carry out extensive research and development, all of which requires investment of significant amounts of capital. This risk is magnified by our high level of indebtedness, which requires to use a significant portion of our cash flow to service our debt and limits our ability to raise additional capital. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash or raise sufficient capital to meet both our debt service and capital investment requirements, or if we are unable to raise capital on favorable terms when needed, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially negatively impacted.We outsource a portion of our manufacturing activities to third-party contract manufacturers. If our production or manufacturing capacity at one of these third-party facilities is delayed, interrupted or eliminated, we may not be able to satisfy customer demand.We continue to develop outsourcing arrangements for the manufacture and test and assembly of certain products and components. Based on total units produced, we outsourced approximately 33% of our wafer fabrication and approximately 35% of our assembly, packaging and testing in 2013 to third-party contract manufacturers. If production or manufacturing capacity is delayed, reduced or eliminated at one or more of these facilities, manufacturing could be disrupted, we could have difficulties or delays in fulfilling our customer orders, and our sales could decline, especially for certain advanced technologies that we are not capable of manufacturing internally. In addition, if a third-party contract manufacturer fails to deliver quality products and components on time and at reasonable prices, we could have difficulties fulfilling our customer orders, and our sales could also decline. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.To the extent we rely on alliances and third-party design and/or manufacturing relationships, we face the following risks:•reduced control over delivery schedules and product costs;•manufacturing costs that are higher than anticipated;•inability of our manufacturing partners to develop manufacturing methods and technology appropriate for our products and their unwillingness to devote adequate capacity to produce our products;•decline in product reliability;•inability to maintain continuing relationships with our suppliers; and•restricted ability to meet customer demand when faced with product shortages.In addition, purchasing rather than manufacturing these products may adversely affect our gross margin if the purchase costs of these products become higher than our own manufacturing costs would have been. Our internal manufacturing costs include depreciation and other fixed costs, while prices for products outsourced are based on market conditions. Prices for foundry products also vary depending on capacity utilization rates at our suppliers, quantities demanded, product technology and geometry. Furthermore, these outsourcing costs can vary materially from quarter-to-quarter and, in cases of industry shortages, can increase drastically, negatively impacting our gross margins.If any of these risks are realized, we could experience an interruption in our supply chain or an increase in costs, which could delay or decrease our net sales or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.A reduction or disruption in our production capacity or our supplies, or an incorrect forecast, could negatively impact our business.Our production capacity could be affected by manufacturing problems. Difficulties in the production process could reduce yields or interrupt production, and, as a result of such problems, we may not be able to deliver products on time or in a cost-effective, competitive manner. As the complexity of both our products and our fabrication processes has become more advanced, manufacturing tolerances have been reduced and requirements for precision have become more demanding. In the past, we have experienced delays in delivery and product quality. Our failure to adequately manage our capacity or maintain product quality could have a negative impact on net sales and harm our customer relationships.Furthermore, we may suffer disruptions in our manufacturing operations, either due to production difficulties such as those described above or as a result of external factors beyond our control. We use highly combustible materials such as silane and hydrogen in our manufacturing processes and are therefore subject to the risk of explosions and fires, which can cause major disruptions to our operations. If operations at a manufacturing facility are interrupted, we may not be able to shift production to other facilities on a timely basis or at all. In addition, certain of our products are only capable of being produced at a single manufacturing facility due to qualification requirements and to the extent that any of these facilities fail to produce these products, this risk will be increased. Even if a transfer is possible, transitioning production of a particular type of semiconductor from one of our facilities to another can take between six to twelve months to accomplish, and in the interim period we would likely suffer extensive or total supply disruption and incur substantial costs. Such an event could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.20Table of ContentsWe have a concentration of manufacturing operations (including assembly and test) in Asia, primarily in China, Malaysia, Taiwan and Korea, either in our own facilities or in the facilities of third parties. If manufacturing in this region were disrupted, our overall production capacity could be significantly reduced. Our ability to meet customer demands also depends on our ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of materials, parts and components from our suppliers. From time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit the amounts supplied to us or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. Supply disruptions may also occur due to shortages in critical resources, such as silicon wafers, specialized chemicals or energy or other general supplier disruptions. We have experienced shortages in the past that have adversely affected our operations. Although we work closely with our suppliers to avoid these types of shortages, we may encounter these problems in the future. In addition, a number of our supplies are obtained from a single source. A reduction or interruption in supplies or a large increase in the price of one or more supplies could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by the political and economic conditions in the countries in which we conduct business and other factors related to our international operations.We sell our products throughout the world. For each of the last three years, greater than 80% of our products were sold into countries other than the United States. In addition, a majority of our operations and employees are located outside of the United States. Multiple factors relating to our international operations and to particular countries in which we operate could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These factors include:•negative economic developments in economies around the world;•the instability of international governments, including the threat of war, terrorist attacks or civil unrest;•adverse changes in laws and governmental policies, especially those affecting trade and investment;•import or export licensing requirements imposed by governments;•foreign currency exchange and transfer restrictions;•differing labor standards and laws;•differing levels of protection of intellectual property;•the threat that our operations or property could be subject to nationalization and expropriation;•varying practices of the regulatory, tax, judicial and administrative bodies in the jurisdictions where we operate;•pandemics, such as the flu, which may adversely affect our workforce as well as our local suppliers and customers; and•potentially burdensome taxation and changes in foreign tax laws.International financial crisis and conflicts may create many economic and political uncertainties that impact the global economy and could negatively impact our operations and demand for our products.In certain of the countries where we sell our products, effective protections for patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets may be unavailable or limited in nature and scope as compared to the level of protection available in the United States. In addition, as we target increased sales in Asia, differing levels of protection of our intellectual property in Asian countries could have a significant negative impact on our business. The laws, the enforcement of laws or our efforts to obtain and enforce intellectual property protections in any of these jurisdictions may not be sufficient to protect our intellectual property. As a result, we may lose some or all of the competitive advantage we have over our competitors in such countries.A majority of our products are manufactured in Asia, primarily in China, Malaysia, Taiwan and Korea. Any of the factors set forth above impacting these countries, or any other conflict or uncertainty in these countries, including due to political unrest, public health or safety concerns or natural disasters (such as earthquakes), could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if the government of any country in which our products are manufactured or sold sets technical standards for products made in or imported into their country that are not widely shared, it may lead certain of our customers to suspend imports of their products into that country, require manufacturers in that country to manufacture products with different technical standards and disrupt cross-border manufacturing partnerships which, in each case, could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights or demands that we license third-party technology, which could impair our freedom to operate or result in significant expense to defend against such claims or obtain a license to such technology.From time to time, third parties may and do assert against us their patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights relating to technologies that are important to our business. Any claims that our products or processes infringe these rights (including claims arising through our contractual indemnification of our customers and collaborators), regardless of their merit or resolution, could be costly and may divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. We may not prevail in such proceedings given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. If such proceedings result in an adverse outcome, we could be required to:21Table of Contents•pay substantial damages (potentially treble damages in the United States, including royalties on sales of our products);•cease the manufacture, use or sale of the infringing products or processes;•discontinue the use of the infringing technology;•expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology;•license technology from the third party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or may not be available at all;•comply with the terms of import restrictions imposed by the International Trade Commission (ITC), or similar administrative or regulatory authority; or•forego the opportunity to license our technology to others or to collect royalty payments based upon successful protection and assertion of our intellectual property against others.Any of the foregoing could affect our ability to compete or otherwise have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We depend heavily on intellectual property rights to protect our technologies and products.We depend heavily on patents and other intellectual property rights to protect our products and proprietary design and fabrication processes against infringement or misappropriation by others and to ensure that we have the ability to generate royalty and other licensing revenue. We rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as on nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies. Protection of our patent portfolio and other intellectual property rights is very important to our operations. We intend to continue to license our intellectual property to third parties. On a selective basis we may also sell or enter into other business arrangements with third parties relative to individual patents or portfolios of patents. We have a broad portfolio of over 6,000 patent families and numerous licenses, covering manufacturing processes, packaging technology, software systems and circuit design. A patent family includes all of the equivalent patents and patent applications that protect the same invention, covering different geographical regions. We cannot ensure that any of our currently filed or future patent applications will result in issued patents, or even if issued, predict the scope of the claims that may result from our patents. We do not believe that any individual patent, or the expiration thereof, is or would be material to our business.We may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property rights or developing or licensing intellectual property, which may harm our ability to compete and may have a material negative impact on our results of operations.We generate revenue from licensing or selling our patents and technologies to third parties. Our future intellectual property revenue depends in part on the continued strength of our intellectual property portfolio and enforcement efforts, a healthy marketplace for the transaction of intellectual property rights and the sales and financial stability of our licensees. In the past, we have found it necessary to engage in litigation with other companies to force those companies to execute license agreements with us or prohibit their use of our intellectual property. Some of these proceedings did, and future proceedings may, require us to expend significant resources and to divert the efforts and attention of our management from our business operations. Changes in the laws or judicial precedents of the United States or other countries that make it more difficult to enforce patents or affect the valuation of patents, or the prospect of such changes, could negatively impact revenues from licensing or selling our patents. In connection with our intellectual property:•the steps we take to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property may not be successful;•our existing or future patents may be challenged, limited, invalidated or circumvented; and•the measures described above may not provide meaningful protection or meaningful incentive for others to respect our intellectual property rights.Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization, develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. Our trade secrets may be vulnerable to disclosure or misappropriation by employees, contractors and other persons. Further, we may not be able to obtain patent protection or secure other intellectual property rights in all the countries in which we operate, and under the laws of such countries, enforcement of patents and other intellectual property rights may be unavailable or limited in scope. The laws of certain countries in which we manufacture and design our products do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. In the Office of the USTR annual “Special 301” Report released on May 2013, the adequacy and effectiveness of intellectual property protection in a number of foreign countries were analyzed. The report indicated that particular problems exist in China and India, among others, with respect to intellectual property rights protection, enforcement or market access for persons relying on intellectual property. The USTR report noted that despite signs of progress, protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in China remain a significant challenge, and in India, the report noted a weak legal framework and enforcement system for intellectual property rights. No other countries in which we have material operations are named in this report to the "Priority Watch List", and we believe that we have disclosed the differences in intellectual property protections of the countries material to these operations that could have a material adverse 22Table of Contentsimpact on our business. The absence of consistent intellectual property protection laws and effective enforcement mechanisms makes it difficult to ensure adequate protection for our technologies and other intellectual property rights on a worldwide basis. As a result, it is possible for third parties to use our proprietary information in certain countries without us having the ability to fully enforce our rights in those countries, which could negatively impact our business in a material way. If our patents or trade secrets fail to protect our technology, we could lose some or all of our competitive advantage, which would enable our competitors to offer similar products. Any inability on our part to adequately protect our intellectual property may have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We obtain some of the intellectual property we use in our operations through license agreements with third parties. Some of these license agreements contain provisions that may require the licensor's consent to remain in effect after a change of control. If we are unable to obtain any required consents under any license agreements in the event of a change of control, our rights to use intellectual property licensed under those agreements may be at risk. If any license agreements are terminated or expire, we could lose the right to use the subject intellectual property, which could result in a negative impact on our ability to manufacture and sell some of our existing products.Our operating results are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations.Our net sales and operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations are due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others:•changes in end-user demand for the products manufactured and sold by our customers;•the timing of receipt, reduction or cancellation of important orders by customers;•fluctuations in the levels of component inventories held by our customers;•the gain or loss of significant customers;•the inventory levels maintained by, performance of and our relationship with our key distributors;•market acceptance of our products and our customers’ products;•our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and technologies on a timely basis;•the timing and extent of product development costs;•new product and technology introductions by competitors;•fluctuations in manufacturing yields;•availability and cost of products from our suppliers;•changes in our product mix, customer mix or levels of intellectual property revenue;•intellectual property disputes;•natural disasters, such as floods, hurricanes and earthquakes, as well as interruptions in power supply resulting therefrom or due to other causes;•loss of key personnel or the shortage of available skilled workers;•the effects of competitive pricing pressures, including decreases in average selling prices of our products;•the effects of adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and international markets, including the recent crisis in global credit and financial markets;•the effectiveness of our efforts to refocus our operations and reduce our cost structure;•manufacturing, assembly and test capacity; and•our ability to hire, retain and motivate key employees to meet the demands of our customers.The foregoing factors are difficult to forecast, and these, as well as other factors, could have a material negative impact on our quarterly or annual operating results. In addition, a majority amount of our operating expenses is relatively fixed in nature due to our research and development and manufacturing costs. If we cannot adjust spending quickly enough to compensate, it could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our products may be subject to product liability and warranty claims, which could be expensive and could divert management’s attention.We make highly complex electronic components and, accordingly, there is a risk that defects may occur in any of our products. Such defects may damage our reputation and can give rise to significant costs, including expenses relating to recalling products, replacing defective items, writing down defective inventory, delays in, cancellations of, rescheduling or return of orders or shipments and loss of potential sales. In addition, the occurrence of such defects may give rise to product liability and warranty claims, including liability for damages caused by such defects. We typically provide warranties on products we manufacture for a period of three years from the date of sale. These warranties typically provide that, on the date of shipment, our products will be free from defects in material and workmanship and will conform to our approved specifications. Subject to certain customary conditions, in the event of a defect, we will either refund the purchase price or 23Table of Contentsrepair or replace the product with the same or equivalent product at our cost. If we release defective products into the market, our reputation could suffer and we could lose sales opportunities and become liable to pay damages. Moreover, since the cost of replacing defective semiconductor devices is often much higher than the value of the devices themselves, we may at times face damage claims from customers in excess of our warranty obligations or the amounts they pay us for our products, including consequential damages.We also face exposure to potential liability resulting from the fact that our customers typically integrate the semiconductors we sell into numerous products, which are then in turn sold into the marketplace. We may be named in product liability claims even if there is no evidence that our products caused a loss. Product liability claims could result in large expenses relating to defense costs or damages awards. In particular, the sale of systems and components for the transportation and medical industries involves a high degree of risk that such claims may be made. In addition, we may be required to participate in a recall if any of our systems prove to be defective, or we may voluntarily initiate a recall or make payments related to such claims as a result of various industry or business practices or in order to maintain good customer relationships. Each of these actions would likely harm our reputation and lead to substantial expense. Any product recall or product liability claim could have a material negative impact on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations.We may be subject to liabilities as a result of personal injury claims based on alleged links between the semiconductor manufacturing process and certain illnesses and birth defects.In the last few years, there has been increased litigation, media scrutiny and associated reports focusing on an alleged link between working in semiconductor manufacturing clean room environments and certain illnesses and birth defects. Because we utilize these clean rooms, we may become subject to liability as a result of current and future claims alleging personal injury. A judgment against us or material defense costs could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.The failure to complete our transformation programs and the impact of activities taken under the programs could adversely affect our business.During 2012, following the appointment of Gregg Lowe as president and Chief Executive Officer (CEO), the company completed a detailed review of its strategic direction with the overall objective of identifying opportunities that would accelerate revenue growth and improve profitability. As a result of this review, we executed a new reorganization of business program to re-allocate research and development expenses, re-distribute sales resources and add new management to the company. During 2013, we have continued to implement steps related to this transformation program, and we continue to assess the progress of this program. The redirection of research and development resources may impact on our net sales if changes to our strategic business plan cause speculation and uncertainty among customers regarding our future business strategy and direction. There may be unforeseeable and unintended factors or consequences that could adversely impact our business related to this transformation program.We have recorded significant charges for reorganization of business activities in the past and may do so again in the future, which could have a material negative impact on our business.In the past, we recorded significant cash costs for restructuring and non-cash asset impairment charges relating to our efforts to consolidate manufacturing operations and streamline our global organizational structure. In 2013 and 2012, we recorded cash and non-cash charges of $31 million and $52 million, respectively, in connection with reallocating research and development resources, realigning sales resources along with other activities associated with the implementation of the strategic plan initiated in the fourth quarter of 2012. Due to a combination of the constant and rapid change experienced in the semiconductor industry, we may incur cash costs for employee termination and exit costs and non-cash asset impairment charges in the future and such charges may have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.From time to time we may also decide to divest product lines and businesses or restructure our operations, including through the contribution of assets to joint ventures. However, our ability to successfully extricate ourselves from product lines and businesses, or to close or consolidate operations, depends on a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. For example, if we are seeking a buyer for a particular product line, none may be available. In some cases, particularly with respect to our European operations, there may be laws or other legal impediments affecting our ability to carry out such sales or restructuring. As a result, we may be unable to exit a product line or business, or to restructure our operations, in a manner we deem to be advantageous.We may engage in acquisitions, joint ventures and other transactions intended to complement or expand our business. We may not be able to complete these transactions and, if executed, these transactions could pose major risks and could have a negative effect on our operations.Our future success may be dependent on opportunities to enter into joint ventures and to buy other businesses or technologies that could complement, enhance or expand our current business or products or that we believe might otherwise 24Table of Contentsoffer us growth opportunities. If we are unable to identify suitable targets, our growth prospects may suffer, and we may not be able to realize sufficient scale advantages to compete effectively in all markets. In addition, in pursuing acquisitions, we may face competition from other companies in the semiconductor industry. Our ability to acquire targets may also be limited by applicable antitrust laws and other regulations in the United States, the European Union and other jurisdictions in which we do business. To the extent that we are successful in making acquisitions, we may have to expend substantial amounts of cash, incur debt, assume loss-making divisions and incur other types of expenses. We may not be able to complete such transactions for reasons including, but not limited to, a failure to secure financing or as a result of restrictive covenants in our debt instruments. Any transactions that we are able to identify and complete may involve a number of risks, including:•the diversion of our management’s attention from our existing business to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired or combined business or joint venture;•negative impacts on our operating results during the integration process; and•our inability to achieve the intended objectives of the transaction.In addition, we may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage our newly acquired operations or employees. We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, and this may lead to operational inefficiencies.Loss of our key management and other personnel, an inability to attract key management and other personnel, or an unsuccessful transition of key responsibilities could impact our business.We depend on our senior executive officers and other key personnel to run our business and on technical experts to develop new products and technologies. Turnover in these positions could adversely affect our operations. Competition for qualified employees among companies that rely heavily on engineering and technology is intense, and the loss of qualified employees or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional highly skilled employees required for the operation and expansion of our business could hinder our ability to conduct research and development activities successfully and develop marketable products.Our Chief Financial Officer, Alan Campbell, announced in January of 2014 his intent to retire after a transition to his successor. We may have difficulty attracting or hiring talented and skilled candidates which may delay the transition. We have also recently experienced transitions in certain members of our executive management team, including the roles of our General Counsel and Chief Sales and Marketing Officer. An unsuccessful transition of the key responsibilities of these or other executive roles may disrupt our business and distract our management and employeesOur results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in tax-related matters.We conduct operations in more than 30 countries worldwide and as a result are subject to taxation and audit by a number of taxing authorities. Tax rates vary among the jurisdictions in which we operate. Changes in tax laws, regulations, and related interpretations in the countries in which we operate may adversely affect our results of operations. Our results of operations could also be affected by market opportunities or decisions we make that cause us to increase or decrease operations in one or more countries, or by changes in applicable tax rates or audits by the taxing authorities in countries in which we operate.In addition, we are subject to laws and regulations in various jurisdictions that determine how much profit has been earned and when it is subject to taxation in that jurisdiction. Changes in these laws and regulations could affect the locations where we are deemed to earn income, which could in turn adversely affect our results of operations. We have deferred tax assets on our balance sheet. Changes in applicable tax laws and regulations or in our business performance could affect our ability to realize those deferred tax assets, which could also adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.We currently operate under tax holidays and favorable tax incentives in certain foreign jurisdictions. Such tax holidays and incentives often require us to meet specified employment and investment criteria in such jurisdictions. We cannot ensure that we will continue to meet such criteria or enjoy such tax holidays and incentives, or realize any net tax benefits from these tax holidays or incentives. If any of our tax holidays or incentives are terminated, our results of operations may be materially and negatively impacted.We are subject to environmental, health and safety laws, which could increase our costs and restrict our operations in the future.Our operations are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate that govern, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges, the use, handling and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, soil and groundwater contamination and employee health and safety. We could incur considerable costs as a result of any failure by us to comply with, or any liability we may incur under, environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including the limitation or suspension of production, monetary fines or civil or criminal sanctions, clean-up costs or other future liabilities in excess of our reserves. We are also subject to laws and regulations governing the recycling of our products, the materials that may be included in our products, and our obligation to dispose of our products at the end of their useful life. For example, the European Directive 2002/95/Ec on restriction of hazardous substances (RoHS Directive) bans 25Table of Contentsplacing new electrical and electronic equipment containing more than specified levels of lead and other hazardous compounds on the European Union market. As more countries enact requirements like the RoHS Directive, and as exemptions are phased out, we could incur substantial additional costs to convert the remainder of our portfolio, conduct required research and development, alter manufacturing processes, or adjust supply chain management. Such changes could also result in significant inventory obsolescence. In addition, compliance with environmental, health and safety requirements could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or require us to acquire costly pollution control equipment, incur other expenses or modify our manufacturing processes. We also are subject to cleanup obligations at certain properties. In the event of the discovery of new or previously unknown contamination, additional requirements with respect to existing contamination, or the imposition of other cleanup obligations at these or other sites for which we are responsible, we may be required to take remedial or other measures that could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.In addition to the costs of complying with environmental, health and safety requirements, we have incurred, are currently incurring, and may in the future incur, costs defending against environmental litigation brought by government agencies and private parties. We have been, are, and may be in the future, defendants in lawsuits brought by parties in the future alleging environmental damage, personal injury or property damage. A significant judgment against us could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.We rely on manufacturing capacity located in geologically unstable areas, which could affect the availability of supplies and services to us and our customers. Certain natural disasters, such as coastal flooding, large earthquakes or volcanic eruptions in those or other areas, may negatively impact our business.We rely on internal manufacturing capacity, wafer fabrication foundries, logistics providers and other suppliers and sub-contractors in geologically unstable locations around the world. If coastal flooding, a large earthquake, volcanic eruption or other natural disaster were to directly damage, destroy or disrupt one of our manufacturing facilities, or those of our providers, subcontractors or third-party wafer fabrication foundries, it could disrupt our operations, cause temporary loss of capacity, delay new production and shipments of existing inventory or result in costly repairs, replacements or other costs, all of which would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also be forced to move production to another manufacturing facility, which could result in additional production delays and unanticipated costs due to product requalification requirements, required modifications to the new facility to support production or other production challenges resulting from the transition. In addition, a large natural disaster may result in disruptions in our supply chains, including the availability and cost of key raw materials, utilities and equipment and other key services, which could negatively impact our business. Even if we are not directly impacted, such disruptions to our customers could result in decreased demand for our products, which could negatively impact our net sales and margins. Any prolonged inability to utilize one of our manufacturing facilities, or those of our subcontractors or third-party wafer fabrication foundries, or any disruption in the operations of our logistic providers as a result of fire, natural disaster, unavailability of utilities or otherwise, could have a material negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The impact of such occurrences depends on the specific geographic circumstances but could be serious, as some of our facilities and our suppliers' facilities are located in geologically unstable locations including China, Malaysia and Taiwan.For example, our wafer fabrication facility in Sendai, Japan was seriously damaged in 2011 by a 9.0-magnitude earthquake which struck off the coast of Japan near that city. As a result of the significant damage and our previously announced plans to close the facility at the end of 2011, we decided not to reopen the facility following the earthquake. During 2011 and 2012, we incurred asset impairment, inventory charges, employee termination benefits, contract termination and other on-going closure costs associated with earlier than expected closure of our Sendai, Japan facilities.Breaches of our information technology systems could adversely affect our operating results and our reputation.We may be subject to breaches of our information technology systems caused by computer viruses, unauthorized access, sabotage, vandalism or terrorism. The compromise of our information technology systems could result in a disruption to our manufacturing and other operations, unauthorized release of our, our customers' or our suppliers' confidential or proprietary information, or the release of employee personal data, any of which could adversely affect our operating results and our reputation.Our Sponsors control us and may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other shareholders.Our Sponsors control Freescale Holdings L.P., a Cayman Island limited partnership, ("Freescale LP"), which owns approximately 76% of our outstanding common shares. In addition, each of our four Sponsors has the contractual right to select two individuals to serve on our Board of Directors (the “Board”). As a result, our Sponsors control our Board and will be able to influence or control all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including:•the election of directors;•mergers, amalgamations, consolidations, takeovers or other business combinations involving us;•the sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other decisions affecting our capital structure;26Table of Contents•the amendment of our memorandum of association and our bye-laws; and•our winding up and dissolution.In addition, we are parties to the shareholders agreement with our Sponsors and Freescale LP that provides, among other things, that for so long as Freescale LP and our Sponsors collectively own, in the aggregate, at least 50% of our outstanding common shares, certain actions by us or our subsidiaries will require the approval of at least a majority of our Sponsors acting through their respective director designees in addition to any other vote by our Board or shareholders. The actions requiring Sponsor approval include change of control transactions, the acquisition or sale of any asset in excess of $150 million, the incurrence of indebtedness in excess of $250 million, making any loan, advance or capital contribution in excess of $150 million, equity issuances in excess of $25 million, the approval and registration of equity securities in connection with a public offering, changes in the nature of our or our subsidiaries’ business, changes to our jurisdiction of incorporation, hiring or removing the CEO, the commencement or settlement of any litigation over $50 million and changing the number of directors on the Board.The contractual rights and significant ownership by the Sponsors may delay, deter or prevent acts that may be favored by our other shareholders, including a change of control of us. The interests of the Sponsors may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of our other shareholders, and the Sponsors may seek to cause us to take courses of action that, in their judgment, could enhance their investment in us, but which might involve risks to our other shareholders or adversely affect us or our other shareholders.Our Sponsors are also in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Our Sponsors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that are complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as our Sponsors, or other funds controlled by or associated with our Sponsors, have these contractual rights or continue to indirectly own a significant amount of our issued and outstanding common shares, even if such amount is less than 50%, our Sponsors will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions.We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the rules of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), and, as a result, we qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Our shareholders do not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to such requirements.Our Sponsors control a majority of the voting power of our issued and outstanding common shares through their ownership of Freescale LP. As a result, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the corporate governance standards of the NYSE. Under these rules, a listed company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, group or another company is a “controlled company” and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including:•the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors;•the requirement that the listed company have a nomination and corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors;•the requirement that the listed company have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors; and•the requirement for an annual performance evaluation of the nomination and corporate governance and compensation committees.As a controlled company, these exemptions are available to us. Therefore, we do not have a majority of independent directors, our nomination and corporate governance committee and compensation committee do not consist entirely of independent directors and such committees are not required to conduct annual performance evaluations. Accordingly, our shareholders do not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE.We are a Bermuda company and it may be difficult for you to enforce judgments against us or certain of our directors or officers.We are a Bermuda exempted company. The significance of our being a Bermuda company is that the rights of holders of our common shares will be governed by Bermuda law and our memorandum of association and bye-laws. The rights of shareholders under Bermuda law may differ from the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in other jurisdictions. In addition, one of our directors is not a resident of the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process on such director or any future non-resident directors or officers in the United States or to enforce in the United States judgments obtained in U.S. courts against us or those persons based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. Uncertainty exists as to whether courts in Bermuda will enforce judgments obtained in other jurisdictions, including the United States, against us or our directors or officers under the securities laws of those jurisdictions or entertain actions in Bermuda against us or our directors or officers under the securities laws of other jurisdictions. We have been advised by Conyers Dill & Pearman Limited, our special 27Table of ContentsBermuda counsel, that there is no treaty in effect between the United States and Bermuda providing for enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts and that there are grounds upon which Bermuda courts may not enforce judgments of U.S. courts.Furthermore, we have been advised by Conyers Dill & Pearman Limited, our special Bermuda counsel, that the Bermuda courts will not recognize or give effect to U.S. federal securities laws that such Bermuda courts consider to be procedural in nature, are revenue or penal laws or the application of which would be inconsistent with public policy in Bermuda. Certain remedies available under the laws of U.S. jurisdictions, including certain remedies under U.S. federal securities laws, will not be recognized or given effect to in any action brought before a court of competent jurisdiction in Bermuda where the application of such remedies would be inconsistent with public policy in Bermuda. Further, no claim may be brought in Bermuda against us or our directors and officers in the first instance for violations of U.S. federal securities laws because those laws do not have force of law in Bermuda. A Bermuda court may, however, impose civil liability on us or our directors and officers if the facts alleged in a complaint constitute or give rise to a cause of action under Bermuda law. Shareholders of a Bermuda company may have a cause of action against the company or its directors for breach of any duty in the bye-laws or any shareholder’s agreement owed personally by the company to the shareholder. Directors of a Bermuda company may be liable to the company for breach of their duties as directors to that company under the Companies Act 1981, as amended, of Bermuda (the “Companies Act”) and at common law. Such actions must, as a general rule, be brought by the company. Where the directors have carried on an act which is ultra vires or illegal, then the shareholder has the right, with leave of the court, to bring a derivative action to sue the directors on behalf of the company with any damages awarded going to the company itself. Shareholders are also able to take action against a company if the affairs of the company are being conducted in a manner which is oppressive or unfairly prejudicial to the shareholders or some number of them and to seek either a winding-up order or an alternative remedy, if a winding-up order would be unfairly prejudicial to them.Our bye-laws restrict shareholders from bringing legal action against our officers and directors.Our bye-laws contain a broad waiver by our shareholders of any claim or right of action, both individually and on our behalf, against any of our officers or directors. The waiver applies to any action taken by an officer or director, or the failure of an officer or director to take any action, in the performance of his or her duties, except with respect to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the officer or director. This waiver limits the right of shareholders to assert claims against our officers and directors unless the act or failure to act involves fraud or dishonesty.Our bye-laws contain a provision renouncing our interest and expectancy in certain corporate opportunities, which could adversely affect our business or prospects.Our bye-laws provide that, except as otherwise agreed in writing by the Sponsors and their affiliates and us, (i) each Sponsor shall have the right to, and shall have no duty not to, engage in the same or similar business activities or lines of business as us, including those deemed to be competing with us, and (ii) in the event that a Sponsor or any of its affiliates acquires knowledge of a potential transaction or matter that may be a corporate opportunity for us, the Sponsor shall have no duty (contractual or otherwise) to communicate or present such corporate opportunity to us, unless presented to an employee or agent of the Sponsor in its capacity as one of our directors or officers, and shall not be liable for breach of any duty (contractual or otherwise) by reason of the fact that the Sponsor or any of its affiliates directly or indirectly pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person, or does not present such opportunity to us. In addition, the shareholders agreement that we have entered into with our Sponsors and Freescale LP contains substantially identical provisions with respect to corporate opportunities as the provisions in our bye-laws described above. As a result, we may be in competition with our Sponsors or their affiliates, and we may not have knowledge of, or be able to pursue, a transaction that could potentially be beneficial to us. Accordingly, we may lose a corporate opportunity or suffer competitive harm, which could negatively impact our business or prospects.We have provisions in our bye-laws that may discourage a change of control.Our bye-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board. These include, among others:•restrictions on the time period in which directors may be nominated;•no provision in our bye-laws for cumulative voting in the election of directors, which means that the holders of a majority of the issued and outstanding common shares can elect all the directors standing for election; and•the ability of our board of directors to determine the powers, preferences and rights of our preference shares and to issue preference shares without shareholder approval.These provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if the third party’s offer may be considered beneficial by many shareholders. As a result, shareholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares.28Table of ContentsWe are a holding company and rely on dividends, distributions and other payments, advances and transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations.We have no direct operations and derive all of our cash flow from our subsidiaries. Because we conduct our operations through our subsidiaries, we depend on those entities for dividends and other payments or distributions to meet our operating needs. Legal and contractual restrictions in any existing and future outstanding indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur, including the senior credit facilities and the indentures governing Freescale Inc.’s senior notes, may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. The deterioration of the earnings from, or other available assets of, our subsidiaries for any reason could limit or impair their ability to pay dividends or other distributions to us.Item 1B: Unresolved Staff CommentsNot applicable.