Item 1A. Risk Factors We may be adversely affected by cyclicality or an extended downturn in the United States or worldwide economy, or in or related to the industries we serve.Our revenues are generated primarily from servicing customers seeking to hire qualified professionals in the technology and finance sectors. Demand for these professionals, and professionals in the other vertical industries we serve such as healthcare or energy, tends to be tied to economic and business cycles. Increases in the unemployment rate, specifically in the technology, finance and other vertical industries we serve, cyclicality or an extended downturn in the economy could cause our revenues to decline. For example, during the recession in 2001, employers reduced or postponed their recruiting efforts, including their recruitment of professionals in certain of the vertical industries we serve, such as technology. The 2001 economic recession, coupled with the substantial indebtedness incurred by our predecessor, Dice Inc., resulted in Dice Inc. filing for Chapter 11 protection in 2003. As of December 2010, the seasonally unadjusted U.S. unemployment rate was 5.3% for computer related occupations, 6.4% in the finance sector, 5.2% in the healthcare sector and 9.4% overall, seasonally adjusted. The increase in unemployment and decrease in recruitment activity experienced during 2008 and 2009 resulted in decreased demand for our services. During 2009 we experienced a 29% decline in revenues compared to 2008. The economic environment and recruitment activity improved during the latter half of 2009 and throughout 2010. However, if the economic environment experienced during 2008 and 2009 returns, our ability to generate revenue may be adversely affected.13Table of ContentsIn addition, the general level of economic activity in the regions and industries in which we operate significantly affects demand for our services. When economic activity slows, many companies hire fewer employees. Therefore, our operating results, business and financial condition could be significantly harmed by an extended economic downturn or future downturns, especially in regions or industr ies where our operations are heavily concentrated. Further, we may face increased pricing pressures during such periods as customers seek to use lower cost or fee services. Additionally, the labor market and certain of the industries we serve have historically experienced short term cyclicality. It is difficult to estimate the total number of passive or active job seekers or available job openings in the United States or abroad during any given period. If there is a labor shortage, qualified professionals may be less likely to seek our services, which could cause our customers to look elsewhere for attractive employees. Such labor shortages would require us to intensify our marketing efforts towards professionals so that professionals who post their resumes on our websites remain relevant to our customers, which would increase our expenses. Alternatively, if there is a shortage of available job openings, the number of job postings on our websites could decrease, causing our revenues to decline. Any economic downturn or recession in the United States or abroad for an extended period of time could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Based on historical trends, improvements in labor markets and the need for our services generally lag behind overall economic improvements. Additionally, there has historically been a lag from the time customers begin to increase purchases of our services and the impact to our revenues due to the recognition of revenue occurring over the length of the contract, which can be several months to a year.We operate in a highly competitive developing market and we may be unable to compete successfully against existing and future competitors.The market for career services is highly competitive and barriers to entry in the market are relatively low. For example, there are tens of thousands of job boards currently operating on the Internet, and new competitors may emerge. We do not own any patented technology that would preclude or inhibit competitors from entering the recruiting and career development services market. We compete with other companies that direct all or portions of their websites toward certain segments or sub segments of the industries we serve. We compete with generalist job boards, some of which have substantially greater resources and brand recognition than we do, such as CareerBuilder (owned by Gannett, Tribune, McClatchy and Microsoft) and Monster.com, which, unlike specialist job boards, permit customers to enter into a single contract to find professionals across multiple occupational categories and attempt to fill all their hiring needs through a single website, as well as job boards focuse d specifically on the industries we service, such as FT.com and ComputerJobs.com. We also compete with newspaper and magazine publishers, national and regional advertising agencies, executive search firms and search and selection firms that carry classified advertising, many of whom have developed, begun developing or acquired new media capabilities such as recruitment websites, or have recently partnered with generalist job boards. In addition, we face competition from aggregators of classified advertising, including SimplyHired, Indeed and Google; Craigslist. Social and professional networking sites, such as LinkedIn, compete with us in providing professional services. We also compete with new and emerging competitors with new business models and products that customers are more willing to try in periods of economic uncertainty. In addition, many of our customers also seek to recruit candidates directly by using their own resources, including corporate websites. Existing or future competitors may develop o r offer services that are comparable or superior to ours at a lower price, which could cause our customers to stop using our services or put pressure on us to decrease our prices. If our current or potential customers, or the qualified professionals who use our websites, choose to use these websites rather than ours, demand for our services could decline and our revenues could be reduced. Additionally, job postings and resume posting in the career services industry are not marketed exclusively through any single channel, and accordingly, our competition could aggregate a set of postings similar to ours. Our inability to compete successfully against present or future competitors could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.We must adapt our business model to keep pace with ra pid changes in the recruiting and career services business, including rapidly changing technologies and the development of new products and services.Providing recruiting and career development services on the Internet is a relatively new and rapidly evolving business, and we will not be successful if our business model does not keep pace with new trends and developments. The adoption of recruiting and job seeking, particularly among those who have historically relied on traditional recruiting methods, requires acceptance of a new way of conducting business, exchanging information and applying for jobs. The number of customers and professionals utilizing our services has increased from several years ago. If we are unable to adapt our business model to keep pace with changes in the recruiting business, or if we are unable to continue to demonstrate the value of our onlin e services to our customers, our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity could be materially adversely affected. Our success is also dependent on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technology and to make investments to develop new products and services. Accordingly, to maintain our competitive position and our revenue base, we must continually modernize and improve the features, reliability and functionality of our service offerings and related products in response to our competitors. Future technological advances in the career services industry may result in the availability of new recruiting and career development offerings or increase in the efficiency of our existing offerings. Many of our competitors have longer 14 Table of Contentsoperating histories, larger client bases, longer relationships with clients, greater brand or name recognition, or significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and public relations resources than we do. As a result, they may be in a position to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, and to develop and promote their products and services more effectively than we can. We may not be able to adapt to such technological changes or offer new products on a timely or cost effective basis or establish or maintain competitive positions. If we are unable to develop and introduce new products and services, or enhancements to existing products and services, in a time ly and successful manner, our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected.Many individuals are using devices other than personal computers to access the Internet. If users of these devices do not widely adopt solutions we develop for these devices, our business could be adversely affected.The number of people who access the Internet through devices other than personal computers, including mobile telephones, personal digital assistants, smart phones and handheld tablets or computers, has increased dramatically in the past few years and is projected to continue to increase. If we are unable to develop mobile solutions to meet th e needs of our users, our business could suffer. Additionally, as new devices and new platforms are continually being released, it is difficult to predict the problems we may encounter in developing versions of our solutions for use on these alternative devices, and we may need to devote significant resources to the creation, support, and maintenance of such devices.If we fail to develop and maintain our reputation and brand recognition our business could be adversely affected.We believe that establishing and maintaining the identity of our brands, such as Dice, eFinancialCareers, Rigzone, WorldwideWorker, AllHealthcareJobs, and ClearanceJobs, is critical in attracting and maintaining the numb er of professionals and customers using our services, and that the importance of brand recognition will increase due to the growing number of Internet services similar to ours and relatively low barriers to entry. Promotion and enhancement of our brands will depend largely on our success in continuing to provide high quality recruiting and career development services. If users do not perceive our existing career and recruiting services to be of high quality, or if we introduce new services or enter into new business ventures that are not favorably received by users, the uniqueness of our brands could be diminished and accordingly the attractiveness of our websites to professionals and customers could be reduced. We may also find it necessary to increase substantially our financial commitment to creating and maintaining a distinct brand loyalty among users. If we cannot provide high quality career services, fail to protect, promote and maintain our brands or incur excessive expenses in an attempt to improve o ur career services or promote or maintain our brands, our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity could be materially adversely affected.Our business is largely based on customers who purchase monthly or annual recruitment packages. Any failure to increase or maintain the number of customers who purchase recruitment packages could adversely impact our revenues.Our customers typically include recruiters, staffing firms, consulting firms and direct hiring companies. Customers can choose to purchase recruitment packages, classified postings or advertisements. Most of our revenues are generated by the fees we earn from our customers who purchase monthly or long-term recru itment packages. Our growth depends on our ability to retain our existing monthly and annual recruitment package customers and to increase the number of customers who purchase recruitment packages. Any of our customers may decide not to continue to use our services in favor of alternate services or because of budgetary constraints or other reasons. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in continuing to attract new customers or retaining existing customers or that our future sales efforts in general will be effective. If our existing customers choose not to use our services, decrease their use of our services, or change from being recruitment package customers to purchasing individual classified postings, our services, job postings and resumes posted on our websites could be reduced, search activity on our websites could decline, the usefulness of our services to customers could be diminished, and we could experience declining revenues and/or incur significant expenses. The economic downturn and dec rease in recruitment activity during 2008 and 2009 created a reduced need for our services from our customers; during the downturn, our revenues declined by 29% from 2008 to 2009. If we fail to attract qualified professionals to our websites or grow the number of qualified professionals who use our websites, our revenues could decline.The value of our websites to our customers is dependent on our ability to continuously attract professionals with the experience, education and skill-set our customers seek. For example, the professionals who post their resumes on Dice.com are highly educated, with, as of January 201 1, approximately 74% having a bachelor’s degree or higher. Our online surveys indicate that 78% of professionals who use Dice.com have more than five years of experience, greater than half have more than 10 years of experience and most are currently employed. To grow our businesses, we must continue to convince qualified professionals that our services will assist them in finding employment, so that customers will choose to use our services to find employees. We do not know the extent to which we have penetrated the market of qualified professionals in the industries we serve or the extent to which we will be able to grow the number of qualified professionals who use our websites. If we are 15Table of Contentsunable to increase the number of professionals using our websites, or if the professionals who use our websites are viewed as unattractive by our customers, our customers could seek to list jobs and search for candidates elsewhere, which could cause our revenues to decline.Capacity constraints, systems failures or breaches of our network security could materially and adversely affect our business.We derive almost all of our revenues from the purchase of recruitment products and services and employment advertising offered on our websites. As a result, our operations depend on our ability to maintain and protect our computer systems, most of which are located in redundant and independent systems in Urbandale, Iowa. Any system failure, including network, software or hardware failure that causes interruption or an increase in response time of our services, could substantially decrease usage of our services and could reduce the attractiveness of our services to both our customers and professionals. An increase in the volume of queries conducted through our services could strain the capacity of the software or hardware we employ. This could lead to slower response times or system failures and prevent users from accessing our websites for extended periods of time, thereby decreasing usage and attractiveness of our services. Our operations are dependent in part on our ability to protect our operating systems against: • physical damage from acts of God;• terrorist attacks or other acts of war;• power loss;• telecommunications failures;• network, hardware or software failures;• physical and electronic break-ins;• hacker attacks;•&nbs p; computer viruses or worms; and• similar events.Although we maintain insurance against fires, floods and general business interruptions, the amount of coverage may not be adequate in any particular case. Further more, the occurrence of any of these events could result in interruptions, delays or cessations in service to users of our services, which could materially impair or prohibit our ability to provide our services and significantly impact our business.Additionally, overall Internet usage could decline if any well publicized compromise of security occurs or if there is a perceived lack of security of information, including credit card numbers and other personal information. “Hacking” involves efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems or to cause intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment and online job boards, in particular, have been targeted by hackers who seek to gain unauthorized access to job seeker and customer data for purposes of implementing “phishing” or other schemes. Despite our implementation of firewalls, switchgear and other network security measures, our websites, servers, databases and other systems may be vulnerable to computer hackers, physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, computer viruses, worms and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. Our systems, like the systems of many other career websites, have been targeted in the past in cyber attacks and hacks and may continue to be subject to such attacks. We will continue to review and enhance our computer systems to try to prevent unauthorized and unlawful intrusions, but in the future it is possible that we may not be able to prevent all intrusions and such intrusions could result in our network security or computer systems being compromised and possibly result in the misappropriation or corruption of proprietary or personal information or cause disruptions in our services. We might be required to expend significant capital and resources to protect against, remedi ate or alleviate problems caused by such intrusions. We may also not have a timely remedy against a hacker who is able to penetrate our network security. Our networks could also be affected by computer viruses or other similar disruptive problems and we could inadvertently transmit viruses across our networks to our users or other third parties. Our hardware and back up systems could fail causing our services to be interrupted. Any of these occurrences, and negative publicity arising from any such occurrences, could harm our business or give rise to a cause of action against us. Our general business interruption insurance policies have limitations with respect to covering interruptions caused by computer viruses or hackers. We have not added specific insurance coverage to protect against these risks. Our activities and the activities of third party contractors involve the storage, use and transmission of proprietary and personal information, including personal information collected from professionals who use our websites. Accordingly, security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possibly liabilities. We cannot assure you that contractual provisions attempting to limit our liability in these areas will be successful or enforceable, or that other parties will accept such contractual provisions as part of our agreements. Any security breaches or our inability to provide users with continuous access to our networks could materially impact our ability to provide our services as well as materially impact the confidence of our customers in our services, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.16Table of ContentsWe may be liable with respect to the collection, storage and use of the personal information of our professionals and our current practices may not be in compliance with proposed new laws and regulations.Our business depends on our ability to collect, store, use and disclose personal data from the professionals who use our websites. Our policies concerning the collection, use and disclosure of personally identifiable information are described on our websites. In recent years, class action lawsuits have been filed and the Federal Trade Commission and state agencies have commenced investigations with respect to the collection, use, sale a nd storage by various Internet companies of users’ personal information. While we believe we are in compliance with current law, we cannot ensure that we will not be subject to lawsuits or investigations for violations of law. Moreover, our current practices regarding the collection, storage and use of user information may not be in compliance with currently pending legislative and regulatory proposals by the United States federal government and various state and foreign governments intended to limit the collection and use of user information. While we have implemented and intend to implement additional programs designed to enhance the protection of the privacy of our users, these programs may not conform to all or any of these laws or regulations and we may consequently incur civil or criminal liability for failing to conform. As a result, we may be forced to change our current practices relating to the collection, storage and use of user information. Our failure to comply with laws and regulations co uld also lead to adverse publicity and a loss of consumer confidence if it were known that we did not take adequate measures to assure the confidentiality of the personally identifiable information that our users had given to us. This could result in a loss of customers and revenue and materially adversely impact the success of our business. Concern among prospective customers and professionals regarding our use of personal information collected on our websites, such as credit card numbers, email addresses, phone numbers and other personal information, could keep prospective customers from using our career services websites. Internet-wide incidents or incidents with respect to our websites, including misappropriation of our users’ personal information, penetration of our network security, or changes in industry standards, regulations or laws could deter people from using the Internet or our websites to conduct transactions that involve confidential information, which could have a material adverse impac t on our business. Additionally, the EU has adopted a directive, and most of the EU states have adopted laws, that impose restrictions on the collection, use and disclosure of personal data concerning EU residents, and on any transfer of such data outside of the EU. In response to the directive and these laws, which prohibit the transfer of data to countries that are not deemed to have laws that adequately protect data subjects’ privacy rights, other countries have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations regarding the collection, use and disclosure of personal data that meet the EU’s standard for adequacy. Directives and privacy acts of these other countries may have an adverse effect on our ability to collect, use, disclose and transfer personal data from users in the applicable countries and consequently may have an adverse effect on our business.We have indebtedness which could affect our financial condition, and, given the current environment, we may not be able to borrow funds under our revolving credit facility or refinance our indebtedness. As of December 31, 2010, we had $41.0 million of outstanding indebtedness under our Credit Agreement and we had the ability to borrow an additional $48.0 million. Following the payment of $6.0 million in January 2011, we had $35.0 million of outstanding indebtedness under our Credit Agreement. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our debt, we may need to further refinance our debt, dispose of assets or issue equity to obtain necessary funds. We do not know whether we will be able to do any of this on a timely basis or on terms satisfactory to us or at all.Our Credit Agreement contains a revolving facility, the funding of which is dependent on three financial institutions. Given the uncertainty of the credit markets, it is possible that one or more of the lenders will refuse or be unable to satisfy their commitment to lend to us should we need to borrow funds under the revolving credit facility. If borrowings are unavailable to us and we cannot generate sufficient revenues to fund our operations, our business will be adversely affected. In addition, the inability to borrow could hinder growth if we need funds to complete an acquisition.Our indebtedness could limit our ability to: • obtain necessary additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures or other purposes in the future;• plan for, or react to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate;• make future acquisitions or pursue other business opportunities; and• react in an extended economic downturn.17Table of ContentsThe terms of our Credit Agreement may restrict our current and future operations, which would adversely affect our ability to respond to changes in our business and to manage our operations.Our Credit Agreement contains, and any future indebtedness of ours would likely contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt;• pay dividends and make other restricted payments;• create liens;• make investments and acquisitions;• engage in sales of assets and subsidiary stock;• enter into sale-leaseback transactions;• &nbsp ;enter into transactions with affiliates;• transfer all or substantially all of our assets or enter into merger or consolidation transactions;• reduce our cash balances below certain levels; and• make capital expenditures. Our Credit Agreement also requires us to maintain certain financial ratios. A failure by us to comply with the covenants or financial ratios contained in our Credit Agreement could result in an event of default under the facility which could adversely affect our ability to respond to changes in our business and manage our operations. In the event of any default under our Credit Agreement, the lenders under our Credit Agreement will not be required to lend any additional amounts to us. Our lenders also could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be due and payable and require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these amounts. If the indebtedness under our Credit Agreement were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay this indebtedness in full.Our history of operations includes periods of operating and net losses, and we may incur operating and net losses in the future. Our significant net losses in periods prior to 2003 and the significant amount of indebtedness incurred by our predecessor led us to declare bankruptcy in early 2003.We experienced operating and net losses from continuing operations of approximately $307,000 and $1.4 million, respectively, in the four month period ending December 31, 2005, due primarily to the negative impact of the deferred revenue adjustment we made at the time of the 2005 Acquisition and the increased amortization expense and interest expense incurred as a result of the 2005 Acquisition. Additionally, on a pro forma basis, we experienced a net loss from continuing operations of $3.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. If we continue to suffer operating and net losses the trading price of our common stock may decline significantly. In addition, we had net losses from continuing operations of $16.4 million in 2002, primarily as a result of a decline in demand for the products and services Dice Inc. offered stemming from the severe and extended downturn in the general labor market and more specifically the technology labor market that began in 2001, and also due to the significant amount of indebtedness Dice Inc.’s predecessor had incurred. As a result on February 14, 2003, Dice Inc. filed a voluntary petition for bankruptcy under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code (the “Joint Plan of Reorganization”). The Joint Plan of Reorganization was confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court on June 24, 2003, and became effective as of the close of business on June 30, 2003, at which point Dice Inc. emerged from bankruptcy. Although we have managed to achieve an increase in revenues since Dice Inc. emerged from b ankruptcy, we have also increased our operating expenses significantly, expanded our net sales and marketing operations, made significant acquisitions and have continued to develop and extend our online career services with the expectation that our revenues will grow in the future. We may not generate sufficient revenues to pay for all of these operating or other expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.If we are not able to successfully identify or integrate recent or future acquisitions our management’s attention could be diverted, and our efforts to integrate future acquisitions could consume significant resources.An important component of our strategy is to expand the geographic markets and the vertical sectors we serve and diversify the products and services we offer through the acquisition of other complementary businesses and technologies (for example, the 2010 WorldwideWorker and Rigzone acquisitions, the 2009 AllHealthcareJobs acquisition and the 2006 eFinancialGroup Acquisition). Our further growth may depend in part on our ability to identify additional suitable acquisition candidates and acquire them on terms that are beneficial to us. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or acquire them on favorable terms or at all. In addition, the anticipated results or operational benefits of any businesses we acquire may not be realized and we may not be successful in integrating other acquired business into our operations. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquired businesses could harm our business. Even if we are successful in making an acquisition, we may encounter numerous ris ks, including the following: 18Table of Contents• expenses, delays and difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies and products of acquired companies;• potential disruption of our ongoing operations;• diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business;• inability to maintain key business relationships and the reputations of acquired businesses;• the difficulty of integrating acquired technology and rights into our services and unanticipated expenses related to such integration;• the impairment of relationships with customers and partner s of the acquired companies or our customers and partners as a result of the integration of acquired operations;• the impairment of relationships with employees of the acquired companies or our employees as a result of integration of new management personnel;• entry into markets in which we have limited or no prior experience and in which our competitors have stronger market positions; • dependence on unfamiliar employees, affiliates and partners;• the amortization of the acquired company’s intangible assets;• insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associ ated with the acquisition;• inability to maintain our internal standards, controls, procedures and policies;• reduction or replacement of the sales of existing services by sales of products and services from acquired business lines;• potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies;• difficulties integrating the personnel and cultures of the acquired companies into our operations; • in the case of foreign acquisitions, uncertainty regarding foreign laws and regulations and difficulty integrating operations and systems as a result of cultural, systems and operation al differences; and• the impact of potential liabilities or unknown liabilities of the acquired businesses.If any of these risks materialize, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.In addition, any acquisition of other businesses or technologies may require us to seek debt or equity financing. Such financing might not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. The global financial markets have recently experienced declining equity valuations and disruptions in the credit markets due to liquidity imbalances and repricing of risk, which may impact our ability to obtain additional financing on reasonable terms, if at all.Our potential future growth may strain our resources.As our operations have expanded, we have experienced a rapid growth in our headcount. We grew from 169 employees at December 31, 2005 to 338 employees at December 31, 2010. Our rapid growth has demanded and will continue to demand substantial resources and attention from our management, including improving our operational and financial systems and expanding, training, retaining and managing our employee base. If we do not effectively manage our growth and expand, train, retain and manage our employee base, our customer service and responsiveness could suffer and our costs could increase, which could harm our brand, increase our expenses and reduce our profitability.Misappropriation or misuse of our intellectual property could harm our reputation, affect our competitive position and cost us money.Our success and ability to compete are dependent in part on the strength of our intellectual property rights, the content included on our websites, the goodwill associated with our trademarks, trade names and service marks and on our ability to use U.S. and foreign laws to protect them. Our intellectual property includes, among other things, the content included on our websites, our logos, brands, domain names, the technology that we use to deliver our products and services, the various databases of information that we maintain and make available and the appearance of our websites. We claim common law protection on certain names and marks that we have used in connection with our business activities and the content included on our websites. We also own a number of registered or applied for trademarks and service marks that we use in connection with our business, including DICE, CLEARANCEJOBS.COM, JOBSINTHEMONEY, EFINANCIALCAREERS and RIGZONE. Although we generally pursue the registration of material service marks and other material intellectual property we own, where app licable, we have copyrights, trademarks and/or service marks that have not been registered in the United States and/or other jurisdictions. We generally enter into confidentiality and work-for-hire agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors and customers to protect our intellectual property rights. We also seek to control access to and distribution of our technology, documentation and other proprietary information as well as proprietary information licensed from third parties. Policing our intellectual property rights worldwide is a difficult task, and we may not be able to identify infringing users. The steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate, and third parties could infringe, misappropriate or misuse our intellectual property rights. If this were to occur, it could harm our reputation and affect our competitive position. It could also require us to spend significant time and money in litigation. In addition, the laws of foreign countries do not necessarily protect 19Table of Contentsintellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. We have licensed in the past (on a royalty free basis), and expect to license in the future, various elements of our distinctive trademarks, service marks, trade dress, content and similar proprietary rights to third parties. We enter into strategic marketing arrangements with certain third party web site operators pursuant to which we license our trademarks, service marks a nd content to such third parties in order to promote our brands and services and to generate leads to our websites. While we attempt to ensure that the quality of our brands is maintained by these licensees, we cannot assure you that third party licensees of our proprietary rights will always take actions to protect the value of our intellectual property and reputation, which could adversely affect our business and reputation.We could be subject to infringement claims that may result in costly litigation, the payment of damages or the need to revise the way we conduct business.We cannot be certain that our technology, offerings, services or content do not or will not infringe upon the intellect ual property rights of third parties and from time to time we receive notices alleging potential infringement. In seeking to protect our marks, copyrights, domain names and other intellectual property rights, or in defending ourselves against claims of infringement that may or may not be without merit, we could face costly litigation and the diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Claims against us could result in the need to develop alternative trademarks, content, technology or other intellectual property or to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. If we were found to have infringed on a third party’s intellectual property rights, among other things, the value of our brands and our business reputation could be impaired, and our business could suffer.If we are unable to enforce or defend our ownership or use of intellectual property, our business, competitive position and operating results could be harmed.The success of our business depends in large part on our intellectual property rights, including existing and future trademarks and copyrights, which are and will continue to be valuable and important assets of our business. Our business could be harmed if we are not able to protect the content of our databases and our other intellectual property. We have taken measures to protect our intellectual property, such as requiring our employees and consultants with access to our proprietary information to execute confidentiality agreements. In the future, we may sue competitors or other parties who we believe to be infringing our intellectual pro perty. We may in the future also find it necessary to assert claims regarding our intellectual property. These measures may not be sufficient or effective to protect our intellectual property. We also rely on laws, including those regarding copyrights and trademarks to protect our intellectual property rights. Current laws, or the enforceability of such laws, specifically in foreign jurisdictions, may not adequately protect our intellectual property or our databases and the data contained in them. In addition, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in Internet related businesses are uncertain and evolving, and we cannot assure you of the future viability or value of any of our proprietary rights. Others may develop technologies similar or superior to our technology. A significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could require us to develop alternative intellectual property, incur licensing or other expenses or limit our p roduct and service offerings.We are controlled by two groups of principal stockholders, as well as management stockholders, whose interest in our business may be different than yours.Together, the Principal Stockholders beneficially own approximately 50% of our outstanding common stock as of January 31, 2011. Our Principal Stockholders together with certain of our officers and employees, which we refer to as the “Management Stockholders” beneficially own approximately 61%. Accordingly, together the Principal Stockholders and Management Stockholders can exercise significant influence over our business policies and affairs, including the composition of our board of directors, and over any action requiring the approval of our stockholders, including the adoption of amendments to our certificate of incorporation and the approval of mergers or sales of substantially all of our assets. The concentration of ownership of the Principal Stockholders may also delay, defer or even prevent an acquisition by a third party or other change of control of our company and may make some transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of the Principal Stockholders, even if such events are in the best interests of minority stockholders. In addition, in connection with our IPO, we entered into the Institutional and Management Shareholders Agreement, or the “Institutional Shareholder Agreement,” with the Principal Stockholders and Management Stockholders. In accordance with the Institutional Shareholder Agreement, each of the Principal Stockholders has the right to designate up to (1) three members of our board of directors if such Principal Stockholder owns 17.5% or more o f our common stock, (2) two members of our board of directors if it owns less than 17.5% but at least 10% of our common stock, and (3) one member of our board of directors if it owns less than 10% but at least 5% of our common stock. If a Principal Stockholder owns less than 5% of our common stock, it will no longer be entitled to designate members of our board of directors. Each Principal Stockholder has agreed to vote its shares in favor of the directors designated by the other Principal Stockholder in accordance with the terms of the agreement. Each Principal Stockholder will also have the right to designate one member of our Compensation Committee and one member of our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee if such Principal Stockholder owns at least 5% of our common stock. Our Institutional Shareholder Agreement and 20Table of Contentsour amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the doctrine of “corporate opportunity” will not apply against our Principal Stockholders in a manner that would prohibit them from investing in competing businesses or doing business with our clients and customers. To the extent they invest in such other businesses, they may have differing interests than our other stockholders.We are exempt from certain corporate governan ce requirements since we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NYSE rules and, as a result, our stockholders will not have the protections afforded by these corporate governance requirements.Together, the Principal Stockholders control more than 50% of the voting power of our common stock. As a result, we are considered a “controlled company” for the purposes of the NYSE listing requirements and therefore we are permitted to opt out of the NYSE listing requirements that would otherwise require our board of directors to have a majority of independent directors and our Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees to be comprised entirely of independent directors. For instance, our Chief Executive Officer is a member of our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. Additionally, the Institutional Shareholder A greement requires us to take advantage of the controlled company exemption to the extent it remains available. Accordingly, our stockholders do not have the same protection afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE governance requirements and the ability of our independent directors to influence our business policies and affairs may be reduced. To the extent that the Principal Stockholders own less than 50% of the voting power of our common stock, the Company would not be able to take advantage of the controlled company exemption.We have incurred increased costs and will continue to incur these costs as a result of being a public company.As a public company, we h ave incurred and will continue to incur significant levels of legal, accounting and other expenses. The Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes Oxley”) and related rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the “Commission,” and the NYSE regulate corporate governance practices of public companies and impose significant requirements relating to disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. Compliance with these public company requirements has increased our costs, required additional resources and made some activities more time consuming. We are required to expend considerable time and resources complying with public company regulations.If we do not meet the continued listing requirements of the NYSE our common stock may be delisted.Our common stock is listed on the NYSE. The NYSE requires us to continue to meet certain listing standards, including standards related to the trading price of our common stock (e.g., maintaining an average share price of at least $1.00), as well as our global market capitalization (e.g., maintaining an average global market capitalization of at least $75 million). During 2009, the closing price of our common stock on the NYSE ranged from $2.12 to $6.95. During 2010, the closing price of our common stock on the NYSE ranged from $5.71 to $14.70. While we are currently in compliance with the NYSE continued listing requirements, we cannot assure you that we will remain in compliance. If we do not meet the NYSE’s continued listing standards, we will be notified by the NYSE and we will be required to take corrective action to meet the continued listing standards; otherwise our common stock will be deliste d from the NYSE. A delisting of our common stock on the NYSE would reduce the liquidity and market price of our common stock and the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, which could negatively impact our ability to access the public capital markets. A delisting would also reduce the value of our equity compensation plans, which could negatively impact our ability to retain key employees.Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price.Maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and is important in helping to prevent financial fraud. If we are unable to maintain adequate internal controls, our business and operating results could be harmed. We are required to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of Sarbanes Oxley and the related rules of the Commission, which require, among other things, our management to assess annually the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our independent registered public accounting firm to issue a report on that assessment. We may be unable to remedy before the requisite deadline for those reports. Any failure to remediate deficiencies noted by our independent registered public accounting firm or to implement required new or improved controls or difficulties encountered in their implementation could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. If our management or our independent registered public accounting firm were to conclude in their reports that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our stock could drop significantly.21Table of ContentsWe are dependent on the continued service of key executives and technical personnel whose expertise would be difficult to replace and, if we fail to retain key executives and personnel, there could be a material ad verse effect on our business.Our performance is substantially dependent on the performance of senior management and key technical personnel. We have employment agreements, which include non-compete provisions, with all members of senior management and certain key technical personnel. However, we cannot assure you that any of these senior managers or others will remain with us or that they will not compete with us in the event they cease to be employees, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. In addition, we have not purchased key person life insurance on any members of our senior management. Our future success also depends upon our continuing ability to identify, attract, hire and retain highly qualified personnel, including skilled technical, management, product and technology, and sales an d marketing personnel, all of whom are in high demand and are often subject to competing offers. There has in the past been, and there may in the future be, a shortage of qualified personnel in the career services market. We also compete for qualified personnel with other companies. A loss of a substantial number of qualified employees, or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional highly skilled employees required for expansion of our business, could have a material adverse effect on our business.Our business is subject to U.S. and foreign government regulation of the Internet and taxation, which may have a material adverse effect on our business.Congress and various state and loc al governments, as well as the EU, have passed legislation that regulates various aspects of the Internet, including content, copyright infringement, user privacy, taxation, access charges, liability for third-party activities and jurisdiction. In addition, federal, state, local and foreign governmental organizations are also considering legislative and regulatory proposals that would regulate the Internet. Areas of potential regulation include libel, pricing, quality of products and services and intellectual property ownership. A number of proposals have been made at the state and local level that would impose taxes on the sale of goods and services through the Internet. Such proposals, if adopted, could substantially impair the growth of commerce over the Internet and could adversely affect our business, future results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. A law imposing a three-year moratorium on new taxes on Internet based transactions was enacted by Congress in October 1998. The moratorium w as extended by Congress three different times with the expiration now being in 2014. This moratorium relates to new taxes on Internet access fees and state taxes on commerce that discriminate against out-of-state websites. Sales or use taxes imposed upon the sale of products or services over the Internet are not affected by this moratorium. We may be subject to restrictions on our ability to communicate with our customers through email and phone calls. Several jurisdictions have proposed or adopted privacy related laws that restrict or prohibit unsolicited email or “spam.” These laws may impose significant monetary penalties for violations. For example, the CAN-SPAM Act of 2003, or “CAN-SPAM,” imposes complex and often burdensome requirements in connection with sending commercial email. Key provisions of CAN-SPAM have yet to be interpreted by the courts. Depending on how it is interpreted, CAN-SPAM may impose burdens on our email marketing practices or services we offer or may offer. Although CAN-SPAM is thought to have preempted state laws governing unsolicited email, the effectiveness of that preemption is likely to be tested in court challenges. If any of those challenges are successful, our business may be subject to state laws and regulations that may further restrict our email marketing practices and the services we may offer. The scope of those regulations is unpredictable. Because a number of these laws are relatively new and still in the process of being implemented, we do not know how courts will interpret these laws. Therefore, we are uncertain as to how new laws or the application of existing laws will affect our business. Increased regulation of the Internet may therefore reduce the use of the Internet, which could decrease demand for our services, increase our cost of doing business or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, f inancial condition and liquidity.We post our privacy policy and practices concerning the use and disclosure of user data on our websites. Any failure by us to comply with our posted privacy policy or other privacy-related laws and regulations could result in proceedings which could potentially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In this regard, there are a large number of legislative proposals before the United States Congress, various state legislative bodies as well as various European Union institutions, bodies and agencies regarding privacy issues related to our business. It is not possible to predict whether or when such legislation may be adopted, and certain proposals, if adopted, could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations through a decrease in user registrations and revenues. This coul d be caused by, among other possible provisions, the required use of disclaimers or other requirements before users can utilize our services.Due to the global nature of the Internet, it is possible that the governments of other states and foreign countries might attempt to regulate its transmissions or prosecute us for violations of their laws. We might unintentionally violate such laws or such laws may be modified and new laws may be enacted in the future. Any such developments (or developments stemming from enactment or modification of other laws) may significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition.22Table of ContentsWe face risks relating to our foreign operations.We operate websites serving 18 markets around the world. For the year ended December 31, 2010, approximately 23% of our total revenues were generated outside of the United States. Such amounts are collected in local currency. As a result of operating outside the United States, we are at risk for exchange rate fluctuations between such local currencies and the United States dollar, which could affect our results of operations. To date, we have not eng aged in exchange rate hedging activities. Even were we to implement hedging strategies to mitigate this risk, these strategies might not eliminate our exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations and would involve costs and risks of their own, such as ongoing management time and expertise, external costs to implement the strategies and potential accounting implications. We are also subject to taxation in foreign jurisdictions. In addition, transactions between our foreign subsidiaries and us may be subject to United States and foreign withholding taxes. Applicable tax rates in foreign jurisdictions differ from those of the United States, and change periodically. The extent, if any, to which we will receive credit in the United States for taxes we pay in foreign jurisdictions will depend upon the application of limitations set forth in the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the “Code,” as well as the provisions of any tax treaties that may exist between the United States and such foreign jurisdictions. Our current or future international operations might not succeed for a number of reasons including: • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations;• competition from local recruiting services or employment advertising agencies;• operational issues such as longer customer payment cycles and greater difficulties in collecting accounts receivable;• seasonal reductions in business activity;• language and cultural differences;< /table>• taxation issues;• foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating income earned in countries outside the United States;• multiple and conflicting laws and regulations, including complications due to unexpected changes in these laws and regulations;• the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations;• difficulties in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the United States; and td>• general political and economic trends. Our future growth depends on our ability to expand operations in international markets. We may have limited experience or we may need to rely on business partners in these markets, and our future growth will be materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in our international expansion efforts.We operate local websites in numerous markets around the world. Our future growth will depend significantly on our ability to expand our brands and product offerings in additional international markets. As we expand into new international markets, we may have only limited experience in marketing and operating our products and services in such markets. In other instances, we may have to rely on the efforts and abilities of foreign business partners in such markets. Certain international markets may be slower than domestic markets in adopting the online recruitment and advertising industry medium and, as a result, our operations in international markets may not develop at a rate that supports our level of investment. In addition, business practices in these new international markets may be unlike those in the other markets we serve and we may face increased exposure to fines and penalties under U.S. laws such as the Fore ign Corrupt Practices Act and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, we cannot be sure that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies. Any such violations could materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our business and our operating results.We may be impacted by unfavorable decisions in proceedings related to future tax assessments.We operate in a number of jurisdictions and are from time to time subject to audits and reviews by various taxation authorities with respect to income, payroll, sales and us e and other taxes and remittances, for current as well as past periods. We may become subject to future tax assessments by various authorities. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and current and deferred tax assets and liabilities requires judgment and estimation. There are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ materially from the tax amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements. Any amount we might be required to pay in connection with an ongoing audit or review or a future tax assessment may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows or overall results of operations.23Table of ContentsTaxation risks could subject us to liability for past sales and cause our future sales to decrease.We do not collect sales or other taxes on most of the services we provide in the U.S. Our operations, and any future expansion of them, along with other aspects of our evolving business, may result in additional sales and other tax obligations.Currently, the individu al states’ sales and use tax regulations determine which services performed over the Internet are subject to sales and use tax. A number of states have been considering or have adopted initiatives that could impose sales and use taxes on certain services delivered over the Internet. If these initiatives are successful, we could be required to collect sales and use taxes in additional states. Also, a state may take the position under existing tax regulations that certain services we provide are subject to sales tax under current regulations. The imposition by state and local governments of various taxes upon certain services delivered over the Internet could create administrative burdens for us, put us at a competitive disadvantage if they do not impose similar obligations on all of our online competitors and potentially decrease our future sales.We collect consu mption tax (including value added tax, goods and services tax, and provincial sales tax) as applicable on services sold by us on some of our international sites. Additional foreign countries may seek to impose sales or other tax collection obligations on us.A successful assertion by one or more states or foreign countries that we should collect sales or other taxes on the sale of services could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, decrease our ability to compete, and otherwise harm our business.A write-off of all or a part of our goodwill would hurt our operating results and reduce our net worth.We have significant intangible assets related to goodwill, which represents the excess of the total purchase price of our acquisitions over the estimated fair value of the net assets acquired. As of December 31, 2010, we had $176.4 million of goodwill on our balance sheet, which represented approximately 55% of our total assets. We are not permitted to amortize goodwill under U.S. accounting standards and instead are required to review goodwill at least annually for impairment. During 2008, goodwill of $7.2 million related to eFinancialCareers’ North American operations was written off. In the event impairment is identified again in the future for any of our reporting units, a charge to earnings would be recorded. Although it would not affect our cash flow or financial position, a write-off in future periods of all or a part of our goodwill would have a material adverse effect on our overall results of operations. See Item 7. “ Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies—Goodwill.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 