Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following factors and other information contained in this Form 10-K before deciding to invest in our common stock. We and our customers operate in a highly regulated industry that requires us and them to obtain, and to comply with, national, state and local government permits and approvals. We and our customers operate in a highly regulated environment. Our facilities are required to obtain, and to comply with, national, state and local government permits and approvals. Any of these permits or approvals may be subject to denial, revocation or modification under various circumstances. Failure to obtain or comply with the conditions of permits or approvals may adversely affect our operations by temporarily suspending our activities or curtailing our work and may subject us to penalties and other sanctions. Although existing licenses are routinely renewed by various regulators, renewal could be denied or jeopardized by various factors, including: •failure to provide adequate financial assurance for decommissioning or closure; •failure to comply with environmental and safety laws and regulations or permit conditions; •local community, political or other opposition; •executive action; and •legislative action. In addition, if new environmental legislation or regulations are enacted or existing laws or regulations are amended or are interpreted or enforced differently, we or our customers may be required to obtain additional operating permits or approvals. Changes in requirements imposed by our environmental or other permits may lead us to incur additional expenses by requiring us to change or improve our waste management technologies and services to achieve and maintain compliance. We may be unable to meet all potential regulatory changes. We and our customers operate in a politically sensitive environment, and the public perception of nuclear power and radioactive materials can affect our customers and us. We and our customers operate in a politically sensitive environment. The risks associated with radioactive materials and the public perception of those risks can affect our business. Various public interest groups and political representatives frequently oppose the operation of processing and disposal 30 Table of Contents sites for radioactive materials such as our Barnwell, South Carolina, Oak Ridge, Tennessee and Clive, Utah facilities. For example, public interest groups and the former governor of Utah have made public statements regarding their desire to limit the source and volume of radioactive materials that we process and dispose at our Clive facility. Representatives in Congress have introduced legislation to ban the importation of foreign waste, and public interest groups have argued for a moratorium or imposition of other restrictions on disposal of depleted uranium at our Clive facility. Depleted uranium is Class A waste that has been disposed at our Clive facility. The NRC has announced that it is undertaking a limited rulemaking to require the preparation of a site-specific analysis at sites that dispose of significant quantities of depleted uranium. Although preliminary NRC analyses indicate that our Clive facility will continue to be suitable for the disposal of depleted uranium, preparation of the site-specific analysis or other restrictions imposed in the interim could result in a delay or changes in how we dispose of depleted uranium at our Clive facility, which could adversely affect our business. If any regulatory, environmental or legislative efforts to limit or delay our operations at our current or future facilities were successful, then our business would be adversely affected. Opposition by third parties to particular projects can delay or prohibit the construction of new nuclear power plants and can limit the operation of nuclear reactors or the handling and disposal of radioactive materials. Adverse public reaction to developments in the use of nuclear power or the disposal of radioactive materials, including any high profile incident involving the discharge of radioactive materials, could directly affect our customers and indirectly affect our business. In the past, adverse public reaction, increased regulatory scrutiny and litigation have contributed to extended construction periods for new nuclear reactors, sometimes extending construction schedules by decades or more, contributing to the result that no new reactor has been ordered since the 1970s. Adverse public reaction also could lead to increased regulation or outright prohibition, limitations on the activities of our customers, more onerous operating requirements or other conditions that could have a material adverse impact on our customers and our business. In addition, we may seek to address public and political opposition to our business activities through voluntary limitations on our operations. For example, as part of our response to public statements made by public interest groups and the former governor of Utah regarding their desire to limit the source and volume of radioactive materials that we process and dispose at our Clive facility, we voluntarily agreed with the former governor to withdraw a request for a license amendment to increase our capacity at our Clive facility. We are also experiencing both local and national expressions of opposition to the importation of LLRW from international sources, including opposition articulated in U.S. congressional proposals and from the Northwest Compact. The Northwest Compact, which consists of Alaska, Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, Oregon, Utah, Washington, and Wyoming, was created pursuant to a federal statute that enables states to enter into interstate compacts for the purposes of managing LLRW. In response to this opposition, we have volunteered to limit the amount of foreign LLRW accepted at our Clive facility to a maximum of 5% of the total remaining facility capacity. We also filed a declaratory judgment action in the U.S. District Court in Utah seeking an order that the Northwest Compact does not have jurisdictional or regulatory authority over our Clive facility and that the Northwest Compact may not discriminate between domestic and foreign materials. See the discussion under "Legal Proceedings" for the current status of this litigation. Our actions to diffuse public and political opposition to our business can divert time and resources away from our core business operations and strategies, and may not have the consequences we intended. For instance, a ruling clarifying that Clive is not subject to the Northwest Compact may result in the proposal and/or passage of additional legislation or regulations governing our operations at Clive. Failure to achieve the intended results of our actions may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 31 Table of Contents Our business depends on the continued operation of, and adequate capacity at, our Clive, Utah facility. Our disposal facility in Clive, Utah is a strategic asset and is vital to our business. This facility is the largest privately owned commercial facility for the disposal of LLRW in the United States, and contributed 7.8% and 7.7% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Because of the greater profitability of the Clive facility in comparison with the rest of our business, a loss of revenue from Clive would have a disproportionate impact on our gross profit and gross margin. The Clive facility is subject to the normal hazards of operating any disposal facility, including accidents and natural disasters. In addition, access to the facility is limited, and any interruption in rail or other transportation services to and from the facility will affect our ability to operate the facility. Our Clive facility is highly regulated and subject to extensive licensing and permitting requirements and continuous air and ground water monitoring. Changes in federal, state or local regulations, including changes in the interpretation of those regulations, including regulations addressing the disposition of depleted uranium and the importation of foreign waste, can affect our ability to operate the facility. Depleted uranium is Class A waste that has been disposed at our Clive facility. The NRC has announced that it is undertaking a limited rulemaking to require a site-specific analysis at sites that dispose of significant quantities of depleted uranium. Although preliminary NRC analyses indicate that our Clive facility will continue to be suitable for the disposal of depleted uranium, the site-specific analysis or restrictions imposed in the interim could result in a delay or changes in how we dispose of depleted uranium at our Clive facility, which could adversely affect our business. The governor of Utah recently announced he had reached an agreement with the DOE not to ship any additional depleted uranium from the Savannah River site to the Clive facility until a site-specific assessment of the Clive facility can be completed. These and other actions by states or the federal government may affect the operation, capacity, expansion or extension of the Clive facility. The Northwest Compact also has asserted it has authority over our Clive facility and is seeking to restrict our ability to import foreign LLRW for disposal at the facility, and federal legislation has been introduced to prohibit the importation of foreign LLRW waste. Any of the foregoing actions may hinder, delay or stop shipments to the facility, which could seriously impair our ability to execute disposal projects and significantly reduce future revenues. We believe that we have sufficient capacity for more than 30 years of operations based on our estimate of future disposal volumes, our ability to optimize disposal capacity utilization and our assumption that we will obtain a license amendment to convert a disposal cell originally intended for 11e(2) material waste to Class A LLRW. The license amendment would increase our capacity for Class A LLRW disposal by 95 million cubic feet to approximately 148 million cubic feet. If we are unable to obtain the license amendment, our projected capacity to dispose of Class A LLRW would be materially reduced. If future disposal volumes increase beyond our expectations or if our other assumptions prove to be incorrect, then the remaining capacity at Clive would be exhausted more quickly than projected. Any interruption in our operation of the Clive facility or decrease in the effective capacity of the facility would adversely affect our business, and any prolonged disruption in the operation of the facility or reduction in the capacity or useful life of the facility would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly and may not meet our financial guidance or published analyst forecasts, which could have a negative effect on the price of our common stock. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly because of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control, including: •the seasonality of our contracts, the spending cycle of our government customers and the spending patterns of our commercial customers; •the number and significance of projects commenced and completed during a quarter; 32 Table of Contents •uncertainty in timing for receiving government contract awards; •our contract with the NDA, under which we generally recognize most efficiency fees in the first and fourth calendar quarter of each year; •unanticipated changes in contract performance, particularly with contracts that have funding limits; •the timing of resolutions of change orders, requests for equitable adjustments and other contract adjustments; •decisions by customers to terminate our contracts; •delays incurred in connection with a project; •seasonal variations in shipments of radioactive materials; •weather conditions that delay work at project sites; •the timing of expenses incurred in connection with acquisitions or other corporate initiatives; •staff levels and utilization rates; •changes in the prices of services offered by our competitors; and •general economic or political conditions. Fluctuations in quarterly results, lower than anticipated revenues or our failure to meet financial guidance or published analysts' forecasts, could have a negative effect on the price of our common stock. Our international operations involve risks that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2009 we derived 60.8% and 26.0% of our revenues and segment operating income, respectively, and for the year ended December 31, 2008, we derived 65.1% and 28.3% of our revenues and operating income, respectively, from our operations outside of North America. Our business is dependent on the success of our international operations, and we expect that our international operations will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenues. In addition to risks applicable to our business generally, our international operations are subject to a variety of heightened or distinct risks, including: •recessions or inflationary trends in foreign economies and the impact on government funding and our costs of doing business in those countries; •difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; •changes in regulatory requirements; •foreign currency fluctuations; •the adoption of new, and the expansion of existing, trade restrictions; •acts of war and terrorism; •the ability to finance efficiently our foreign operations; •social, political and economic instability; •increases in taxes; •limitations on the ability to repatriate foreign earnings; and 33 Table of Contents •natural disasters or other crises. Changes in existing environmental and other laws, regulations and programs could harm our business. A significant amount of our business of processing and disposing of radioactive materials derives directly or indirectly from existing national and state laws, regulations and programs related to pollution and environmental protection. National, state and local environmental legislation and regulations require substantial expenditures and impose liabilities for noncompliance. Accordingly, a real or perceived relaxation or repeal of these laws and regulations, or changes in government policies regarding the funding, implementation or enforcement of these programs, could result in a material decline in demand for nuclear services. The ultimate impact of any changes will depend upon a number of factors, including the overall strength of the economy and the industry's views on the cost-effectiveness of remedies available under the changed laws and regulations. Our operations are subject to taxation by the U.S. and U.K. governments, the State of Utah, Tooele County and other governmental entities. We currently benefit from net operating loss carryforwards and research and development credits to reduce our overall tax rate. The expiration of the net operating loss carryfowards, our inability to qualify for future tax credits or changes in governing rules and regulations could result in a material increase in our taxes and an increase in our effective tax rate. We may not have the ability to pass on the effect of such increase to our customers and, as a result, our stockholders could bear the burden of any such tax increase. The risk of a material tax increase may be exacerbated by political pressure to limit our operations. See "Risk Factors—We and our customers operate in a politically sensitive environment, and the public perception of nuclear power and radioactive materials can affect our customers and us." Our facilities are also subject to political actions by government entities which can reduce or completely curtail their operations. For example, the State of South Carolina closed the Barnwell disposal site on July 1, 2008 to customers outside of the Atlantic Compact States of South Carolina, New Jersey and Connecticut. Although the Barnwell closure did not have a significant impact on our revenues or net income, political pressures to reduce or curtail other operations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our life-of-plant contracts may not remain effective through a nuclear power plant's decontamination and decommissioning. Although our life-of-plant contracts are intended to provide us with revenue streams from the processing and disposal of substantially all LLRW and MLLW generated over the remaining lives of nuclear power plants operated by our commercial power and utility customers, and ultimately waste disposal revenue streams when the plants are shut down, these contracts may not actually remain effective for that entire period. A typical life-of-plant contract may terminate before D&D because the contract may: •have a shorter initial term than the useful life of the plant and the contract may not be extended by the utility; •include a provision that allows the customer to terminate the contract after a certain period of time or upon certain events; •allow for renegotiation of pricing terms if market conditions change; and •allow for renegotiation of pricing terms based on increases in taxes and pass-through or other costs. The early termination or renegotiation of a life-of-plant contracts may reduce our revenues and profits. In addition, life-of-plant contracts may expose us to liability in the event that government 34 Table of Contents bodies limit our ability to accept radioactive materials by capping the capacity of one or more of our disposal facilities or taking other actions that prevent us from disposing of LLRW and MLLW at our facilities or substantially increase the cost of doing so. We may not be successful in winning new business mandates from our government and commercial customers. We must be successful in winning new business mandates from our government and commercial customers to replace revenues from projects that are nearing completion and to increase our revenues. Our business and operating results can be significantly influenced by the size and timing of a single material contract. Our business strategy includes bidding on government contracts as a lead prime contractor or in a consortium. We expect to bid on a significant portion of the approximately $21.3 billion of federal nuclear services contracts that we estimate will be awarded within the next five years. In the past, we have operated primarily as a subcontractor or in a minority position on a prime contractor team. In pursuing a lead prime contractor role, we will be competing directly with a number of large national and regional nuclear services firms that may possess or develop technologies superior to our technologies and have greater financial, management and marketing resources than we do. Many of these companies also have long-established customer relationships and reputations. As a result, we may not be successful in being awarded the lead prime contractor role for any of these contracts. We may fail to win re-bids in the United Kingdom for the Magnox North and Magnox South decommissioning contracts currently held by our subsidiary RSMC. The NDA contracts held by RSMC through its subsidiaries, Magnox North Limited and Magnox South Limited, in relation to the Magnox North sites and the Magnox South sites currently extend through March 31, 2012 and are subject to re-bid by the NDA upon contract expiration. During the contract year ended March 31, 2009, RSMC recognized revenues of $1.1 billion from these contracts. We expect the competition for these contracts to be intense, and our failure to win the re-bid of either or both contracts would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Even if we win the re-bid, the participation of a partner could reduce our profits from these contracts. In addition, any limitations on our ability to import international waste to our Clive facility could reduce one of our competitive advantages in competing for these contracts. See "Risk Factors—We and our customers operate in a politically sensitive environment, and the public perception of nuclear power and radioactive materials can affect our customers and us." Investor lawsuits could adversely affect our business and financial position. Two purported class-action lawsuits were filed against us in October 2009. These lawsuits name the Company, current and prior directors of the Company, certain of our officers, the lead underwriters in our initial public offering and the July 2008 registered public offering, and ENV Holdings LLC, our former parent as defendants. Under our organizational documents and contractual agreements, we have indemnification obligations to all of the named defendants. The lawsuits allege that the registration statements and prospectuses for the two offerings contained inaccurate statements of material facts and omitted material information required to be disclosed therein. The lawsuits seek to certify a class consisting of all purchasers of our stock from November 14, 2007 through October 14, 2008. Our stock price varied from approximately $27.90 to $5.64 during that period. There may be additional similar lawsuits filed in the near future. If plaintiffs' are successful in certifying a class and establishing the allegations in the lawsuits, it could materially adversely affect our financial condition. Even if we are successful in defending against the allegations of the lawsuits, we may incur significant costs for legal fees and our indemnification obligations to other named defendants. We may also incur increased costs for renewal of our directors and officers' liability insurance. In addition, defense of the lawsuits will involve the commitment of significant Company resources and may demand the time and attention of 35 Table of Contents our employees, officers and directors, particularly those who are personally named, to the detriment of our business operations. The loss of one or a few customers or a particular strategic asset could have an adverse effect on us. One or a few government and commercial customers have in the past and may in the future account for a significant portion of our revenues in any one year or over a period of several consecutive years. For example, the NDA accounts for virtually all of our revenue in the International segment (which is our largest segment based on 2009 revenues). For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, 60.1% and 64.8% of our revenues were from contracts funded by the NDA. In addition, from time to time we typically have contracts with various offices within the DOE, including with the Office of Environmental Management, the Office of Civilian Radioactive Waste Management, the National Nuclear Security Administration and the Office of Nuclear Energy. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, 15.8% and 11.2% of our revenues were from contracts funded by the DOE. Our business strategy and hence profitability and operations rely on our ownership of disposal facilities, including in particular our Clive facility. A significant amount of our revenues are derived from large one-time projects. All of the foregoing subjects us to the risk that the loss of a significant customer, the loss of a particular strategic asset or the lack of new job awards for any reason, could have a materially adversely effect on our business and we may be particularly sensitive to significant short-term fluctuations in our revenues and profitability as a result. Because customers generally contract with us for specific projects, we may lose these significant customers from year to year as their projects with us are completed. Our inability to replace this business with other projects could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may incur substantial costs and liabilities due to our operation of nuclear power generating facilities. Under our Magnox North and Magnox South agreements we manage 22 nuclear power generating facilities, 4 of which are currently operating, for the NDA. The management and operation of such facilities subjects us to various risks including, among other things, the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the operation of nuclear reactors and related facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials and limitations on the amounts of types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with operating nuclear reactors and related facilities. We are required to meet licensing and safety-related requirements imposed by the NDA and other regulatory agencies in the U.K. In the event of non-compliance, the NDA or other regulatory agencies may increase regulatory oversight, impose fines, and/or shut down a facility, depending upon the assessment of the severity of the situation. Revised security and safety requirements promulgated by regulatory agencies could necessitate substantial capital and other expenditures, as well as assessments against us to cover third-party losses. If a serious nuclear incident were to occur at one of the nuclear facilities operated by us, such as the release of radioactive materials through a criticality event, or otherwise or the failure to safeguard nuclear materials resulting in, among other things, a terrorist incident or theft of such materials, there could be serious environmental, health and public safety consequences. In addition, such an incident could result in liabilities in excess of our insurance coverage or our ability to pay. Furthermore, a nuclear incident could lead to the termination of our position as the operator of that facility and/or other nuclear facilities and potentially impact other segments of our business. Any nuclear incident due to inadequate safety measures, failure to safeguard nuclear materials, terrorism or otherwise could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 36 Table of Contents The elimination or any modification of the Price-Anderson Act's indemnification authority could harm our business. In the United States, the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (the "AEA"), comprehensively regulates the manufacture, use and storage of radioactive materials. Section 170 of the AEA, which is known as the Price-Anderson Act, supports the nuclear services industry by offering broad indemnification to commercial nuclear power plant operators and DOE contractors for liabilities arising out of nuclear incidents at power plants licensed by the NRC and at DOE nuclear facilities. That indemnification protects not only the NRC licensee or DOE prime contractor, but also companies like us that work under contract or subcontract for a licensed power plant or under a DOE prime contract or transporting radioactive material to or from a site. The indemnification authority of the NRC and DOE under the Price-Anderson Act was extended through 2025 by the Energy Policy Act of 2005. The Price-Anderson Act's indemnification provisions generally do not apply to our processing and disposal facilities, and do not apply to all liabilities that we might incur while performing services as a contractor for the DOE and the nuclear energy industry. If an incident or evacuation is not covered under Price-Anderson Act indemnification, we could incur substantial losses, regardless of fault, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In connection with international transportation of toxic, hazardous and radioactive materials, it is possible for a claim to be asserted which may not fall within the indemnification provided by the Price-Anderson Act. If such indemnification authority is not applicable in the future, we may not be able to obtain commercially adequate insurance on a cost effective basis, or at all, and our business could be adversely affected if the owners and operators of new facilities elect not to retain our services. Our existing and future customers may reduce or halt their spending on nuclear services from outside vendors, including us. A variety of factors may cause our existing or future customers to reduce or halt their spending on nuclear services from outside vendors, including us. These factors include, but are not limited to: •accidents, terrorism, natural disasters or other incidents occurring at nuclear facilities or involving shipments of nuclear materials; •disruptions in the nuclear fuel cycle, such as insufficient uranium supply or conversion; •the financial condition and strategy of the owners and operators of nuclear reactors; •civic opposition to or changes in government policies regarding nuclear operations; or •a reduction in demand for nuclear generating capacity. These events also could adversely affect us to the extent that they result in the reduction or elimination of contractual requirements, the suspension or reduction of nuclear reactor operations, the reduction of supplies of nuclear raw materials, lower demand for nuclear services, burdensome regulation, disruptions of shipments or production, increased operational costs or difficulties or increased liability for actual or threatened property damage or personal injury. Economic downturns and reductions in government funding could harm our businesses. Demand for our services has been, and we expect that demand will continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations due to a variety of factors beyond our control, including economic and industry conditions. The stress experienced by global capital markets that began in the second half of 2007 substantially increased during 2008 and has continued throughout 2009. Recently, concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and a depressed real estate market have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the global economy and expectations of slower global economic growth going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, low business and consumer confidence and high unemployment, have precipitated an economic recession. 37 Table of Contents During economic downturns, the ability of private and government entities to make expenditures on nuclear services may decline significantly. Economic or political conditions may be unfavorable to our industry and there may be significant fluctuations adversely affecting our industry as a whole. In addition, our operations depend, in part, upon government funding, particularly funding levels at the NDA or DOE. Significant changes in the level of government funding (for example, the annual budget of the NDA or DOE) or specifically mandated levels for individual programs that are important to our business could have an unfavorable impact on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. For example, although the Magnox contract funding for the 2009/10 contract year increased over the 2008/09 contract year, the NDA has stated that the Magnox North and Magnox South sites, for which we are currently a prime contractor, may receive reduced funding allocations in the future so that the NDA may address other sites that contain more hazardous materials that pose a greater degree of risk. In addition, if Congress does not pass annual appropriations bills in a timely fashion, it may delay spending on new government contracts. Any reduction in the level of government funding, particularly at the DOE, may result in, among other things, a reduction in the cleanup and waste handling projects put out for bid by the government or the curtailment of existing government waste disposal programs, either of which may result in a reduction in the number of contract award opportunities available to us, a reduction of waste shipment and disposal activities from DOE sites and an increase in our costs of obtaining a contract award or providing services under the contract. In addition, current market conditions have exerted downward pressure on the price of our common stock, which could limit our ability to raise capital, if necessary, through borrowings or the issuance of additional securities. A protracted economic downturn could exacerbate these adverse conditions. Although numerous governments have taken steps to mitigate the disruption to financial markets, there can be no assurances that government responses will restore consumer confidence for the foreseeable future. The current state of the financial markets could also exert pressure on our customers and could limit their ability to secure working capital. This may impact their liquidity and their ability to make timely payments of their invoices to us. The inability of our customers to make timely payments of our invoices may negatively impact our cash flows. As a government contractor and recipient of American Recovery and Reinvestment Act funds, we are subject to extensive government regulation, and our failure to comply with applicable regulations could subject us to penalties that may restrict our ability to conduct our business. Our government contracts, which are primarily with the NDA and the DOE, are a significant part of our business. Allowable costs under U.S. government contracts are subject to audit by the U.S. government. Similarly, some U.K. contracts are subject to audit by U.K. regulatory authorities, including the NDA. If these audits result in determinations that costs claimed as reimbursable are not allowed costs or were not allocated in accordance with applicable regulations, we could be required to reimburse government authorities for amounts previously received. Government contracts are often subject to specific procurement regulations, contract provisions and a variety of other requirements relating to the formation, administration, performance and accounting of these contracts. Many of these contracts include express or implied certifications of compliance with applicable regulations and contractual provisions. We may be subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government under the Federal Civil False Claims Act, which could include claims for up to treble damages. Additionally, we may be subject to the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of all factual costs and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations. Some of our projects receive funding under the federal American Recovery and Reinvestment Act or similar federal and state programs designed to provide financial assistance to create jobs, improve energy efficiency, encourage the development of renewable energy, and meet critical infrastructure needs. The receipt of these funds subjects us to additional 38 Table of Contents regulatory oversight and reporting requirements, which impose additional administrative burdens and costs on our business. Failure to comply with applicable regulations, requirements or statutes could disqualify us from receiving recovery funding, result in the termination or suspension of our existing government contracts, impose fines or other penalties on us, or result in our suspension or disbarment from government contracting. If one or more of our government contracts are terminated for any reason, or if we are suspended or debarred from government work, we could suffer a significant reduction in expected revenues and profits. Furthermore, as a result of our government contracting or the receipt of recovery funding, claims for civil or criminal fraud may be brought by the government for violations of these regulations, requirements or statutes. Our commercial customers may decide to store radioactive materials on-site rather than contract with us to transport, process and dispose of the radioactive materials at one of our off-site facilities. Our LP&D segment's results of operations may be affected by the decisions of our commercial customers to store radioactive materials on-site. There has been little regulatory, political or economic pressure for commercial utilities and power companies to dispose of radioactive materials at off-site facilities. Some of these commercial entities have the ability to store radioactive materials generated by their operations on-site, instead of contracting with an outside service provider, such as us, to transport, process and dispose of the radioactive materials at an off-site location, such as our Clive facility. The decision to store radioactive materials on-site rather than contracting to dispose of them at an off-site facility may be influenced by the accounting treatment for radioactive materials. Currently, the liability for the disposal of radioactive materials stored on-site may be capitalized on the owner's balance sheet and amortized over the expected on-site storage period. In contrast, radioactive materials shipped off-site for disposal are expensed during the period in which the materials are shipped off-site. The NRC has rejected our proposal to undertake an amendment of current NRC rules to permit operators of nuclear reactors to access decommissioning funds for transportation and disposal of retired large components of currently operating nuclear power plants. We will continue to work with the NRC to request, on a case-by-case basis, that operators of these nuclear reactors be permitted to access decommissioning funds for transportation and disposal of retired large components. The NRC's refusal to grant such requests could have an adverse impact on the prospects for our Commercial Services and LP&D segments. We may not be successful in entering into license stewardship arrangements with owners and operators of shut-down nuclear reactors. We are marketing our license stewardship solution to the owners and operators of shut-down nuclear reactors in SAFSTOR or monitored storage. Although we believe that our license stewardship initiative is an attractive alternative to deferring decommissioning and related risks to the reactor owner, including future cost increases and the future availability of disposal capacity, the following factors may adversely affect our license stewardship initiative: •owners and operators of shut-down nuclear reactors have the option of maintaining their reactors in SAFSTOR or monitored storage, allowing their decommissioning trust funds to grow and eventually pursue a D&D program in the future; •uncertainty regarding the appropriate tax and regulatory treatment of aspects of our license stewardship initiative may prevent owners and operators of nuclear power plants from entering into these kinds of arrangements with us; •if a plant's decommissioning trust fund has decreased or failed to grow, the fund may not be large enough to make license stewardship economically feasible; •we may fail to obtain the necessary approvals and licenses from the NRC and the applicable state public utility commission on terms we find acceptable, or at all; 39 Table of Contents •these contracts may require us to post letters of credit or surety bonds that we may be unable to obtain on reasonable terms, or at all; •as the owner of the reactor assets and the holder of the NRC license, we may be subject to unforeseen environmental liabilities, including fines for non-compliance with environmental requirements and costs associated with the clean-up of unanticipated contamination; and •if we underestimate the costs or timing of D&D activities at a particular site, the project may not be profitable for us. As discussed elsewhere in this report, we have entered into an agreement with Exelon to dismantle Exelon's nuclear facility located in Zion, Illinois, which ceased operation in 1998. The NRC has issued an order approving the license transfer of the facility operating licenses and conforming license amendments from Exelon to ZionSolutions subject to the performance of certain conditions, including the issuing of a letter of credit required under the agreement with Exelon in the amount of $200 million. We have formally asked the NRC to extend the May 4, 2010 expiration of this order by six months. If the NRC does not grant an extension and the transaction does not close by May 4, 2010 we may need to obtain a new order from the NRC or seek an amendment to the current order. However, because of the recent market downturn, the nuclear decommissioning trust fund balance for the Zion Station, a significant portion of which was invested in the stock market, declined in value. As a result, we intend to defer the completion of this transaction until we reaffirm that there is sufficient value in the decommissioning trust funds to ensure adequate funds for the accelerated decommissioning of the plant. On August 17, 2009, we amended our agreement with Exelon to extend the required closing date to December 11, 2011. Under the terms of the amendment Exelon has the right to terminate the agreement if it is not closed by December 11, 2010 upon 60 days notice to us. On January 14, 2010 we amended our credit facility to provide us with adequate credit support capacity to facilitate the transaction, including permitting us to obtain the required $ 200.0 million letter of credit. However, we have not yet obtained the required letter of credit and changes in credit markets or our financial strength could prevent us from obtaining the letter of credit on terms favorable to us, or at all. As of December 31, 2009, we have incurred costs of $14.8 million that have been deferred until the closing of the transaction. We will continue to defer these costs until we close the transaction, at which time we will recognize the costs and related revenues. If we determine that it is not probable that we will close this transaction, we will expense these costs in the period of such determination. Our inability to successfully complete the transaction with Exelon may adversely affect our ability to enter into other license stewardship arrangements, which may have an adverse effect on our future business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our license stewardship arrangements will expose us to significant financial risks. Under our license stewardship initiative we will assume the decontamination and decommissioning obligations of owners of shut-down nuclear reactors or other nuclear facilities. We anticipate the costs of this process will be paid from the plant's decommissioning trust fund. The decommissioning trust fund is intended to be sufficient to fund the process of decommissioning. However, estimates of future costs are subject to significant risks, if one or more of the assumptions used to estimate those costs, is inaccurate. In addition, if we fail to appropriately manage the investment of the trust funds, or such funds are adversely affected by market conditions or investment returns, we may not have sufficient funds to complete the obligations we have assumed, exposing us to significant financial risk. We are subject to liability under environmental laws and regulations. We are subject to a variety of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, discharges to air and water, the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous or radioactive materials and wastes, the remediation of contamination associated with releases of 40 Table of Contents hazardous substances and human health and safety. These laws and regulations and the risk of attendant litigation can cause significant delays to a project and add significantly to its cost. Our projects often involve highly regulated materials, including hazardous and radioactive materials and wastes. Environmental laws and regulations generally impose limitations and standards for regulated materials and require us to obtain permits and licenses and comply with various other requirements. Fees associated with such environmental permits and licenses can be costly. In addition, the improper characterization, handling, testing, transportation or disposal of regulated materials or any other failure to comply with these environmental, health and safety laws, regulations, permits or licenses have resulted in fines or penalties from time to time and could subject us and our management to civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations or the issuance of injunctions that could restrict or prevent our operations. These laws and regulations may also become more stringent, or be more stringently enforced, in the future. Various national, state and local environmental laws and regulations, as well as common law, may impose liability for property damage and costs of investigation and clean-up of hazardous or toxic substances on property currently or previously owned by us or arising out of our waste management, environmental remediation or nuclear D&D activities. These laws may impose responsibility and liability without regard to knowledge of or causation of the presence of contaminants. The liability under these laws can be joint and several, meaning liability for the entire cost of clean-up can be imposed upon any responsible party. We have potential liabilities associated with our past radioactive materials management activities and with our current and prior ownership of various properties. The discovery of additional contaminants or the imposition of unforeseen clean-up obligations at these or other sites could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. When we perform our services, our personnel and equipment may be exposed to radioactive and hazardous materials and conditions. We may be subject to liability claims by employees, customers and third parties as a result of such exposures. In addition, we may be subject to fines, penalties or other liabilities arising under environmental or safety laws. Although to date we have been able to obtain liability insurance for the operation of our business other than circumstances where insurance is not available or we have determined it is not cost effective, there can be no assurance that our existing liability insurance is adequate or that it will be able to be maintained or that all possible claims that may be asserted against us will be covered by insurance. A partially or completely uninsured claim at Clive or any other facility, if successful and of sufficient magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our operations involve the handling, transportation and disposal of radioactive and hazardous materials and could result in liability without regard to our fault or negligence. Our operations involve the handling, transportation and disposal of radioactive and hazardous materials. Failure to properly handle these materials could pose a health risk to humans or animals and could cause personal injury and property damage (including environmental contamination). If an accident were to occur, its severity could be significantly affected by the volume of the materials and the speed of corrective action taken by emergency response personnel, as well as other factors beyond our control, such as weather and wind conditions. Actions taken in response to an accident could result in significant costs. In our contracts, we seek to protect ourselves from liability associated with accidents, but there is no assurance that such contractual limitations on liability will be effective in all cases or that our, or our customers', insurance will cover all the liabilities we have assumed under those contracts. The costs of defending against a claim arising out of a nuclear incident or precautionary evacuation, and any damages awarded as a result of such a claim, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 41 Table of Contents We maintain insurance coverage as part of our overall risk management strategy and due to requirements to maintain specific coverage in our financing agreements and in many of our contracts. These policies do not protect us against all liabilities associated with accidents or for unrelated claims. In addition, comparable insurance may not continue to be available to us in the future at acceptable prices, or at all. We are engaged in highly competitive businesses and typically must bid against other competitors to obtain major contracts. We are engaged in highly competitive businesses in which most of our government contracts and some of our commercial contracts are awarded through competitive bidding processes. We compete with national and regional firms with nuclear services practices, as well as small or local contractors. Some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do, which can give them a competitive advantage. In addition, even if we are qualified to work on a new government contract, we might not be awarded the contract because of existing government policies designed to protect small businesses and underrepresented minority contractors. Competition also places downward pressure on our contract prices and profit margins. Intense competition is expected to continue for nuclear service contracts, challenging our ability to maintain strong growth rates and acceptable profit margins and likely requiring the expenditure of additional marketing costs and related expenses to retain market share. If we are unable to meet these competitive challenges, we could lose market share and experience an overall reduction in our profits. In the event that a competitor is able to obtain the necessary permits, licenses and approvals to operate a new commercial LLRW disposal site, our business could be adversely affected, particularly as it relates to the revenue from the operation of our Clive facility. For example, Waste Control Specialists LLC, or WCS, filed a license application with the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality, or TECQ, in August 2004 for a LLRW disposal facility and announced receipt of a Radioactive Material License on September 10, 2009. Construction may not begin until several reconstruction license conditions are completed and approved by the executive director of the TECQ. Once approved construction is complete, additional conditions of the license must be met prior to commencement of disposal. These conditions will require WCS to complete several major environmental studies, examples of which include groundwater, air emissions, and seismic stability studies. WCS must also demonstrate that the leachate from the landfill will not reach the Ogallala-Antlers-Gatuna Aquifer. The conditional license states that prior to accepting federal facility waste, WCS must receive an agreement signed by the U.S. Secretary of Energy that it will assume all rights, title and interest in land and buildings for the disposal of federal facility waste. Should the conditional license become active, WCS will be allowed to receive waste from the Texas Compact, which includes the states of Texas and Vermont, and from federal facilities (i.e., DOE). WCS will not be able to receive waste via railcar or receive depleted uranium, and will be required to dispose of commercial waste in specially designed containers in the compact portion of the facility. We cannot predict whether WCS will successfully resolve the contingencies related to the draft LLRW license, or whether the State of Texas will issue a final license to WCS. In addition, WCS recently received a separate license to permanently dispose of 11e(2) materials at its facility. Our business and operating results could be adversely affected by losses under fixed-price contracts. Fixed-price contracts require us to perform all work under the contract for a specified lump-sum. Fixed-price contracts expose us to a number of risks not inherent in cost-reimbursable contracts, including underestimation of costs, ambiguities in specifications, unforeseen costs or difficulties, problems with new technologies, delays beyond our control, failures of subcontractors to perform and regulatory, economic or other changes that may occur during the contract period. If we have underestimated the costs of our fixed-price contracts, we may experience losses on such contracts. 42 Table of Contents If we guarantee the timely completion or performance standards of a project, we could incur additional costs to cover our guarantee obligations. In some instances, we guarantee a customer that we will complete a project by a scheduled date. For example, in connection with our license stewardship initiative, we guarantee that we will complete the decommissioning of a nuclear power plant that is currently shut down within both a particular time frame and budget. We also sometimes guarantee that a project, when completed, will achieve certain performance standards. If we fail to complete the project as scheduled or if the project fails to meet guaranteed performance standards, we may be held responsible for the impact to the customer resulting from any delay or for the cost of further work to achieve the performance standards, generally in the form of contractually agreed-upon penalty provisions. As a result, the project costs could exceed our original estimate, leading to reduced profits or a loss for that project. Our use of proportional performance accounting could result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profits. A significant portion of our revenues are recognized using the proportional performance method of accounting. Generally, the proportional performance accounting practices we use result in recognizing contract revenues and earnings based on output measures, where estimable, or on other measures such as the proportion of costs incurred to total estimated contract costs. For some of our long-term contracts, completion is measured on estimated physical completion or units of production. The cumulative effect of revisions to contract revenues and estimated completion costs, including incentive awards, penalties, change orders, claims and anticipated losses, is recorded in the accounting period in which the amounts are known or can be reasonably estimated. Due to uncertainties inherent in the estimation process, it is possible that actual completion costs may vary from estimates. A significant downward revision to our estimates could result in a material charge to our results of operations in the period of such a revision. Acquisitions that we pursue may present unforeseen integration obstacles and costs, increase our debt and negatively impact our performance. Our growth strategy includes selective acquisitions of other nuclear services businesses, both domestic and international, that we expect will enhance our existing portfolio of services and strengthen our relationships with our government and commercial customers. In 2007, we completed the acquisitions of Reactor Sites Management Company Limited, Parallax, Inc., NUKEM Corporation and Monserco Limited. From time to time, we may consider additional acquisitions, which, if consummated, could be material. We cannot give any assurance as to whether any such transaction could be completed or as to the price, terms or timetable on which we may do so. If we are able to consummate any such acquisition, it could result in dilution of our earnings, an increase in indebtedness or other consequences that could be adverse. The expense incurred in consummating acquisitions, or our failure to integrate such businesses successfully into our existing businesses, could result in our incurring unanticipated expenses and losses. Furthermore, we may not be able to realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions. The process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. Some of the risks associated with our acquisition strategy include: •potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; •unexpected loss of key employees or customers of the acquired company; 43 Table of Contents •conforming the acquired company's standards, processes, procedures and controls with our operations; •hiring additional management and other critical personnel; and •increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition targets or negotiate attractive terms in the future. In addition, our ability to complete acquisitions is limited by covenants in our credit facilities and our financial resources, including available cash and borrowing capacity. Given the serious decline in our stock price and tight debt markets, we may be unable to make acquisitions. If we are unable to make successful acquisitions, our ability to grow our business could be adversely affected. We made no significant acquisitions during 2009. Our success depends on attracting and retaining qualified personnel in a competitive environment. Our operations require the services of highly qualified executive, managerial, and business development personnel, skilled technology specialists and experts in a wide range of scientific, engineering and health and safety fields. Partly because no new nuclear reactors have commenced construction since the mid-1970s, there have been a limited number of qualified students graduating from universities with specialized nuclear engineering or nuclear science-based degrees. As a result, the nuclear services industry is experiencing a shortage of qualified personnel. Also, two of our corporate officers have recently left the Company. They each had significant experience, expertise and personal relationships in our industry and an in-depth knowledge of our Company and its operations. We face increasing competition and expense to attract and retain such personnel. Loss of key personnel or failure to attract personnel to expand our operations could have an adverse effect on our ability to operate our business and execute our business strategy. Our failure to maintain our safety record could have an adverse effect on our business. Our safety record is critical to our reputation. In addition, many of our government and commercial customers require that we maintain certain specified safety record guidelines to be eligible to bid for contracts with these customers. Furthermore, contract terms may provide for automatic termination in the event that our safety record fails to adhere to agreed-upon guidelines during performance of the contract. As a result, our failure to maintain our safety record could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. An impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are required to test acquired goodwill for impairment on an annual basis based upon a fair value approach, rather than amortizing it over time. Goodwill represents the excess of the amount we paid to acquire our subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of the acquisition. We have chosen to perform our annual impairment reviews of goodwill as of the end of the first quarter of each fiscal year. We also are required to test goodwill for impairment between annual tests if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce our enterprise fair value below its book value. In addition, we are required to test our finite-lived intangible assets for impairment if events occur or circumstances change that would indicate the remaining net book value of the finite-lived intangible assets might not be recoverable. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, including a significant sustained decline in an entity's market value, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sale or disposition of a significant portion of our business, potential government actions towards our facilities and other factors. If the fair market value of our reporting units is less than their book value, we could be required to record an impairment charge. The valuation of reporting units requires judgment in 44 Table of Contents estimating future cash flows, discount rates and other factors. In making these judgments, we evaluate the financial health of our business, including such factors as industry performance, changes in technology and operating cash flows. The amount of any impairment could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results for the period in which the charge is taken. In June 2006, we acquired Duratek for an aggregate purchase price of $440.8 million. Goodwill recognized for this acquisition was $310.5 million. We paid a premium in excess of the fair value of $216.9 million. We were willing to pay this premium as a result of our identification of significant synergies that we expect to realize through the acquisition. However, if we determine that we are not able to realize these expected synergies and determine that the fair value of the assets acquired is less than the book value of those assets, then we would have to recognize an impairment to goodwill as a current-period expense. Because of the significant amount of goodwill recognized in the Duratek acquisition, an impairment of that goodwill could result in a material expense and could result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. Changes in our forecasts or decreases in the value of our common stock could cause book values of certain operating segments to exceed their fair values, which may result in goodwill impairment charges in future periods. We had $518.8 million of goodwill and $310.2 million of finite-lived intangible assets, which collectively represented 54.9% of our total assets of $1.5 billion as of December 31, 2009. We have substantial debt, which could harm our financial condition, business and growth prospects. As of December 31, 2009 the outstanding balance under our credit facilities was $524.1 million. Our substantial debt could have important consequences to us, including the following: •we must use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and other fees on our debt, which reduces the funds available to us for other purposes; •our ability to obtain additional debt financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be limited; •we may be unable to renew, replace or repay long-term debt as it becomes due, particularly in light of the tightening of lending standards as a result of the ongoing financial crisis; •our flexibility in reacting to changes in the industry may be limited and we could be more vulnerable to adverse changes in our business or economic conditions in general; and •we may be at a competitive disadvantage to competitors that have less debt. We currently have balances of $5.0 million in outstanding borrowings and $10.8 million letters of credit both issued against our $75.0 million revolving credit facility, which matures on June 7, 2011; a $519.1 million balance on our first-lien term loan facilities, which mature on June 7, 2013 with minimum payments of $19.1 million in 2010 and $5.6 million in 2011 and 2012; and a $100.0 million synthetic letter of credit facility of which $100.0 million is outstanding, which expires on June 7, 2013. Borrowings under our credit facilities bear interest at variable rates. As of December 31, 2009, the interest rate of our term-loan facilities was 4.01%. At this rate and assuming an outstanding balance of $519.1 million as of December 31, 2009, our annual debt service obligations would be $23.6 million, consisting of $20.8 million of interest and $2.8 million of scheduled principal payments. Based on the amount of debt outstanding and the interest rate at December 31, 2009, a hypothetical 1% increase in interest rates would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $5.2 million. If interest rates were to increase significantly, our ability to borrow additional funds may be reduced, our interest expense would significantly increase and the risks related to our substantial debt would intensify. 45 Table of Contents The agreements governing our debt restrict our ability to engage in certain business transactions. The agreements governing the credit facilities restrict our ability to, among other things, engage in the following actions, subject to limited exceptions: •incur or guarantee additional debt; •declare or pay dividends to holders of our common stock; •make investments and acquisitions; •incur or permit to exist liens; •enter into transactions with affiliates; •make material changes in the nature or conduct of our business; •merge or consolidate with, or sell substantially all of our assets to, other companies; •make capital expenditures; and •transfer or sell assets. The agreements governing our credit facilities contain financial covenants which we may not meet with our future financial results. Our credit facilities contain financial covenants requiring us to maintain specified maximum leverage and minimum cash interest coverage ratios. The results of our future operations may not allow us to meet these covenants, or may require that we take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our business objectives. Our failure to comply with obligations under our credit facilities, including satisfaction of the financial ratios, would result in an event of default under the facilities. A default, if not cured or waived, would prohibit us from obtaining further loans under our credit facilities and permit the lenders thereunder to accelerate payment of their loans and withdraw the letters of credit which support our bonding obligations. If we are not current in our bonding obligations, we may be in breach of our contracts with our customers, which generally require bonding. In addition, we would be unable to bid or be awarded new contracts that required bonding. If our debt is accelerated, we currently would not have funds available to pay the accelerated debt and may not have the ability to refinance the accelerated debt on terms favorable to us or at all particularly in light of the tightening of lending standards as a result of the ongoing financial crisis. If we could not repay or refinance the accelerated debt, we would be insolvent and could seek to file for bankruptcy protection. Any such default, acceleration or insolvency would likely have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. We rely on intellectual property law and confidentiality agreements to protect our intellectual property. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our future performance and growth. Protection of our proprietary processes, methods and other technology is important to our business. Failure to protect our existing intellectual property rights may result in the loss of valuable technologies. We rely on patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright law as well as judicial enforcement to protect such technologies. A majority of our patents relate to the development of new products and processes for the processing and disposal of radioactive materials. Our intellectual property could be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. We also rely upon unpatented proprietary nuclear expertise, continuing technological innovation and other trade secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, but 46 Table of Contents these agreements are limited in duration and could be breached, and therefore they may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or proprietary nuclear expertise. Adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and nuclear expertise. Others may obtain knowledge of our trade secrets through independent development or other access by legal means. The failure of our intellectual property or confidentiality agreements to protect our processes, technology, trade secrets and proprietary nuclear expertise and methods could have an adverse effect on our business by jeopardizing our rights to use critical intellectual property. In addition, effective intellectual property protection may be limited or unavailable in some foreign countries where we may pursue operations. If our partners fail to perform their contractual obligations on a project or if we fail to coordinate effectively with our partners, we could be exposed to legal liability, loss of reputation and reduced profit on the project. We often perform projects jointly with contractual partners. For example, we enter into contracting consortia and other contractual arrangements to bid and perform jointly on large projects. Success on these joint projects depends in part on whether our partners fulfill their contractual obligations satisfactorily. If any of our partners fails to perform its contractual obligations satisfactorily, we may be required to make additional investments and provide additional services in order to compensate for that partner's failure. If we are unable to adequately address our partner's performance issues, then our customer may exercise its right to terminate a joint project, exposing us to legal liability, loss of reputation and reduced profit. Our collaborative arrangements also involve risks that participating parties may disagree on business decisions and strategies. These disagreements could result in delays, additional costs and risks of litigation. Our inability to successfully maintain existing collaborative relationships or enter into new collaborative arrangements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We conduct a portion of our operations through joint venture entities, over which we may have limited control. We currently have equity interests in joint ventures and may enter into additional joint ventures in the future. As with most joint venture arrangements, differences in views among the joint venture participants may result in delayed decisions or disputes. We also cannot control the actions of our joint venture partners, and we typically have joint and several liabilities with our joint venture partners under the applicable contracts for joint venture projects. These factors could potentially harm the business and operations of a joint venture and, in turn, our business and operations. Operating through joint ventures in which we are minority holders results in us having limited control over many decisions made with respect to projects and internal controls relating to projects. These joint ventures may not be subject to the same requirements regarding internal controls and internal control over financial reporting that we follow. As a result, internal control problems may arise with respect to the joint ventures that could adversely affect our ability to respond to requests or contractual obligations to customers or to meet the internal control requirements to which we are otherwise subject. Our dependence on subcontractors and equipment manufacturers could adversely affect us. We rely on subcontractors and equipment manufacturers to complete our projects. For example, when providing D&D services to a government customer, we may rely on one or more subcontractors to conduct demolition work. To the extent that we cannot engage subcontractors or acquire equipment or materials to provide such services, our ability to complete the project in a timely fashion or at a given profit margin may be impaired. Our LP&D segment also enters into contracts with various railroads for the transportation of radioactive materials from project sites to our processing and 47 Table of Contents disposal facilities. In the event that the railroads fail to deliver radioactive materials to our facilities on time, we could be forced to delay recognizing LP&D revenues until the time of delivery. In addition, if a subcontractor or a manufacturer is unable to deliver its services, equipment or materials according to the negotiated terms for any reason, including the deterioration of its financial condition, we may be required to purchase those services, equipment or materials from another source at a higher price. This may reduce our profitability or result in a loss on the project for which the services, equipment or materials were needed. Letters of credit and adequate bonding are necessary for us to win certain types of new work. We are required to post, from time to time, standby letters of credit and surety bonds to support contractual obligations to customers as well as other obligations. These letters of credit and bonds indemnify the customer if we fail to perform our obligations under the contract. For example, in connection with our agreement with Exelon Corporation regarding the decommissioning of its Zion nuclear facility located in Zion, Illinois, we are required to deliver a $200 million letter of credit to Exelon relating to our present and future obligations. If a letter of credit or bond is required for a particular project and we are unable to obtain it due to insufficient liquidity or other reasons, we will not be able to pursue that project. We have a bonding facility but, as is typically the case, the issuance of bonds under that facility is at the surety's sole discretion. In addition, we have limited capacity under our credit facilities for letters of credit. Moreover, due to events that affect the insurance and bonding and credit markets generally, bonding and letters of credit may be more difficult to obtain in the future or may only be available at significant additional cost. There can be no assurance that letters of credit or bonds will continue to be available to us on reasonable terms. Our inability to obtain adequate letters of credit and bonding and, as a result, to bid on new work could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2009 we had $100.0 million in letters of credit which are issued under our synthetic letter of credit facility, $10.8 million in letters of credit which are issued under the revolving portion of our credit facility and $0.7 million in surety bonds outstanding. If we are unable to clearly define a long-term business strategy and ensure that it is executed in each respective business unit our operations will be inefficient and potentially conflicting, which may materially affect our financial results and operations. As part of our growth strategy, we have completed several acquisitions over the last several years with companies complementary to our business. Despite the strategic benefits of such acquisitions we may continue to expend time and resources addressing integration challenges inherent in getting newly acquired business to adhere to general corporate policies, including without limitation policies or standards related to safety. Our ability to clearly define a long-term business strategy and ensure that it is executed in each of our business segments is fundamental to our ability to realize long-term, balanced growth in each of our business segments. In the event we cannot clearly define such strategy or fail to ensure that it is implemented in any particular business segment, the long-term objectives of our respective business segments may suffer resulting in the potential for inefficiencies in our operations and costs of doing business. In addition, management within each business segment may define their own strategies that do not align with the long-term objectives of the Company. Any of the foregoing may result in excessive costs and business development inefficiency, and may materially harm our financial position and operations. We must successfully upgrade and maintain our information technology systems. We rely on various information technology systems to manage our operations. We are currently implementing modifications and upgrades to our systems, including making changes to legacy systems, replacing legacy systems with successor systems with new functionality and acquiring new systems. 48 Table of Contents These types of activities subject us to inherent costs and risks associated with replacing and changing these systems, potential disruption of our internal control structure, substantial capital expenditures, additional administration and operating expenses, retention of sufficiently skilled personnel to implement and operate the new systems, demands on management time, and other risks and costs of delays or difficulties in transitioning to new systems or of integrating new systems into our current systems. Our system implementations may not result in productivity improvements at a level that outweighs the costs of implementation, or at all. In addition, the implementation of new technology systems may cause disruptions in our business operations and have an adverse effect on our business, cash flows and operations, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated. Our new enterprise resource planning system implementation came on line in January 2010. In addition to the risks addressed in the preceding paragraph, specific risks associated with this system include: 1) delays in generating certain customer invoices and the required supporting details which could negatively affect cash flows, 2) delays in processing supplier invoices and/or payments which could potentially disrupt operations and/or result in financial penalties, 3) system performance issues due to inadequate technology infrastructure, 4) excessive delays in closing monthly financial periods which could result in delays in filings of quarterly SEC reports, 5) the ability of our users to use the system as designed and configured to support key business processes and requirements, and 6) not being fully compliant with state, federal, Sarbanes-Oxley, and labor union requirements. Because we publish earnings guidance for our company, our common stock may be subject to increased volatility and we may be subject to lawsuits by investors. Because we publish earnings guidance, we are subject to a number of risks. Based on the timing of winning key contracts, regulatory decision making and other uncertainties relating to assumptions that management makes in calculating our expected financial results, actual results may vary from the guidance we provide investors. Our stock price may decline following an announcement of disappointing earnings or earnings guidance or if we revise our earnings guidance downward as the estimates and assumptions we make in calculating guidance become more certain. On October 14, 2008, we announced a reduction in our earnings guidance due, among other things, to the current economic downturn. Following that announcement, our stock price declined by 44% on October 14, 2008. Our earnings guidance reflects our assumptions regarding future performance, including, among other things, the likelihood of securing and performing work under new contracts. If we fail to secure and perform work under contracts in accordance with our assumptions, we may be unable to achieve our earnings guidance. Some companies that have made downward revisions to their earnings guidance or did not meet the guidance provided have been subject to lawsuits by investors. Such lawsuits may have merit and result in adverse settlements or judgments. Even if such lawsuits are dismissed or have no merit, they may be costly and may divert management attention and other resources away from our business, which could harm our business and the price of our common stock. If securities or industry analysts stop publishing research or reports about our business, if they change their recommendations regarding our stock adversely or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who cover our company downgrade our stock or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline. 49 Table of Contents As a public company, we are subject to additional financial and other reporting and corporate governance requirements that may be difficult for us to satisfy. In connection with our initial public offering in November 2007, we became obligated to file with the SEC annual and quarterly information and other reports that are specified in Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We are also required to ensure that we have the ability to prepare financial statements that are fully compliant with all SEC reporting requirements on a timely basis. We are also subject to other reporting and corporate governance requirements, including the requirements of the NYSE and certain provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the regulations promulgated thereunder, which impose significant compliance obligations upon us. As a public company, we are required to, among other things: •prepare and distribute periodic public reports and other shareholder communications in compliance with our obligations under the federal securities laws and NYSE rules; •clearly define the roles and duties of our board of directors and committees of the board; •institute comprehensive financial reporting and disclosure compliance functions; •involve and retain outside counsel and accountants in the activities listed above; •maintain an effective investor relations function; and •establish and monitor internal policies, including those relating to disclosure controls and procedures. These requirements require a significant commitment of resources. We may not be successful in implementing and monitoring specific requirements and the failure to do so could adversely affect our business or operating results. In addition, if we fail to satisfy the requirements with respect to our internal accounting and audit functions, our ability to report our operating results on a timely and accurate basis could be impaired. If we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify a material weakness in our internal controls and such material weakness is not properly remediated, it could result in material misstatements of our financial statements in future periods. We or our independent registered public accounting firm may, in the future, identify a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is defined by the standards issued by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board as a significant deficiency, or combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. If material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting are identified in the future, we may be unable to provide required financial information in a timely and reliable manner, or otherwise comply with the standards applicable to us as a public company, and our management may not be able to report that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. There could also be a negative reaction in the markets due to a loss of investor confidence in us and the reliability of our financial statements and, as a result, our business may be harmed and the price of our common stock may decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 50 Table of Contents 