ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the following factors which could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. The Creditor Protection Proceedings will have a direct impact on our business and exacerbate these risks and uncertainties. In particular, the risks described below could cause actual events to differ materially from those contemplated in our forward-looking statements. The risks described below are not the only risks we are facing. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have organized our risks into the following categories: • Risks Relating to Our Creditor Protection Proceedings, and • Risks Relating to Our Business Risks Relating to Our Creditor Protection Proceedings We, and many of our direct and indirect subsidiaries, are currently subject to Creditor Protection Proceedings and additional subsidiaries could become subject to similar proceedings. Our business, operations and financial position are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with such proceedings. Actions and decisions of our creditors and other third parties with interest in our Creditor Protection Proceedings may be inconsistent with our plans. For the duration of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, our business, operations and financial position will be subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with such proceedings. These risks, without limitation and in addition to the risks otherwise noted in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, are comprised of: Strategic risks, including risks associated with our ability to: • stabilize the business to maximize the chances of preserving all or a portion of the enterprise; • develop a comprehensive restructuring plan in an effective and timely manner; • resolve ongoing issues with creditors and other third parties whose interests may differ from ours; • obtain court approval with respect to motions in the Creditor Protection Proceedings prosecuted from time to time; • obtain creditor, court and any other requisite third-party approvals for a comprehensive restructuring plan; • successfully implement a comprehensive restructuring plan; and • obtain court approval for asset sales. Financial risks, including risks associated with our ability to: • generate cash from operations and maintain adequate cash-on-hand; • operate within the restrictions and limitations of the current DIP Credit Agreement, the amended accounts receivable securitization program and the proposed Abitibi DIP Agreement, or put in place a longer term solution; • continue to maintain currently approved intercompany lending and transfer pricing arrangements and ongoing deployment of cash resources throughout the Company in connection with ordinary course intercompany trade obligations and requirements; • continue to maintain our cash management arrangements, and obtain any further approvals from the Monitor, the courts or other third parties, as necessary to continue such arrangements; • raise capital to satisfy claims, including our ability to sell assets to satisfy claims against us; • obtain sufficient exit financing to support a comprehensive restructuring plan; and • realize full or fair value for any assets or business we may divest as part of a comprehensive restructuring plan. 15 Table of Contents Operational risks, including risks associated with our ability to: • attract and retain customers despite the uncertainty caused by the Creditor Protection Proceedings; • avoid reduction in, or delay or suspension of, customer orders as a result of the uncertainty caused by the Creditor Protection Proceedings; • maintain market share as our competitors move to capitalize on customer concerns; • operate our business effectively in consultation with the Creditors’ Committee and the Monitor; • actively and adequately communicate on and respond to events, media and rumors associated with the Creditor Protection Proceedings that could adversely affect our relationships with customers, suppliers, partners and employees; • retain and incentivize key employees, attract new key employees and avoid labor disputes; • retain, or if necessary, replace major suppliers on acceptable terms; • avoid disruptions in our supply chain as a result of uncertainties related to our Creditor Protection Proceedings; and • maintain current relationships with customers, vendors and trade creditors. Procedural risks, including risks associated with our ability to: • obtain court orders or approvals with respect to motions we file from time to time, including motions seeking extensions of the applicable stays of actions and proceedings against us, or obtain timely approval of transactions outside the ordinary course of business, or other events that may require a timely reaction by us or present opportunities for us; • resolve the claims made against us in such proceedings for amounts not exceeding our recorded liabilities subject to compromise; • prevent third parties from obtaining court orders or approvals that are contrary to our interests, such as the termination or shortening of the exclusivity period in the Chapter 11 Cases during which we can propose and seek confirmation of a comprehensive restructuring plan and the appointment of a Chapter 11 trustee or the conversion of our Chapter 11 Cases to Chapter 7 liquidation cases; and • reject, repudiate or terminate contracts. These risks and uncertainties could affect our business and operations in various ways. For example, negative events or publicity associated with our Creditor Protection Proceedings could adversely affect our sales and relationships with our customers, as well as with vendors and employees, which in turn could adversely affect our operations and financial condition, particularly if the Creditor Protection Proceedings are protracted. Also, transactions outside the ordinary course of business are subject to the prior approval of the U.S. Court and the Canadian Court, which may limit our ability to respond timely to certain events or take advantage of certain opportunities. We cannot provide any assurance as to what values, if any, will be ascribed in our Creditor Protection Proceedings to our various pre-petition liabilities, common stock and other securities. As a result of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, our currently outstanding common stock and exchangeable shares could have no value and may be canceled under any plan of reorganization we might propose and, therefore, we believe that the value of our various pre-petition liabilities and other securities is highly speculative. Accordingly, caution should be exercised with respect to existing and future investments in any of these liabilities or securities. Our Creditor Protection Proceedings raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Because of the risks and uncertainties associated with our Creditor Protection Proceedings, we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of the reorganization process, or predict or quantify the potential impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our Creditor Protection Proceedings and our debtor in possession financing arrangements discussed above provide us with a period of time to stabilize our operations and financial condition and develop a comprehensive restructuring plan. However, it is not possible to predict the outcome of these proceedings and as such, the realization of assets and discharge of liabilities are each subject to significant uncertainty. Accordingly, substantial doubt exists as to whether we will be able to continue as a going concern. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on market conditions and our ability to successfully develop and implement a comprehensive restructuring plan and improve profitability, obtain alternative financing to replace the debtor in possession financing arrangements and restructure our obligations in a manner that allows us to obtain confirmation of a plan of reorganization by the U.S. Court and the Canadian Court. However, it is not possible to predict whether the actions taken in this restructuring will result in improvements to our financial condition sufficient to allow us to continue as a going concern. Even assuming a successful emergence from the Creditor Protection Proceedings, there can be no assurance as to the long-term viability of all or any part of the enterprise. In addition, a long period of operating under the Creditor Protection Proceedings may exacerbate the potential harm to our business and further restrict our ability to pursue certain business strategies or require us to take actions that we otherwise would not. These challenges are in addition to business, operational and competitive challenges that we would normally face even absent the Creditor Protection Proceedings. 16 Table of Contents The terms of our DIP Credit Agreement, the proposed Abitibi DIP Agreement and any future debtor in possession financing arrangements may severely limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our business. Our ability to incur additional debt is significantly limited or restricted under the DIP Credit Agreement and the proposed Abitibi DIP agreement. These restrictions limit our ability to: • incur liens or make negative pledges on our assets; • merge, consolidate or sell our assets; • issue additional debt; • pay dividends or repurchase or redeem capital stock; • make investments and acquisitions; • enter into certain transactions with stockholders and affiliates; • make capital expenditures; • materially change our business; • amend our debt and other material agreements; or • make investments in unrestricted subsidiaries. Our failure to comply with these covenants, or similar covenants in future debtor in possession financing arrangements, could result in our being required to repay these borrowings before their due date. If we are unable to make these repayments or otherwise refinance these borrowings, our lenders could foreclose on our assets. We may be unable to refinance these borrowings or refinance them on favorable terms, which could significantly increase our costs of borrowing. Our common stock and the exchangeable shares of AbitibiBowater Canada Inc. are no longer traded on a national securities exchange. It will likely be more difficult for stockholders and investors to sell our common stock or the exchangeable shares of AbitibiBowater Canada Inc. or to obtain accurate quotations of the price of these securities. On April 16, 2009, we received notice from the NYSE that it had determined that the trading of our common stock on the NYSE should be suspended immediately and that our common stock will be delisted after the completion of the NYSE’s application to the SEC. In addition, our common stock and the exchangeable shares of AbitibiBowater Canada Inc. have been suspended from trading by the TSX and will be delisted effective May 15, 2009. Our common stock is now traded over-the-counter (“OTC”) and is quoted on the Pink Sheets under the ticker symbol “ABWTQ.” We can provide no assurance that we will be able to re-list our common stock or exchangeable shares on a national securities exchange or that the common stock will continue being quoted on the Pink Sheets. The trading of our common stock OTC negatively impacts the trading price of our common stock. In addition, securities that trade OTC are not eligible for margin loans and make our common stock subject to the provisions of Rule 15g-9 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, commonly referred to as the “penny stock rule.” In connection with the delistings of our common stock and exchangeable shares, there may also be other negative implications, including the potential loss of confidence in us by our suppliers, customers and employees and the loss of institutional investor interest in our common stock. OTC transactions involve risks in addition to those associated with transactions on a stock exchange. Many OTC stocks trade less frequently and in smaller volumes than stocks listed on an exchange. Accordingly, OTC-traded shares are less liquid and are likely to be more volatile than exchange-traded stocks. The price of our common stock is currently electronically displayed in the U.S. on the Pink Sheets, which is a quotation medium that publishes market maker quotes for OTC securities. It is not a stock exchange or listing service and is not owned, operated or regulated by any exchange. Investors are advised that we have not taken any steps to have our securities quoted on the Pink Sheets; there is no relationship, contractual or otherwise, between an issuer whose securities are quoted on the Pink Sheets, and Pink Sheets LLC exercises no regulatory oversight over us. Our status on the Pink Sheets is dependent on market makers’ willingness to continue to provide the service of accepting trades of our common stock. We must restructure and transform our business and the assumptions underlying these efforts may prove to be inaccurate. We may not be able to successfully develop, obtain all requisite approvals for, or implement a comprehensive restructuring plan. Failure to obtain the requisite approvals for, or failure to successfully develop and implement our comprehensive restructuring plan within the time granted by the courts would, in all likelihood, lead to the liquidation of all of our assets. Pursuant to the ongoing Creditor Protection Proceedings, we are working on developing a comprehensive restructuring plan. In order to successfully emerge from the Creditor Protection Proceedings, our senior management will be required to spend significant amounts of time developing a comprehensive restructuring plan, instead of focusing exclusively on business operations. 17 Table of Contents In connection with the transformation of our business, we have made, and will continue to make, judgments as to whether we should further reduce, relocate or otherwise change our workforce. Costs incurred in connection with workforce reduction efforts may be higher than estimated. Furthermore, our workforce efforts may impair our ability to achieve our current or future business objectives. Any further workforce efforts including reductions may not occur on the expected timetable and may result in the recording of additional charges. Further, we have made, and will continue to make, judgments as to whether we should limit investment in, exit, or dispose of certain businesses. The Creditor Protection Proceedings and the development of a comprehensive plan of reorganization may result in the sale or divestiture of assets or businesses, but we can provide no assurance that we will be able to complete any sale or divestiture on acceptable terms or at all. Any decision by management to further limit investment in, or exit or dispose of businesses may result in the recording of additional charges. We also must obtain the approvals of the respective courts, creditors, the Creditors’ Committee and the Monitor. We may not receive the requisite approvals and even if we do, a dissenting holder of a claim against us may challenge and ultimately delay the final approval and implementation of a comprehensive restructuring plan. If we are not successful in developing a comprehensive restructuring plan, or if we are successful in developing it but do not receive the requisite approvals, it is unclear whether we would be able to reorganize our businesses and what distributions, if any, holders of claims against us would receive. Should the stay or moratorium period and any subsequent extension thereof not be sufficient to develop and implement a comprehensive restructuring plan or should such plan not be approved by creditors and the courts and, in any such case, should we lose the protection of such stay or moratorium, substantially all of our debt obligations will become due and payable immediately, or subject to acceleration, creating an immediate liquidity crisis that in all likelihood would lead to the liquidation of all of our assets, in which case it is likely that holders of claims would receive substantially less favorable treatment than they would receive if we were able to emerge as a viable, reorganized entity. During the pendency of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, our financial results may be volatile and may not reflect historical trends. Also, as a result of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, our internal controls are currently subject to review and modification. During the pendency of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, we expect our financial results to continue to be volatile as asset impairments, asset dispositions, restructuring activities, contract terminations and rejections and claims assessments may significantly impact our consolidated financial statements. As a result, our historical financial performance is likely not indicative of our financial performance following the dates we initiated the Creditor Protection Proceedings. Further, we may sell or otherwise dispose of assets or businesses and liquidate or settle liabilities, with court approval, for amounts other than those reflected in our historical financial statements. Any such sale or disposition and any comprehensive restructuring plan could materially change the amounts and classifications reported in our historical consolidated financial statements, which do not give effect to any adjustments to the carrying value of assets or amounts of liabilities that might be necessary as a consequence of a comprehensive restructuring plan. As a result of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, we will adopt SOP 90-7 commencing on the dates of our Creditor Protection Proceedings, which will require certain changes and additional reporting in our financial statements. Also, as a result of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, our internal controls are currently subject to review and modification, including with respect to the Monitor, and we may implement additional controls to accommodate the adoption of SOP 90-7, as well as any of the additional reporting requirements relating to our Creditor Protection Proceedings. The implementation of the foregoing may adversely affect the ability to timely file our reports. Our liquidity position imposes significant risks to our operations. Because of the public disclosure of our liquidity issues, and despite the liquidity provided by our DIP Credit Agreement, the accounts receivable securitization program and the proposed Abitibi DIP Agreement, our ability to maintain normal credit terms with our suppliers may become impaired. We may be required to pay cash in advance to certain vendors and may experience restrictions on the availability of trade credit, which would further reduce our liquidity. If liquidity problems persist, our suppliers could refuse to provide key products and services in the future. In addition, due to public perception of our financial condition and results of operations, in particular with regard to our potential failure to meet our debt obligations, some customers could become reluctant to enter into long-term agreements with us. The DIP Credit Agreement provides for borrowings in an aggregate principal amount of up to $206 million. The DIP Credit Agreement also provides for an incremental facility consisting of additional borrowings, upon our election and the satisfaction of certain conditions, in an aggregate principal amount of up to $360 million, less the Initial Advance. The Abitibi and Donohue securitization program has a maximum commitment of approximately $210 million and has been extended only for 45 days from April 16, 2009, subject to certain termination provisions. The Abitibi DIP Agreement, which has not yet been executed and is subject to the approval of the Canadian Court, is expected to provide for borrowings in an aggregate principal amount of up to $87.5 million. There can be no assurance that the amounts of cash from operations together with amounts available under these agreements will be sufficient to fund operations. In the event that cash flows and amounts available under these agreements are not sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements, we may be required to seek additional financing. There can be no assurance that such additional financing would be available or, if available, offered on acceptable terms. Failure to secure any necessary additional financing would have a material adverse impact on our operations. For additional information on our liquidity, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” 18 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business Developments in alternative media could continue to adversely affect the demand for our products, especially in North America, and our responses to these developments may not be successful. Trends in advertising, electronic data transmission and storage and the Internet could have further adverse effects on traditional print media, including our products and those of our customers, but neither the timing nor the extent of those trends can be predicted with certainty. Our newspaper, magazine and catalog publishing customers may increasingly use, and compete with businesses that use, other forms of media and advertising and electronic data transmission and storage, including television and the Internet, instead of newsprint, coated paper, uncoated specialty papers or other products made by us. The demand for certain of our products weakened significantly over the last several years. For example, industry statistics indicate that North American newsprint demand has been in decline for several years and has experienced annual declines of 5.6% in 2005, 6.1% in 2006, 10.3% in 2007 and 11.2% in 2008. Third-party forecasters indicate that these declines in newsprint demand could continue or accelerate for 2009 due to conservation measures taken by publishers, reduced North American newspaper circulation, less space devoted to advertising and substitution to other uncoated mechanical grades. One of our responses to the declining demand for our products has been to curtail our production capacity. See the “Business Strategy and Outlook” section in Item 7 for further information regarding the actions we took in 2007, 2008 and 2009 to reduce our production capacity, such as permanent closures or indefinite idling of certain facilities, as well as market-related downtime at other facilities. It may become necessary to curtail even more production or permanently shut down even more machines or facilities. Such further curtailments and shutdowns would become increasingly likely as North American newsprint demand continues to decline or if market conditions otherwise worsen. Curtailments or shutdowns could result in goodwill or asset write-downs and additional costs at the affected facilities, and could negatively impact our cash flows and materially affect our results of operations and financial condition. Bankruptcy of a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. Trends discussed in the immediately preceding risk factor continue to impact the operations of our newsprint customers. If a customer is forced into bankruptcy as a result of these trends, any pre-petition receivables related to that customer may not be realized. In addition, such a customer may choose to reject its contracts with us, which could result in a larger pre-petition claim. Currency fluctuations may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and changes in foreign currency exchange rates can affect our competitive position, selling prices and manufacturing costs. We compete with North American, European and Asian producers in most of our product lines. Our products are sold and denominated in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars and selected foreign currencies. A substantial portion of our manufacturing costs are denominated in Canadian dollars. In addition to the impact of product supply and demand, changes in the relative strength or weakness of such currencies, and particularly the U.S. dollar, may also affect international trade flows of these products. A stronger U.S. dollar may attract imports into North America from foreign producers, increase supply and have a downward effect on prices, while a weaker U.S. dollar may encourage U.S. exports and increase manufacturing costs that are in Canadian dollars or other foreign currencies. Variations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies, particularly the Euro and the currencies of Canada, United Kingdom, Sweden and certain Asian countries, will significantly affect our competitive position compared to many of our competitors. We are particularly sensitive to changes in the value of the Canadian dollar versus the U.S. dollar. The impact of these changes depends primarily on our production and sales volume, the proportion of our production and sales that occur in Canada, the proportion of our financial assets and liabilities denominated in Canadian dollars, our hedging levels and the magnitude, direction and duration of changes in the exchange rate. We expect exchange rate fluctuations to continue to impact costs and revenues; however, we cannot predict the magnitude or direction of this effect for any quarter, and there can be no assurance of any future effects. During the last two years, the relative value of the Canadian dollar ranged from US$0.85 in January 2007 to US$1.09 in November 2007 and back to US$0.77 in October 2008. Based on exchange rates, hedging levels and operating conditions originally projected for 2009 prior to the impact of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, we project that a one-cent increase in the Canadian-U.S. dollar exchange rate would increase our operating loss for 2009 by approximately $27 million. If the Canadian dollar strengthens again against the U.S. dollar, it could influence the foreign exchange rate assumptions that are used in our evaluation of long-lived assets for impairment and, consequently, result in asset impairment charges. See the discussion under “Critical Accounting Estimates — Long-lived assets, other than goodwill” in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may not be successful in our strategy of increasing our share of coated and specialty papers and competing in growth markets with higher returns. One of the components of our long-term strategy is to improve our portfolio of businesses by focusing on coated and specialty papers and competing more aggressively in growth markets with higher returns. There are risks associated with the implementation of this strategy, which is complicated and which involves a substantial number of mills, machines and personnel. To the extent we are unsuccessful in achieving this strategy, our results of operations may be adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents We face intense competition in the forest products industry and the failure to compete effectively would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We compete with numerous forest products companies, some of which have greater financial resources than we do. There has been a continued trend toward consolidation in the forest products industry, leading to new global producers. These global producers are typically large, well-capitalized companies that may have greater flexibility in pricing and financial resources for marketing, investment and expansion than we do. The markets for our products are all highly competitive. Actions by competitors can affect our ability to sell our products and can affect the volatility of the prices at which our products are sold. While the principal basis for competition is price, we also compete on the basis of customer service, quality and product type. There has also been an increasing trend toward consolidation among our customers. With fewer customers in the market for our products, our negotiation position with these customers could be weakened. In addition, the Creditor Protection Proceedings and their associated risks and uncertainties may be used by our competitors in an attempt to divert our existing customers or may discourage future customers from purchasing our products under long-term agreements. In addition, our industry is capital intensive, which leads to high fixed costs. Some of our competitors may be lower-cost producers in some of the businesses in which we operate. Global newsprint capacity, particularly Chinese and European newsprint capacity, has been increasing, which is expected to result in lower prices, volumes or both for our exported products. We believe that new hardwood pulp capacity at South American pulp mills has unit costs that are significantly below those of our hardwood kraft pulp mills. Other actions by competitors, such as reducing costs or adding low-cost capacity, may adversely affect our competitive position in the products we manufacture and, consequently, our sales, operating income and cash flows. We may not be able to compete effectively and achieve adequate levels of sales and product margins. Failure to compete effectively would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The forest products industry is highly cyclical. Fluctuations in the prices of, and the demand for, our products could result in small or negative profit margins, lower sales volumes and curtailment or closure of operations. The forest products industry is highly cyclical. Historically, economic and market shifts, fluctuations in capacity and changes in foreign currency exchange rates have created cyclical changes in prices, sales volume and margins for our products. Most of our paper and wood products are commodities that are widely available from other producers and even our coated and specialty paper is susceptible to these fluctuations. Because our commodity products have few distinguishing qualities from producer to producer, competition for these products is based primarily on price, which is determined by supply relative to demand. The overall levels of demand for the products we manufacture and distribute and, consequently, our sales and profitability, reflect fluctuations in levels of end-user demand, which depend in part on general economic conditions in North America and worldwide. In 2008, we experienced lower demand and decreased pricing for our wood products due to a weaker U.S. housing market. We are not expecting any significant improvements in the wood products market before the end of 2009. As such, during 2008 we announced the curtailment of annualized capacity of approximately 1.3 billion board feet of lumber in the provinces of Quebec and British Columbia. We are also conducting an in-depth review of our wood products business with the objective of selling non-core assets, consolidating facilities, and curtailing or closing non-contributing operations. Curtailments or shutdowns could result in asset write-downs at the affected facilities and could negatively impact our cash flows and materially affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our manufacturing businesses may have difficulty obtaining fiber at favorable prices, or at all. Fiber is the principal raw material we use in our business. We use both virgin fiber (wood chips and logs) and recycled fiber (old newspapers and magazines) as fiber sources for our paper mills. Wood fiber is a commodity and prices historically have been cyclical. The primary source for wood fiber is timber. Environmental litigation and regulatory developments have caused, and may cause in the future, significant reductions in the amount of timber available for commercial harvest in Canada and the United States. In addition, future domestic or foreign legislation, litigation advanced by Aboriginal groups and litigation concerning the use of timberlands, the protection of endangered species, the promotion of forest biodiversity and the response to and prevention of catastrophic wildfires could also affect timber supplies. Availability of harvested timber may further be limited by factors such as fire and fire prevention, insect infestation, disease, ice storms, wind storms, drought, flooding and other natural and man-made causes, thereby reducing supply and increasing prices. As is typical in the industry, we do not maintain insurance for any loss to our outstanding timber from natural disasters or other causes. Wood fiber pricing is subject to market influences and our cost of wood fiber may increase in particular regions due to market shifts. In 2008, we experienced lower demand and decreased pricing for our wood products due to a weaker U.S. housing market. We are not expecting any significant improvements in the wood products market before the end of 2009. We and other wood products producers have announced closures or curtailments of sawmills. Continued closures and curtailments are likely to reduce the supply and increase the price of wood fiber. Pricing of recycled fiber increased significantly during the first three quarters of 2008, but began to decrease during the fourth quarter of 2008. For example, prices of old newspapers increased from an average of $118 per ton in December 2007, to averages of $158 per ton, $165 per ton and $195 per ton during the first, second and third quarters of 2008, respectively, and then decreased to $111 per ton during the fourth quarter of 2008. We believe that the price increases in the first three quarters of 2008 were related to expanding paper and packaging capacity in Asia, as well as strong North American demand, and that the price decreases in the fourth quarter of 2008 were due to declining North American demand. There can be no assurance that prices of recycled fiber will remain at their current lower levels. Any sustained increase in fiber prices would increase our operating costs and we may be unable to increase prices for our products in response. 20 Table of Contents Although we believe that the balance of fiber supply between our internal sources and the open market is adequate to support our current wood products and paper and pulp production requirements, there can be no assurance that access to fiber will continue at the same levels achieved in the past. The cost of softwood fiber and the availability of wood chips may be affected. If our cutting rights pursuant to the forest licenses or forest management agreements of Abitibi and Bowater are reduced or if any third-party supplier of wood fiber stops selling or is unable to sell wood fiber to us, our financial condition and operating results could suffer. An increase in the cost of our purchased energy, chemicals and other raw materials would lead to higher manufacturing costs, thereby reducing our margins. Our operations consume substantial amounts of energy, such as electricity, natural gas, fuel oil, coal and wood waste. We buy energy and raw materials, including chemicals, wood, recovered paper and other raw materials, primarily on the open market. The prices for raw materials and energy are volatile and may change rapidly, directly affecting our results of operations. The availability of raw materials and energy may also be disrupted by many factors outside our control, adversely affecting our operations. Energy prices, particularly for electricity, natural gas and fuel oil, have been volatile in recent years and prices for 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008 exceeded historical averages. As a result, fluctuations in energy prices will impact our manufacturing costs and contribute to earnings volatility. We are a major user of renewable natural resources such as water and wood. Accordingly, significant changes in climate and forest diseases or infestation could affect our financial condition and results of operations. The volume and value of timber that we can harvest or purchase may be limited by factors such as fire and fire prevention, insect infestation, disease, ice storms, wind storms, drought, flooding and other natural and man-made causes, thereby reducing supply and increasing prices. As is typical in the industry, we do not maintain insurance for any loss to our standing timber from natural disasters or other causes. Also, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to maintain our rights to utilize water or to renew them at conditions comparable to those currently in effect. For our commodity products, the relationship between industry supply and demand for these products, rather than changes in the cost of raw materials, will determine our ability to increase prices. Consequently, we may be unable to pass along increases in our operating costs to our customers. Any sustained increase in energy, chemical or raw material prices without any corresponding increase in product pricing would reduce our operating margins and potentially require us to limit or cease operations of one or more of our machines. The sale of certain of our hydroelectric facilities may result in an increase in energy and other costs. The sale of certain of our hydroelectric facilities, as discussed below, if approved by the applicable courts in connection with the Creditor Protection Proceedings, may result in an increase in energy and other costs, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. See the risk factor, “The current decline in the global economy and the Creditor Protection Proceedings may significantly inhibit our ability to sell assets,” for additional information. We could experience disruptions in operations or increased labor costs due to labor disputes. We believe we are the largest employer in the Canadian pulp and paper sector and have the sector’s largest representation by unions. A significant number of our collective bargaining agreements with respect to our paper operations in Eastern Canada will expire in the second quarter of 2009. The collective bargaining agreement for the Calhoun, Tennessee facility, which expired in July 2008, has not been renewed. The collective bargaining agreement which covers the Catawba, South Carolina facility expires in April 2009. The employees at the facility in Mokpo, South Korea have complied with all conditions necessary to strike, but the possibility of a strike or lockout of those employees is not clear. While negotiations with the unions in the past have resulted in collective agreements being signed, as is the case with any negotiation, we may not be able to negotiate acceptable new agreements, which could result in strikes or work stoppages by affected employees. Renewal of collective bargaining agreements could also result in higher wage or benefit costs. Therefore, we could experience a disruption of our operations or higher ongoing labor costs which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada has selected contract talks with us to set the industry-wide pattern for contracts that will replace current agreements that expire at the end of April 2009. At this time, we cannot predict the impact of the Creditor Protection Proceedings on our labor costs and relations. Our operations require substantial capital and we may not have adequate capital resources to provide for all of our capital requirements. Our businesses are capital intensive and require that we regularly incur capital expenditures in order to maintain our equipment, increase our operating efficiency and comply with environmental laws. In addition, significant amounts of capital may be required to modify our equipment to produce alternative grades with better demand characteristics or to make significant improvements in the characteristics of our current products. If our available cash resources and cash generated from operations are not sufficient to fund our operating needs and capital expenditures, we would have to obtain additional funds from borrowings or other available sources or reduce or delay our capital expenditures. The recent credit crisis and downturn in the global economy have resulted in a significant decline in the credit markets and the overall availability of credit. We may not be able to obtain additional funds on favorable terms or at all. If we cannot maintain or upgrade our equipment as we require, we may become unable to manufacture products that compete effectively. At this time, we cannot predict the impact of the Creditor Protection Proceedings on our capital expenditure program. 21 Table of Contents Changes in laws and regulations could adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to a variety of foreign, federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations dealing with trade, employees, transportation, taxes, timber and water rights and the environment. Changes in these laws or regulations or their interpretations or enforcement have required in the past, and could require in the future, substantial expenditures by us and adversely affect our results of operations. For example, changes in environmental laws and regulations have in the past, and could in the future, require us to spend substantial amounts to comply with restrictions on air emissions, wastewater discharge, waste management and landfill sites, including remediation costs. Environmental laws are becoming increasingly stringent. Consequently, our compliance and remediation costs could increase materially. Changes in the political or economic conditions in Canada, the United States or other countries in which our products are manufactured or sold could adversely affect our results of operations. We manufacture products in Canada, the United States, the United Kingdom and South Korea and sell products throughout the world. Paper prices are tied to the health of the economies of North and South America, Asia and Europe, as well as to paper inventory levels in these regions. The economic and political climate of each region has a significant impact on our costs and the prices of, and demand for, our products. Changes in regional economies or political instability, including acts of war or terrorist activities, can affect the cost of manufacturing and distributing our products, pricing and sales volume, directly affecting our results of operations. Such changes could also affect the availability or cost of insurance. We may be subject to environmental liabilities. We are subject to a wide range of general and industry-specific laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing air emissions, wastewater discharges, timber harvesting, the storage, management and disposal of hazardous substances and waste, the clean-up of contaminated sites, landfill operation and closure, forestry operations, endangered species habitat, and health and safety. As an owner and operator of real estate and manufacturing and processing facilities, we may be liable under environmental laws for cleanup and other costs and damages, including tort liability and damages to natural resources, resulting from past or present spills or releases of hazardous or toxic substances on or from our current or former properties. We may incur liability under these laws without regard to whether we knew of, were responsible for, or owned the property at the time of, any spill or release of hazardous or toxic substances on or from our property, or at properties where we arranged for the disposal of regulated materials. Claims may arise out of currently unknown environmental conditions or aggressive enforcement efforts by governmental or private parties. We are subject to physical and financial risks associated with climate change. Our operations are subject to climate variations, which impact the productivity of forests, the distribution and abundance of species and the spread of disease or insect epidemics, which may adversely or positively affect timber production. Over the past several years, changing weather patterns and climatic conditions have added to the unpredictability and frequency of natural disasters such as hurricanes, earthquakes, hailstorms, wildfires, snow and ice storms, which could also affect our woodlands or cause variations in the cost for raw materials such as fiber. Changes in precipitation resulting in droughts could adversely affect our hydroelectric facilities’ production, increasing our energy costs, while increased precipitation may generally have positive effects. To the extent climate change impacts raw material availability or our electricity production, it may also impact our costs or revenues. Furthermore, should financial markets view climate change as a financial risk, our ability to access capital markets or to receive acceptable terms and conditions could be affected. We may be required to record additional long-lived asset impairment charges. Losses related to impairment of long-lived assets are recognized when circumstances indicate the carrying values of the assets may not be recoverable, such as continuing losses in certain locations. When certain indicators that the carrying value of a long-lived asset may not be recoverable are triggered, we evaluate the carrying value of the asset group in relation to its expected undiscounted future cash flows. If the carrying value of the asset group is greater than the expected undiscounted future cash flows, an impairment charge is recorded based on the excess of the long-lived asset group’s carrying value over its fair value. 22 Table of Contents In November 2008, we announced the permanent closure of our previously idled Donnacona and Mackenzie paper mills, based on current market conditions. Upon review of the recoverability of the long-lived assets at these facilities, we recorded long-lived asset impairment charges of $127 million at our Donnacona paper mill and $12 million at our Mackenzie paper mill in the third quarter of 2008. In December 2008, we announced the permanent closure of our Grand Falls, Newfoundland and Labrador newsprint mill by the end of the first quarter of 2009 and our Covington, Tennessee paper converting facility by the end of 2008, based on current market conditions. Upon review of the recoverability of the long-lived assets at these facilities, we recorded long-lived asset impairment charges of $74 million at our Grand Falls newsprint mill and $28 million at our Covington paper converting facility in the fourth quarter of 2008. On March 13, 2009, we announced that we signed a non-binding agreement in principle for the sale of our interests in Manicouagan Power Company Inc. for a total purchase price of approximately Cdn$615 million ($504 million), payable 90% upon the closing of the transaction and 10% on the second anniversary of the closing, subject to adjustment for contingencies. The non-binding agreement is subject to certain terms and conditions including, but not limited to, satisfactory due diligence, obtaining required consents and approvals and execution of definitive agreements (including a long-term power supply agreement for our Baie-Comeau, Quebec paper mill). In the fourth quarter of 2008, we recorded a long-lived asset impairment charge of $181 million related to these assets held for sale. The fair value of these assets was determined based on the net realizable value of the long-lived assets consistent with the terms of the non-binding agreement in principle for the sale. For additional information, see Note 6, “Closure Costs, Impairment of Assets Other than Goodwill and Other Related Charges,” to our Consolidated Financial Statements. It is possible that we could record additional non-cash long-lived asset impairment charges in future periods when there is a triggering event. We have net liabilities with respect to our pension plans and the actual cost of our pension plan obligations could exceed current provisions. As of December 31, 2008, our defined benefit pension plans were under-funded by an aggregate of approximately $389 million on a financial accounting basis. Our future funding obligations for the defined benefit pension plans depend upon changes to the level of benefits provided by the plans, the future performance of assets set aside in trusts for these plans, the level of interest rates used to determine minimum funding levels, actuarial data and demographic experience (e.g., mortality and retirement rates) and any changes in government laws and regulations. Any adverse change to any of these factors may require us to increase our cash contributions to our pension plans and those additional contributions could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and results of operations. We are evaluating our pension and OPEB benefit obligations in the context of the Creditor Protection Proceedings and as a result, our current expectations regarding such obligations in 2009 and beyond are uncertain at this time and are subject to change. The determination of projected benefit obligations and the recognition of expenses related to our pension plan obligations are dependent on assumptions used in calculating these amounts. These assumptions include, among other things, expected rates of return on plan assets, which are developed using our historical experience applied to our target allocation of investments in conjunction with market related data for each individual country in which such plans exist. All assumptions are reviewed periodically with third-party actuarial consultants and adjusted as necessary. Recent deterioration in the global securities markets has impacted the value of the assets included in our defined benefit pension plans. In June 2008, in response to market disruptions, management approved a tactical de-risking policy to increase debt securities and reduce equity securities. Over the last half of 2008, debt securities were increased to approximately 75%. Accordingly, during the second half of 2008, we mitigated much of the effect of the volatility that impacted the global equity markets during such period. In December 2008, assets were rebalanced towards a normalized allocation of 50% equity securities and 50% debt securities for the majority of our pension plans. Future minimum cash contributions will not be materially impacted in 2009 as a result of the market volatility in 2008, since the 2009 contributions are largely based on valuations performed as of or prior to January 1, 2008. The decline in the fair value of our plans may, however, increase the minimum cash contributions that will be required in 2010. 23 Table of Contents We may not be compensated for the expropriation of certain assets by the Government of Newfoundland and Labrador. On December 16, 2008, following our December 4, 2008 announcement of the permanent closure of our Grand Falls paper mill, the Government of Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada passed legislation under Bill 75 to expropriate all of our timber rights, water rights, leases and hydroelectric assets in the Province of Newfoundland and Labrador, whether partially or wholly owned through our subsidiaries and affiliated entities. The Government of Newfoundland and Labrador also announced that it does not plan to compensate us for the loss of the water and timber rights, but has indicated that it may compensate us for certain of our hydroelectric assets. However, it has made no commitment to ensure that such compensation would represent the fair market value of such assets. As a result of the expropriation, in the fourth quarter of 2008, we recorded, as an extraordinary loss, a non-cash write-off of the carrying value of the expropriated assets of $256 million, or $4.45 per share, with no related income tax benefit. We have retained legal counsel to review all legal options. On April 23, 2009, we filed a Notice of Intent under NAFTA, relating to the expropriation of these assets specifying violations by the Government of Newfoundland and Labrador under the terms of NAFTA, for which the Government of Canada is responsible. Although there is no guarantee regarding the outcome and receipt of fair compensation under the terms of NAFTA, we believe that the Government of Newfoundland and Labrador has violated the terms of NAFTA, and that we (a U.S. domiciled company) should be fairly compensated for the expropriation. Under the terms of NAFTA, compensation for expropriated assets is based on fair market value. The Notice of Intent asserts that the expropriation was arbitrary, discriminatory and illegal, and we are seeking in excess of CDN$300 million in direct compensation for the fair market value of the expropriated rights and assets, plus additional costs and further relief as the Arbitral Tribunal may deem just and appropriate. We have asserted in the Notice of Intent that the expropriation unquestionably breaches Canada’s NAFTA obligations on a number of grounds, including among others: (i) the criteria for expropriation are not met in Bill 75; (ii) Bill 75 does not ensure payment for the fair market value of the expropriated rights and assets; (iii) Bill 75 purports to strip us of any rights to access the courts, which is independently a violation of NAFTA; and (iv) Bill 75 is retaliatory in nature and discriminates against us. We have filed the Notice of Intent as part of the dispute resolution mechanism available under NAFTA and will submit the claim to arbitration in three months, pursuant to the relevant NAFTA provisions, should this matter not be resolved by that date. Although we believe that the Canadian Government will be required to compensate us for the fair market value of the expropriated assets, we have not recognized any asset for such claim in these financial statements. The current decline in the global economy are the Creditor Protection Proceedings may significantly inhibit our ability to sell assets. We have targeted approximately $750 million in asset sales by the end of 2009, including our 75% equity interest in ACH Limited Partnership, our interests in Manicouagan Power Company Inc., additional timberlands, sawmills, other hydroelectric sites and other assets in order to provide us with additional working capital. However, as a result of the current global economy and credit crisis, it may be difficult for potential purchasers to obtain the financing necessary to buy such assets. As a result, we may be forced to sell the assets for significantly lower amounts than planned or may not be able to sell them at all. In addition, any sale during the Creditor Protection Proceedings will be subject to approval by the applicable court. No assurances can be provided that the applicable court will approve any such sales under their current terms, or at all, or the timing of any such approvals. The late filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K with the SEC could adversely affect our ability to access public capital markets in the future and limit our ability to issue shares of common stock to holders of our convertible notes and to holders of the exchangeable shares of AbitibiBowater Canada Inc. under our existing shelf registration statements. We did not file this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 within the timeframe required by SEC rules. As a result, we will be ineligible to register our securities using short-form registration on Form S-3 for a period of at least 12 months, which could adversely affect our ability to raise capital during this period, or any future period, of non-compliance. In addition, we will be unable to use our previously filed registration statements on Form S-3 for a period of at least 12 months. As a result, we will be unable to deliver freely tradable shares of our common stock to (i) holders of our 8% senior convertible notes due 2013 upon exercise of their conversion rights or (ii) holders of the exchangeable shares of AbitibiBowater Canada Inc. upon exercise of their exchange rights, in each case until we have filed a new registration statement on Form S-1 with respect to such shares and the SEC has declared the registration statement effective (absent reliance on an exemption from the registration requirements of the U.S. securities laws). Under the terms of the registration rights agreement related to the convertible notes, we may be required to pay penalties of up to 0.50% per annum of the principal amount of the convertible notes to the extent we are unable to maintain an effective registration statement for common shares deliverable upon conversion. Under the terms of the amended and restated support agreement related to the exchangeable shares, we are required to take good faith actions to maintain an effective registration statement for shares of common stock of AbitibiBowater deliverable upon exchange of exchangeable shares of AbitibiBowater Canada Inc. In light of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, holders of the exchangeable shares may be unable to exchange such shares for shares of our common stock for a significant period of time. 24 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 