ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to the Tiptree Transaction On March 16, 2010, we announced the entry into a definitive purchase and sale agreement with Tiptree Financial Partners, L.P. (“Tiptree”) under which we have agreed to sell a significant amount of newly issued common stock to Tiptree at $9.00 per share. The sale of common stock to Tiptree is expected to result in a change in control of our company. Pursuant to the purchase and sale agreement, we have agreed to launch a cash tender offer to all of our stockholders to purchase their common stock at $9.00 per share. The following are risks associated with these contemplated transactions. The discussion of the terms of the purchase and sale agreement below is qualified in its entirety by the terms of the agreement itself, which has been filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed on March 16, 2010. The Tiptree transaction is subject to conditions, and there can be no assurance that these conditions will be met. Pursuant to the purchase and sale agreement, Tiptree’s obligation to purchase common stock is subject to certain conditions being met, including: (i) the representations and warranties of the Company in the purchase and sale agreement being true and correct; (ii) the Company performing all covenants and obligations required to be performed under the purchase and sale agreement, (iii) a registration rights agreement and escrow agreement being executed and in full force and effect, (iv) the receipt of all required third party consents, (v) the absence of a Company Material Adverse Effect (as defined in the purchase and sale agreement), (vi) the resignation of three of our current directors and the appointment of four designees from Tiptree to our board of directors, (vii) the receipt of an opinion of counsel regarding the validity of the shares issued to Tiptree, and (viii) the absence of any restraining orders or injunctions relating to the contemplated transactions. If any one or more of these conditions is not met, or waived, then the Tiptree transaction will not be completed. The tender offer contemplated in the Tiptree transaction is subject to conditions, and there can be no assurance that these conditions will be met. Pursuant to the purchase and sale agreement, our obligation to accept for payment shares validly tendered and not withdrawn on the expiration date of the tender offer is subject to the following conditions being met: (i) there being validly tendered and not withdrawn prior to the expiration date a minimum of 10,300,000 shares of our common stock, (ii) Tiptree having deposited in escrow the maximum amount of funds required to be deposited pursuant to the purchase and sale agreement, (iii) approval by our stockholders of the sale of common stock to Tiptree and the abandonment of our previously approved plan of liquidation, (iv) any waiting period applicable to the contemplated transactions having expired or been terminated under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrusts Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, (v) the accuracy of the representations and warranties of Tiptree, (vi) the performance by Tiptree of the covenants and obligations required under the purchase and sale agreement, (vii) the escrow agreement being in full force and effect, (viii) the receipt of any consents required by Tiptree, (ix) the absence of any temporary restraining order, injunction or court order preventing the consummation of the contemplated transactions, or any statute, rule, regulation, or order preventing or prohibiting the consummation of the contemplated transactions and (x) the absence of any Tiptree material adverse effect. If any one or more of these conditions is not met or waived, then we will have the right, under certain circumstances, to terminate the tender offer. Even if the conditions to completion of the Tiptree transaction and the associated tender offer are met, there can be no assurance that these transactions will be completed in a timely manner, under the same terms or at all. There can be no assurance that the Tiptree transaction and the associated tender offer will be completed in a timely manner, under the same terms, or at all. If the Tiptree transaction is terminated for any reason, then the tender offer will also be terminated, and you will not receive the purchase price for your common stock. 20 If the contemplated transactions are not completed, we may pursue the plan of liquidation previously approved by our stockholders or continue to pursue other strategic alternatives. If the contemplated transactions are not completed for any reason (including if the stockholders fail to approve the issuance of the stock to Tiptree or the abandonment of the plan of liquidation), we may pursue the plan of liquidation previously approved by our stockholders. In the event that a liquidation of the Company is pursued, material adjustments to these going concern financial statements may need to be recorded to present liquidation basis financial statements. Material adjustments which may be required for liquidation basis accounting primarily relate to reflecting assets and liabilities at their net realizable value and costs to be incurred to carry out the plan of liquidation. After such adjustments, the likely range of equity value which would be presented in liquidation basis financial statements would be between $8.05 and 8.90 per share. If the contemplated transactions are not completed for any reason (including if the stockholders fail to approve the issuance of stock to Tiptree or the abandonment of the plan of liquidation), we continue to reserve the right to entertain other proposals from third parties to enter into an alternative transaction that returns value to our stockholders, and, if required by applicable law, we will seek stockholder approval for any such alternative transaction. Risks Related to Our Business Adverse economic and geopolitical conditions and disruptions in the credit markets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Our business has been and may continue to be affected by market and economic challenges experienced by the global economy or real estate industry as a whole or by the local economic conditions in the markets where our properties may be located, including the current dislocations in the credit markets and general global economic recession. These current conditions, or similar conditions existing in the future, may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions as a result of the following, among other potential consequences: • the financial condition of our borrowers, tenants and operators may be adversely affected, which may result in defaults under loans or leases due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failures or for other reasons; • foreclosures and losses on our healthcare-related real estate investments and mortgage loans could be higher than those generally experienced in the mortgage lending industry because a portion of the investments we make may be subordinate to other creditors; • our loan-to-value ratio of loans that we have previously extended would increase and our collateral coverage would weaken and increase the possibility of a loss in the event of a borrower default if there is a material decline in real estate values; • our ability to borrow on terms and conditions that we find acceptable, or at all, may be limited, which could reduce our ability to refinance existing debt, reduce our returns from our acquisition activities and increase our future interest expense; and • reduced values of our properties may limit our ability to dispose of assets at attractive prices or to obtain debt financing secured by our properties and may reduce the availability of unsecured loans. We are dependent upon our Manager for our success and may not find a suitable replacement if the management agreement is terminated or such key personnel are no longer available to us. We do not have any employees. Our officers are employees of our Manager and its affiliates. We do not have any separate facilities and are completely reliant on our Manager to conduct our day-to-day operations. We depend on the diligence, skill and network of business contacts of our Manager. Our executive officers and our Manager monitor our investments. The management agreement does not require our Manager to dedicate specific personnel to fulfilling its obligations to us under the management agreement, or require personnel to dedicate a specific amount of time. The departure of a significant number of the professionals of our Manager could have a material adverse effect on our performance. On January 15, 2010, we entered into an amended and restated management 21 agreement with our Manager, which, among other things, extends the term of the management agreement through December 31, 2011. We are subject to the risk that our Manager may terminate the management agreement and that no suitable replacement will be found to manage us. Our Manager has a right to terminate the management agreement without cause under certain circumstances. We can offer no assurance that our Manager will remain our external manager, that we will be able to find an adequate replacement for our Manager should our Manager terminate the management agreement, or that we will continue to have access to our Manager’s principals and professionals. We may be unable to generate sufficient revenue from operations to pay our operating expenses and to make distributions to our stockholders. As a REIT, we generally are required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income each year to our stockholders and we intend to pay quarterly dividends to our stockholders such that we distribute all or substantially all of our taxable income each year, subject to certain adjustments and sufficient available cash. However, our ability to pay dividends may be adversely affected by the risk factors described in this document. In the event of a downturn in our operating results and financial performance or unanticipated declines in the value of our asset portfolio, we may be unable to pay quarterly dividends to our stockholders. The timing and amount of our dividends are in the sole discretion of our board of directors, and will depend upon, among other factors, our earnings, financial condition, maintenance of our REIT qualification and other tax considerations and capital expenditure requirements, in each case as our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. Among the factors that could adversely affect our results of operations and impair our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders are: • the profitability of our investments; • defaults in our asset portfolio or decreases in the value of our portfolio; and • the fact that anticipated operating expense levels may not prove accurate, as actual results may vary from estimates. A change in any one of these factors could affect our ability to pay dividends. We cannot assure our stockholders that we will be able to pay dividends in the future or that the level of any dividends we pay will increase over time. In addition, dividends paid to stockholders are generally taxable to our stockholders as ordinary income, but a portion of our dividends may be designated by us as long-term capital gains to the extent they are attributable to capital gain income recognized by us, or may constitute a return of capital to the extent they exceed our earnings and profits as determined for tax purposes. Distributions in excess of our earnings and profits generally may be tax-free to the extent of each stockholder’s basis in our common stock and generally may be treated as capital gain if they are in excess of basis. Risk Related to a Liquidation On December 10, 2009, our Board of Directors approved a plan of liquidation and recommended that our shareholders approve the plan of liquidation. On January 28, 2010, our stockholders approved the plan of liquidation. We have entered into a definitive agreement for the sale of control of the Company and have not pursued the plan of liquidation. The following risk factors would apply in the event that we fail to close the Tiptree transaction and pursue the plan of liquidation. Pursuing the plan of liquidation may cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT, which would lower the amount of our distributions to our stockholders. We value our status as a REIT under the tax code because while we qualify as a REIT and distribute all of our taxable income, we generally are not subject to federal income tax. Although our board of directors does not presently intend to terminate our REIT status prior to the final distribution of our assets and our dissolution, our board of directors may take actions pursuant to the plan of liquidation which would result in such a loss of REIT status. Upon the final distribution of our assets and our dissolution, our existence and our REIT status will terminate. 22 However, there is a risk that our actions in pursuit of the plan of liquidation may cause us to fail to meet one or more of the requirements that must be met in order to qualify as a REIT prior to completion of the plan of liquidation. For example, to qualify as a REIT, at least 75% of our gross income must come from real estate sources and 95% of our gross income must come from real estate sources and certain other sources that are itemized in the REIT tax laws, mainly interest and dividends. We may encounter difficulties satisfying these requirements as part of the liquidation process. In addition, in selling our assets, we may recognize ordinary income in excess of the cash received. The REIT rules require us to pay out a large portion of our ordinary income in the form of a dividend to stockholders. However, to the extent that we recognize ordinary income without any cash available for distribution, and if we are unable to borrow to fund the required dividend or find another way to meet the REIT distribution requirements, we may cease to qualify as a REIT. While we expect to comply with the requirements necessary to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, if we are unable to do so, we will, among other things (unless entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions): • not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to stockholders in computing our taxable income; • be subject to federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates; • be subject to increased state and local taxes; and • be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the taxable year in which we lose our qualification and for the four following taxable years. As a result of these consequences, our failure to qualify as a REIT could substantially reduce the funds available for distribution to our stockholders. We do not know the exact amount or timing of potential liquidation distributions. We cannot assure our stockholders of the precise nature and amount of any distributions to our stockholders pursuant to the plan of liquidation. Furthermore, the timing of our distributions will be affected, in large part, by our ability to sell our remaining assets in a timely and orderly manner. Our assets currently consist of one mortgage loan and investments in three healthcare real estate portfolios — the Cambridge medical office building portfolio, the Bickford assisted living, independent living and Alzheimer facility portfolio and the SMC independent and assisted living facility portfolio. Management’s estimates of the values of our mortgage loan assets are based on comparable sales figures in prior mortgage loan sales, discussions with bidders and brokers and a confirmatory valuation provided by an outside valuation expert. Management’s estimates of the values of our healthcare real estate investments are based on management’s projections and models, the values ascribed to such investments by bidders for the company, comparable sales figures, discussions with brokers, and, with respect to our investments in Bickford and SMC, a confirmatory valuation provided to us by an outside valuation expert. Management’s estimate of the value of our 85% interest in the Cambridge medical office building portfolio is based on a net present value of the future cash flows that we expect to receive from our Cambridge investment, minus our estimated costs for operating our company during our projected holding period for our Cambridge investment. There can be no assurance that we will be able to find buyers for any or all of our assets, and if we are able to sell such assets, there can be no guaranty that the value received upon such sale will be consistent with management’s estimates. Potential purchasers of our assets may try to take advantage of our liquidation process and offer less-than-optimal prices for our assets. We intend to seek and obtain the highest sales prices reasonably available for our assets, and believe that we can out-wait bargain-hunters; however, we cannot predict how changes in local real estate markets or in the national economy may affect the prices that we can obtain in the liquidation process. Therefore, there can be no assurance that we will receive the proceeds we expect for the sale of our assets. The actual amount available for distribution could be more or less than the range of net liquidating distributions that we estimated in our proxy statement filed on December 28, 2009 (the “Liquidation Proxy Statement”), as updated in the Form 8-K that we filed on January 15, 2010 to announce the amendment to our 23 management agreement (the “Total Liquidation Value Range”), depending on a number of other factors including (i) unknown liabilities or claims, (ii) unexpected or greater or lesser than expected expenses, and (iii) greater or lesser than anticipated net proceeds of asset sales. Distributions will depend on the amount of proceeds we receive from the sale of our assets, when we receive them, and the extent to which we must establish reserves for current or future liabilities. We are currently unable to predict the precise timing of any distributions pursuant to the plan of liquidation. The timing of any distribution will depend upon and could be delayed by, among other things, the timing of the sale of our company’s assets. Additionally, a creditor could seek an injunction against our making distributions to our stockholders on the ground that the amounts to be distributed were needed for the payment of the liabilities and expenses. Any action of this type could delay or substantially diminish the amount, if any, available for distribution to our stockholders. If we are unable to find buyers for our assets at our expected sales prices, our liquidating distributions may be delayed or reduced. As of the date of this annual report on Form 10-K, none of our mortgage loans or healthcare real estate assets are subject to a binding sale agreement providing for their sale. In calculating our Total Liquidation Value Range for our assets, we assumed that we will be able to find buyers for all of our assets at amounts based on our estimated range of values for each investment. However, we may have overestimated the sales prices that we will ultimately be able to obtain for these assets. For example, in order to find buyers in a timely manner, we may be required to lower our asking price below the low end of our current estimate of the asset’s market value. If we are not able to find buyers for these assets in a timely manner or if we have overestimated the sales prices we will receive, our liquidating payments to our stockholders would be delayed or reduced. Furthermore, real estate values are constantly changing and fluctuate with changes in interest rates, supply and demand dynamics, occupancy percentages, lease rates, the availability of suitable buyers, the perceived quality and dependability of income flows from tenancies and a number of other factors, both local and national. Our liquidation proceeds may also be affected by the terms of prepayment or assumption costs associated with debt encumbering our healthcare real estate assets. In addition, minority ownership matters, transactional fees and expenses, environmental contamination at our healthcare real estate assets or unknown liabilities, if any, may adversely impact the net liquidation proceeds from those assets. Decreases in property values may reduce the amount we receive upon a sale of our assets. The underlying value of our healthcare real estate assets may be reduced by a number of factors that are beyond our control, including, without limitation, the following: • adverse changes in economic conditions; • the financial performance of our tenants, and the ability of our tenants to satisfy their obligations under their leases; • potential major repairs which are not presently contemplated or other contingent liabilities associated with the assets; • terminations and renewals of leases by our tenants; • changes in interest rates and the availability of financing; • competition; and • changes in real estate tax rates and other operating expenses Any reduction in the value of our healthcare real estate assets would make it more difficult for us to sell such assets for the amounts that we have estimated. Reductions in the amounts that we receive when we sell our assets could decrease or delay the payment of distributions to stockholders. 24 If our liquidation costs or unpaid liabilities are greater than we expect, our potential liquidating distributions may be delayed or reduced. Before making the final liquidating distribution, we will need to pay or arrange for the payment of all of our transaction costs in the liquidation, all other costs and all valid claims of our creditors. Our board of directors may also decide to acquire one or more insurance policies covering unknown or contingent claims against us, for which we would pay a premium which has not yet been determined. Our board of directors may also decide to establish a reserve fund to pay these contingent claims. The amounts of transaction costs that we will incur in the liquidation are not yet final, so we have used estimates of these costs in calculating our Total Liquidation Value Range. To the extent that we have underestimated these costs in calculating our projections, our actual liquidation value may be lower than our estimated Total Liquidation Value Range. In addition, if the claims of our creditors are greater than we have anticipated or we decide to acquire one or more insurance policies covering unknown or contingent claims against us, our liquidating distributions may be delayed or reduced. Further, if a reserve fund is established, payment of liquidating distributions to our stockholders may be delayed or reduced. The sale of our assets may cause us to be subject to a 100% excise tax on “prohibited transactions,” which would reduce the amount of potential liquidating distributions. REITs are subject to a 100% excise tax on any gain from “prohibited transactions,” which include sales or other dispositions of assets held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of the REIT’s trade or business. The determination of whether property is held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of our trade or business is inherently factual in nature and, thus, cannot be predicted with certainty. The tax code does provide a “safe harbor” which, if all its conditions are met, would protect a REIT’s property sales from being considered prohibited transactions, but we may not be able to satisfy these conditions. While we do not believe that any of our property should be considered to be held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of our trade or business, because of the substantial number of properties that would have to be sold and the active marketing that would be necessary, there is a risk that the Internal Revenue Service would seek to treat some or all of the property sales as prohibited transactions, resulting in the payment of taxes by us as described above, in which case the amount available for distribution to our stockholders could be significantly reduced. If we are unable to satisfy all of our obligations to creditors, or if we have underestimated our future expenses, the amount of potential liquidation proceeds will be reduced. If we pursue the liquidation, we will file articles of dissolution with the State Department of Assessments and Taxation of Maryland promptly after the sale of all of our remaining assets or at such time as our directors have transferred our company’s remaining assets, subject to its liabilities, into a liquidating trust. Pursuant to Maryland law, our company will continue to exist for the purpose of discharging any debts or obligations, collecting and distributing its assets, and doing all other acts required to liquidate and wind up its business and affairs. We intend to pay for all liabilities and distribute all of our remaining assets, which may be accomplished by the formation of a liquidating trust, before we file our articles of dissolution. Under Maryland law, certain obligations or liabilities imposed by law on our stockholders, directors, or officers cannot be avoided by the dissolution. For example, if we make distributions to our stockholders without making adequate provisions for payment of creditors’ claims, our stockholders could be liable to the creditors to the extent of the distributions in excess of the amount of any payments due to creditors. The liability of any stockholder is, however, limited to the amounts previously received by such stockholder from us (and from any liquidating trust). Accordingly, in such event, a stockholder could be required to return all liquidating distributions previously made to such stockholder and a stockholder could receive nothing from us under the plan of liquidation. Moreover, in the event a stockholder has paid taxes on amounts previously received as a liquidation distribution, a repayment of all or a portion of such amount could result in a stockholder incurring a net tax cost if the stockholder’s repayment of an amount previously distributed does not cause a commensurate reduction in taxes payable. Therefore, to the extent that we have underestimated the size of our contingency reserve and distributions to our stockholders have already been made, our stockholders may be required to return some or all of such distributions. 25 Stockholders could be liable to creditors to the extent of liquidating distributions received if contingent reserves are insufficient to satisfy our liabilities. If a court holds at any time that we have failed to make adequate provision for our expenses and liabilities or if the amount ultimately required to be paid in respect of such liabilities exceeds the amount available from the contingency reserve and the assets of the liquidating trust, our creditors could seek an injunction to prevent us from making distributions under the plan of liquidation on the grounds that the amounts to be distributed are needed to provide for the payment of our expenses and liabilities. Any such action could delay or substantially diminish the cash distributions to be made to stockholders and/or holders of beneficial interests of the liquidation trust under the plan of liquidation. Distributions by us may include a return of capital. Distributions payable to stockholders may include a return of capital as well as a return in excess of capital. Distributions exceeding taxable income will constitute a return of capital for federal income tax purposes to the extent of a stockholder’s basis. Distributions in excess of tax basis will generally constitute capital gain. We face potential risks with asset sales. Risks associated with the sale of properties which, if they materialize, may have a material adverse effect on amounts our stockholders may receive, include: • lack of demand by prospective buyers; • inability to find qualified buyers; • inability of buyers to obtain satisfactory financing; • lower than anticipated sale prices; and • the inability to close on sales of properties under contract. The market price of our common stock may decline as we make potential liquidating distributions to our stockholders. Our stock may be delisted from the New York Stock Exchange. Under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange, the exchange has discretionary authority to delist our common stock if we proceed with a plan of liquidation. In addition, the exchange will commence delisting proceedings against us if (i) the average closing price of our common stock falls below $1.00 per share over a 30-day consecutive trading period, (ii) our average market capitalization falls below $15 million over a 30-day consecutive trading period, or (iii) we lose our REIT qualification. Even if the New York Stock Exchange does not move to delist our common stock, we may voluntarily delist our common stock from the exchange in an effort to reduce our operating expenses and maximize our liquidating distributions. If our common stock is delisted, our stockholders may have difficulty trading our common stock on the secondary market. Our stockholders will not be able to buy, sell or transfer our shares of common stock after we file our Articles of Dissolution. We may close our transfer books as of the close of business on the date on which we file Articles of Dissolution with the State Department of Assessments and Taxation of Maryland (the “Final Record Date”) if we proceed with a plan of liquidation. If we follow this course, we anticipate that the Final Record Date will be after the sale of all of our assets or such earlier time as our board of directors transfers all of our remaining assets into a liquidating trust. After the Final Record Date, we will not record any further transfers of our shares of common stock except pursuant to the provisions of a deceased stockholder’s will, intestate succession or operation of law and we will not issue any new stock certificates other than replacement certificates. In addition, after the Final Record Date, we will not issue any shares of common stock upon exercise of outstanding options. Our stockholders’ interests in a liquidating trust 26 are likely to be non-transferable except by will, intestate succession or operation of law. It is anticipated that no further transfers of our shares of common stock will be recognized after the final record date. Our board of directors will have the authority to sell our assets under terms less favorable than those assumed for the purpose of estimating our net liquidation value range in the Liquidation Proxy Statement. Pursuant to the plan of liquidation, our board of directors has the authority to sell any and all of our assets on such terms and to such parties as our board of directors determines in its sole discretion. Our stockholders have no opportunity to vote on such matters and will, therefore, have no right to approve or disapprove the terms of such sales. Our shareholders approved a plan of liquidation on January 28, 2010; however, our board of directors may amend the plan of liquidation at any time. Even though our stockholders approved the plan of liquidation, our board of directors may amend the plan of liquidation without further stockholder approval, to the extent permitted by Maryland law. If we continue with the plan of liquidation, distributing interests in a liquidating trust may cause our stockholders to recognize gain prior to the receipt of cash. The REIT provisions of the tax code generally require that each year we distribute as a dividend to our stockholders 90% of our REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding net capital gain). Liquidating distributions we make pursuant to a plan of liquidation will qualify for the dividends paid deduction, provided that they are made within 24 months of the adoption of such plan. Conditions may arise which cause us not to be able to liquidate within such 24-month period. For instance, it may not be possible to sell our assets at acceptable prices during such period. In such event, rather than retain our assets and risk losing our status as a REIT, we may elect to contribute our remaining assets and liabilities to a liquidating trust in order to meet the 24-month requirement. We may also elect to contribute our remaining assets and liabilities to a liquidating trust within such 24-month period to avoid the costs of operating as a public company. Such a contribution would be treated as a distribution of our remaining assets to our stockholders, followed by a contribution of the assets to the liquidating trust. As a result, a stockholder would recognize gain to the extent his share of the cash and the fair market value of any assets received by the liquidating trust was greater than the stockholder’s basis in his stock, notwithstanding that the stockholder would not contemporaneously receive a distribution of cash or any other assets with which to satisfy the resulting tax liability. In addition, it is possible that the fair market value of the assets received by the liquidating trust, as estimated for purposes of determining the extent of the stockholder’s gain at the time interests in the liquidating trust are distributed to the stockholders, will exceed the cash or fair market value of property received by the liquidating trust on a sale of the assets. In this case, the stockholder would recognize a loss in a taxable year subsequent to the taxable year in which the gain was recognized, which loss may be limited under the Code. If we pursue the plan of liquidation our accounting basis may change, which could require us to write down our assets. If we pursue liquidation, we must change our basis of accounting from the going-concern basis to the liquidation basis of accounting. In order for our financial statements to be in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles under the liquidation basis of accounting, all of our assets must be stated at their estimated net realizable value, and all of our liabilities must be recorded at the estimated amounts at which the liabilities are expected to be settled. Based on the most recent available information, if the plan of liquidation is adopted, we may make liquidating distributions that exceed the carrying amount of our net assets. However, we cannot assure our stockholders what the ultimate amounts of such liquidating distributions will be. Therefore, there is a risk that the liquidation basis of accounting may entail write-downs of certain of our assets to values substantially less than their respective current carrying amounts, and may require that certain of our liabilities be increased or certain other liabilities be recorded to reflect the anticipated effects of an orderly liquidation. 27 Until we determine to pursue the liquidation, we will continue to account for our assets and liabilities under the going-concern basis of accounting. Under the going-concern basis, assets and liabilities are expected to be realized in the normal course of business. However, long-lived assets to be sold or disposed of should be reported at the lower of carrying amount or estimated fair value less cost to sell. For long-lived assets to be held and used, when a change in circumstances occurs, our management must assess whether we can recover the carrying amounts of our long-lived assets. If our management determines that, based on all of the available information, we cannot recover those carrying amounts, an impairment of value of our long-lived assets has occurred and the assets should be written down to their estimated fair value. In addition, write-downs in our assets could reduce the price that a third party would be willing to pay to acquire our stockholders’ shares or our assets. Our dispute with Cambridge regarding our ability to transfer our interests in the Cambridge medical office building portfolio may impair the value of such interests, and if we are not successful in our declaratory judgment action against Cambridge, our ability to transfer our interests in the portfolio may be restricted. Further, if we are not successful in defending against Cambridge’s counterclaim, our ability to carry out transactions may be restricted and we may incur losses. Cambridge, our joint venture partner in the Cambridge medical office building portfolio, has asserted that it possesses the contractual right to approve any transfer, either directly or indirectly, of our interests in the portfolio. We have in the past disagreed and continue to disagree with Cambridge’s assertion and strongly believe that we have the right to transfer, without the approval of Cambridge, our Cambridge interests either through a business combination transaction involving our company or the sale of our wholly owned subsidiary that serves as the general partner of the partnership that holds the direct investment in the portfolio. We contend that Cambridge does not have the indirect right to control the business combination and other activities of the parent entities of the entity through which we made our direct investment in the portfolio. On November 25, 2009, we filed a complaint in federal district court in Texas against Cambridge and its affiliates seeking, among other things, a declaratory judgment to that effect. On January 27, 2010, the Saada Parties answered our complaint, and simultaneously filed counterclaims and a third-party complaint (the “Counterclaims”) that named our subsidiaries ERC Sub LLC and ERC Sub, L.P., external manager CIT Healthcare LLC, and Board Chairman Flint D. Besecker, as additional third-party defendants. The Counterclaims seek four declaratory judgments construing certain contracts among the parties that are basically the mirror image of our declaratory judgment claims. In addition, the Counterclaims also seek monetary damages for purported breaches of fiduciary duty and the duty of good faith and fair dealing, as well as fraudulent inducement, against us and the third-party defendants jointly and severally. The Counterclaims further request indemnification by ERC Sub, L.P., pursuant to a contract between the parties, and the imposition of a “constructive trust” on the proceeds of any future liquidation of Care, to ensure a reservoir of funds from which any liability to the Saada Parties could be paid. Although the Counterclaims do not itemize their asserted damages, they assign these damages a value of $100 million “or more.” In response to the Counterclaims, Care and the third-party defendants filed on March 5, 2010, an omnibus motion to dismiss all of the Counterclaims. Unsuccessful resolution of our dispute with Cambridge may impair the value of our Cambridge interests, which may reduce the amount of liquidating distributions our stockholders receive. In addition, if we are not successful in our declaratory judgment action, our ability to transfer our Cambridge interests may be restricted. Resolution of our dispute with Cambridge may take a considerable amount of time. We also cannot predict when our dispute with Cambridge will be resolved, if at all. Further, if we are not successful in defending against Cambridge’s counterclaim, our ability to carry out transactions may be restricted and we may incur losses. If we are not successful in our declaratory judgment action seeking confirmation that the partnership interests held by Cambridge in the entity through which we made our investment in the Cambridge medical office building portfolio are not entitled to receive liquidating distributions from us, then the amount of potential liquidating distributions available to our stockholders may be reduced. In connection with our investment in the Cambridge medical office building portfolio, we agreed to cause the entity through which our investment was made to issue operating partnership units to Cambridge. The partnership agreement states that these partnership units are entitled to receive an amount per unit linked to the regular quarterly 28 dividends declared and paid on Care common stock. Cambridge has asserted that these partnership units are also entitled to receive amounts linked to other liquidating distributions that our board may declare and pay to our stockholders. We have disagreed and continue to disagree with this assertion. On November 25, 2009, we filed a complaint in federal district court in Texas against Cambridge and its affiliates seeking, among other things, a declaratory judgment that the partnership units held by Cambridge are not entitled to receive any amounts linked to any other special cash distributions declared and paid by our board to our stockholders apart from cash distributions linked to the regular quarterly dividends paid to our stockholders. On January 27, 2010, the Saada Parties answered our complaint, and simultaneously filed counterclaims and a third-party complaint alleging, among other things, that they are entitled to receive the special cash distributions. If we are not successful in our declaratory judgment action, the amount that our stockholders may receive in liquidating distributions may be decreased. Other Risks Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited, which could limit our stockholders’ recourse in the event of actions not in our stockholders’ best interests. Our charter limits the liability of our directors and officers to us and our stockholders for money damages, except for liability resulting from: • actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or • a final judgment based upon a finding of active and deliberate dishonesty by the director or officer that was material to the cause of action adjudicated. In addition, our charter permits us to agree to indemnify our present and former directors and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. Our bylaws require us to indemnify each present or former director or officer, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, in the defense of any proceeding to which he or she is made, or threatened to be made, a party by reason of his or her service to us. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our directors and officers. Compliance with our Investment Company Act exemption imposes limits on our operations. We conduct our operations so as not to become regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Company Act”). We rely on an exemption from registration under Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act, which generally means that at least 55% of our portfolio must be comprised of qualifying real estate assets and at least another 25% of our portfolio must be comprised of additional qualifying real estate assets and real estate-related assets. Rapid changes in the market value or income from our real estate-related investments or non-qualifying assets may make it more difficult for us to maintain our status as a REIT or exemption from the Investment Company Act. If the market value or income potential of real estate-related investments declines as a result of a change in interest rates, prepayment rates or other factors, we may need to increase our real estate investments and income and/or liquidate our non-qualifying assets in order to maintain our REIT status or exemption from the Investment Company Act. If the decline in real estate asset values and/or the decline in qualifying REIT income occur quickly, it may be especially difficult to maintain REIT status. These risks may be exacerbated by the illiquid nature of both real estate and non-real estate assets that we may own. We may have to make investment decisions that we would not make absent the REIT and Investment Company Act considerations. Liability relating to environmental matters may decrease the value of the underlying properties. Under various federal, state and local laws, an owner or operator of real property may become liable for the costs of cleanup of certain hazardous substances released on or under its property. Such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. The presence of hazardous substances may adversely affect an owner’s ability to sell real estate or borrow using real estate as collateral. To the extent that an owner of an underlying property becomes liable for 29 cleanup costs, the ability of the owner to make debt payments may be reduced, which in turn may adversely affect the value of the relevant mortgage asset held by us. We are highly dependent on information systems and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends. We are highly dependent on information systems and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends. Our business is highly dependent on the communications and information systems of our Manager. Any failure or interruption of our Manager’s systems could cause delays or other problems in our securities trading activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect the real estate industry, our profitability and the market for our common stock. The terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001 disrupted the U.S. financial markets, including the real estate capital markets, and negatively impacted the U.S. economy in general. Any future terrorist attacks, the anticipation of any such attacks, the consequences of any military or other response by the U.S. and its allies, and other armed conflicts could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the United States and worldwide financial markets and economy. The economic impact of any such future events could also adversely affect the credit quality of some of our loans and investments and the property underlying our securities. We may suffer losses as a result of the adverse impact of any future attacks and these losses may adversely impact our performance and revenues and may result in volatility of the value of our securities. A prolonged economic slowdown, a recession or declining real estate values could impair the performance of our investments and harm our financial condition, increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. We cannot predict the severity of the effect that potential future terrorist attacks would have on our business. Losses resulting from these types of events may not be fully insurable. In addition, the events of September 11 created significant uncertainty regarding the ability of real estate owners of high profile assets to obtain insurance coverage protecting against terrorist attacks at commercially reasonable rates, if at all. With the enactment of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002, or TRIA, and the subsequent enactment of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act of 2005, which extended TRIA through the end of 2007, insurers must make terrorism insurance available under their property and casualty insurance policies, but this legislation does not regulate the pricing of such insurance. The absence of affordable insurance coverage may adversely affect the general real estate lending market, lending volume and the market’s overall liquidity and may reduce the number of suitable investment opportunities available to us and the pace at which we are able to make investments. If the properties in which we invest are unable to obtain affordable insurance coverage, the value of those investments could decline, and in the event of an uninsured loss, we could lose all or a portion of our investment. Risks Related to Conflicts of Interest and Our Relationship with Our Manager The management agreement was not negotiated on an arms-length basis. As a result, the terms, including fees payable, may not be as favorable to us as if it was negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. The management agreement between Care and its Manager, CIT Healthcare, was negotiated between related parties. As a result, we did not have the benefit of arms-length negotiations of the type normally conducted with an unaffiliated third party and the terms, including fees payable, may not be as favorable to us as if we did engage in negotiations with an unaffiliated third party. We may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights under the management agreement because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with our Manager. 30 Risks Relating to the Healthcare Industry Our investments are expected to be concentrated in healthcare facilities and healthcare-related assets, making us more vulnerable economically than if our investments were more diversified. We own interests in healthcare facilities as well as provide financing for healthcare businesses. A downturn in the healthcare industry or the economy generally could negatively affect our borrowers’ or tenants’ ability to make payments to us and, consequently, our ability to meet debt service obligations or make distributions to our stockholders. These adverse effects could be more pronounced than if we diversified our investments outside of healthcare facilities. Furthermore, some of our tenants and borrowers in the healthcare industry are heavily dependant on reimbursements from the Medicare and Medicaid programs for the bulk of their revenues. Our tenants’ and borrowers’ dependence on reimbursement revenues could cause us to suffer losses in several instances. • If our tenants or borrowers fail to comply with operational covenants and other regulations imposed by these programs, they may lose their eligibility to continue to receive reimbursements under the programs or incur monetary penalties, either of which could result in the tenant’s or borrower’s inability to make scheduled payments to us. • If reimbursement rates do not keep pace with increasing costs of services to eligible recipients, or funding levels decrease as a result of state budget crises or increasing pressures from Medicare and Medicaid to control healthcare costs, our tenants and borrowers may not be able to generate adequate revenues to satisfy their obligations to us. • If a healthcare tenant or borrower were to default on its loan, we would be unable to invoke our rights to the pledged receivables directly as the law prohibits payment of amounts owed to healthcare providers under the Medicare and Medicaid programs to be directed to any entity other than the actual providers. Consequently, we would need a court order to force collection directly against these governmental payors. There is no assurance that we would be successful in obtaining this type of court order. The healthcare industry continues to face various challenges, including increased government and private payor pressure on healthcare providers to control or reduce costs, and increasing competition for patients among healthcare providers in areas with significant unused capacity. We believe that certain of our tenants or borrowers will continue to experience a shift in payor mix away from fee-for-service payors (if any), resulting in an increase in the percentage of revenues attributable to managed care payors, government payors and general industry trends that include pressures to control healthcare costs. Pressures to control healthcare costs and a shift away from traditional health insurance reimbursement have resulted in an increase in the number of patients whose healthcare coverage is provided under managed care plans, such as health maintenance organizations and preferred provider organizations. In addition, due to the aging of the population and the expansion of governmental payor programs, we anticipate that there will be a marked increase in the number of patients reliant on healthcare coverage provided by governmental payors, which in the case of skilled nursing facilities is already significant. These changes could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of some or all of our tenants or borrowers, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could negatively affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. The healthcare industry is heavily regulated and existing and new laws or regulations, changes to existing laws or regulations, loss of licensure or certification or failure to obtain licensure or certification could result in the inability of our borrowers or tenants to make payments to us. The healthcare industry is highly regulated by federal, state and local laws, and is directly affected by federal conditions of participation, state licensing requirements, facility inspections, state and federal reimbursement policies, regulations concerning capital and other expenditures, certification requirements and other such laws, regulations and rules. In addition, establishment of healthcare facilities and transfers of operations of healthcare facilities are subject to regulatory approvals not required for establishment of or transfers of other types of commercial operations and real estate. Sanctions for failure to comply with these regulations and laws include, but are not limited to, loss of or inability to obtain licensure, fines and loss of or inability to obtain certification to 31 participate in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, as well as potential criminal penalties. The failure of a tenant or borrower to comply with such laws, requirements and regulations could affect its ability to establish or continue its operation of the facility or facilities and could adversely affect the tenant’s or borrower’s ability to make payments to us which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could negatively affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. In addition, restrictions and delays in transferring the operations of healthcare facilities, in obtaining new third-party payor contracts including Medicare and Medicaid provider agreements, and in receiving licensure and certification approval from appropriate state and federal agencies by new tenants may affect the ability of our tenants or borrowers to make payments to us. Furthermore, these matters may affect new tenants’ or borrowers’ ability to obtain reimbursement for services rendered, which could adversely affect the ability of our tenants’ or borrowers’ to pay rent to us and to pay principal and interest on their loans from us. Our tenants and borrowers are subject to fraud and abuse laws, the violation of which by a tenant or borrower may jeopardize the tenant’s or borrower’s ability to make payments to us. The federal government and numerous state governments have passed laws and regulations that attempt to eliminate healthcare fraud and abuse by prohibiting business arrangements that induce patient referrals or the ordering of specific ancillary services. In addition, the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 strengthened the federal fraud and abuse laws to provide for stiffer penalties for violations. Violations of these laws may result in the imposition of criminal and civil penalties, including possible exclusion from federal and state healthcare programs. Imposition of any of these penalties upon any of our tenants or borrowers could jeopardize any tenant’s or borrower’s ability to operate a facility or to make payments, thereby potentially adversely affecting us. In the past several years, federal and state governments have significantly increased investigation and enforcement activity to detect and eliminate fraud and abuse in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. In addition, legislation and regulations have been adopted at both state and federal levels, which severely restricts the ability of physicians to refer patients to entities in which they have a financial interest. It is anticipated that the trend toward increased investigation and enforcement activity in the area of fraud and abuse, as well as self-referrals, will continue in future years and could adversely affect our prospective tenants or borrowers and their operations, and in turn their ability to make payments to us. Operators are faced with increased litigation and rising insurance costs that may affect their ability to make their lease or mortgage payments. In some states, advocacy groups have been created to monitor the quality of care at healthcare facilities, and these groups have brought litigation against operators. Also, in several instances, private litigation by patients has succeeded in winning very large damage awards for alleged abuses. The effect of this litigation and potential litigation has been to materially increase the costs of monitoring and reporting quality of care compliance incurred by operators. In addition, the cost of liability and medical malpractice insurance has increased and may continue to increase so long as the present litigation environment affecting the operations of healthcare facilities continues. Continued cost increases could cause our operators to be unable to make their lease or mortgage payments, potentially decreasing our revenue and increasing our collection and litigation costs. Moreover, to the extent we are required to take back the affected facilities, our revenue from those facilities could be reduced or eliminated for an extended period of time. Transfers of healthcare facilities generally require regulatory approvals, and alternative uses of healthcare facilities are limited. Because transfers of healthcare facilities may be subject to regulatory approvals not required for transfers of other types of commercial operations and other types of real estate, there may be delays in transferring operations of our facilities to successor operators or we may be prohibited from transferring operations to a successor operator. In addition, substantially all of the properties that we may acquire or that will secure our loans will be healthcare facilities that may not be easily adapted to non-healthcare related uses. If we are unable to transfer properties at times opportune to us, our revenue and operations may suffer. 32 Economic crisis generally and its affect on state budgets could result in a decrease in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement levels The current economic crisis is having a widespread impact both nationally and at the state level. Healthcare facilities are no different that other businesses and are accordingly not immune from the economic crisis’ impact. Specifically, revenues at all healthcare or related facilities may be impacted as a result of individuals forgoing or decreasing utilization of healthcare services or delaying moves to independent living facilities, assisted living facilities or nursing homes. Furthermore, the federal government in the case of Medicare or the federal matching portion of Medicaid may seek cost reductions in such programs in order to shift federal moneys to pay for the stimulus package or programs assisting the financial sector or other businesses. Finally, many states are facing severe budget short-falls and in some cases facing bankruptcy which could result in a decrease in funding made available for the Medicaid program and a decrease in reimbursement rates for nursing home facilities and other healthcare facilities. To the extent that there is a decrease in utilization of tenants’ healthcare facilities or a reduction in funds available for the Medicare or Medicaid programs, tenants may not have sufficient revenues to pay rent to us or may be forced to discontinue operations. In either case, our revenues and operations could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Investments Since real estate investments are illiquid, we may not be able to sell properties when we desire to do so. Real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. We may not be able to vary our owned real estate portfolio promptly in response to changes in the real estate market. This inability to respond to changes in the performance of our owned real estate investments could adversely affect our ability to service our debt. The real estate market is affected by many factors that are beyond our control, including: • adverse changes in national and local economic and market conditions; • changes in interest rates and in the availability, costs and terms of financing; • changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning and other ordinances and costs of compliance with laws and regulations; • the ongoing need for capital improvements, particularly in older structures; • changes in operating expenses; and • civil unrest, acts of war and natural disasters, including earthquakes and floods, which may result in uninsured and underinsured losses. Because of the unique and specific improvements required for healthcare facilities, we may be required to incur substantial renovation costs to make certain of our properties suitable for other operators and tenants, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Healthcare facilities are typically highly customized and may not be easily adapted to non-healthcare-related uses. The improvements generally required to conform a property to healthcare use, such as upgrading electrical, gas and plumbing infrastructure, are costly and often times tenant-specific. A new or replacement operator or tenant may require different features in a property, depending on that operator’s or tenant’s particular operations. If a current operator or tenant is unable to pay rent and vacates a property, we may incur substantial expenditures to modify a property for a new tenant, or for multiple tenants with varying infrastructure requirements, before we are able to re-lease the space to another tenant. Consequently, our properties may not be suitable for lease to traditional office or other healthcare tenants without significant expenditures or renovations, which costs may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 33 Our use of joint ventures may limit our flexibility with jointly owned investments and could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, REIT status and our ability to sell these joint venture interests. We have invested in joint ventures with other persons or entities when circumstances warrant the use of these structures. We currently have two joint ventures that are not consolidated with our financial statements. Our aggregate investments in these joint ventures represented approximately 17.8% of our total assets at December 31, 2009. Our participation in joint ventures is subject to the risks that: • we could experience an impasse on certain decisions because we do not have sole decision-making authority, which could require us to expend additional resources on resolving such impasses or potential disputes; • our joint venture partners could have investment goals that are not consistent with our investment objectives, including the timing, terms and strategies for any investments; • our joint venture partners might become bankrupt, fail to fund their share of required capital contributions or fail to fulfill their obligations as a joint venture partner, which may require us to infuse our own capital into the venture on behalf of the partner despite other competing uses for such capital; • our joint venture partners may have competing interests in our markets that could create conflict of interest issues; • income and assets owned through joint-venture entities may affect our ability to satisfy requirements related to maintaining our REIT status; • any sale or other disposition of our interest in either joint venture may require lender consent, and we may not be able to obtain such consent or approval; • such transaction may also trigger other contractual rights held by a joint venture partner, lender or other third party depending on how the proposed sale is structured; and • there may be disagreements as to whether a consent and/or approval is required in connection with the consummation of a transaction with a joint venture partner, lender or other third party, or whether such a transaction triggers other contractual rights held by a joint venture partner, lender or other third party, and in either case, those disagreements may result in litigation. Preferred equity investments involve a greater risk of loss than conventional debt financing. We have invested in preferred equity investments and may invest in additional preferred equity investments. Our preferred equity investments involve a higher degree of risk than conventional debt financing due to a variety of factors, including that such investments are subordinate to all of the issuer’s loans and are not secured by property underlying the investment. Furthermore, should the issuer default on our investment, we would only be able to proceed against the entity in which we have an interest, and not the property underlying our investment. As a result, we may not recover some or all of our investment. Our investments in debt securities are subject to specific risks relating to the particular issuer of the securities and to the general risks of investing in subordinated real estate securities. We hold debt securities of healthcare-related issuers. Our investments in debt securities involve specific risks. Our investments in debt securities are subject to risks that include: • delinquency and foreclosure, and losses in the event thereof; • the dependence upon the successful operation of and net income from real property; • risks generally incident to interests in real property; and • risks that may be presented by the type and use of a particular commercial property. 34 Debt securities are generally unsecured and may also be subordinated to other obligations of the issuer. We may also invest in debt securities that are rated below investment grade. As a result, investments in debt securities are also subject to risks of: • limited liquidity in the secondary trading market; • substantial market price volatility resulting from changes in prevailing interest rates; • subordination to the prior claims of banks and other senior lenders to the issuer; • the operation of mandatory sinking fund or call/redemption provisions during periods of declining interest rates that could cause the issuer to reinvest premature redemption proceeds in lower yielding assets; • the possibility that earnings of the debt security issuer may be insufficient to meet its debt service; and • the declining creditworthiness and potential for insolvency of the issuer of such debt securities during periods of rising interest rates and economic downturn. These risks may adversely affect the value of outstanding debt securities and the ability of the issuers thereof to repay principal and interest. Our investments will be subject to risks particular to real property. Our loans are directly or indirectly secured by a lien on real property (or the equity interests in an entity that owns real property) that, upon the occurrence of a default on the loan, could result in our acquiring ownership of the property. Investments in real property or real property-related assets are subject to varying degrees of risk. The value of each property is affected significantly by its ability to generate cash flow and net income, which in turn depends on the amount of rental or other income that can be generated net of expenses required to be incurred with respect to the property. The rental or other income from these properties may be adversely affected by a number of risks, including: • acts of God, including hurricanes, earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters, which may result in uninsured losses; • acts of war or terrorism, including the consequences of terrorist attacks, such as those that occurred on September 11, 2001; • adverse changes in national and local economic and real estate conditions (including business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, changing demographics); • an oversupply of (or a reduction in demand for) space in properties in geographic areas where our investments are concentrated and the attractiveness of particular properties to prospective tenants; • changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance therewith and the potential for liability under applicable laws; and • costs of remediation and liabilities associated with environmental conditions such as indoor mold; and the potential for uninsured or underinsured property losses. Many expenditures associated with properties (such as operating expenses and capital expenditures) cannot be reduced when there is a reduction in income from the properties. Adverse changes in these factors may have a material adverse effect on the ability of our borrowers to pay their loans, as well as on the value that we can realize from properties we own or acquire, and may reduce or eliminate our ability to make distributions to stockholders. The bankruptcy, insolvency or financial deterioration of our facility operators could significantly delay our ability to collect unpaid rents or require us to find new operators. Our financial position and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders may be adversely affected by financial difficulties experienced by any of our major operators, including bankruptcy, insolvency or a general downturn in the business, or in the event any of our major operators do not renew or extend their relationship with us as their lease terms expire. 35 The healthcare industry is highly competitive and we expect that it may become more competitive in the future. Our operators are subject to competition from other healthcare providers that provide similar services. The profitability of healthcare facilities depends upon several factors, including the number of physicians using the healthcare facilities or referring patients there, competitive systems of healthcare delivery and the size and composition of the population in the surrounding area. Private, federal and state payment programs and the effect of other laws and regulations may also have a significant influence on the revenues and income of the properties. If our operators are not competitive with other healthcare providers and are unable to generate income, they may be unable to make rent and loan payments to us, which could adversely affect our cash flow and financial performance and condition. We are exposed to the risk that our operators may not be able to meet their obligations, which may result in their bankruptcy or insolvency. The bankruptcy laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization and the right to terminate an investment, evict an operator, demand immediate repayment and other remedies under our leases and loans may not protect us. An operator in bankruptcy may be able to restrict our ability to collect unpaid rents or interest during the bankruptcy proceeding. Volatility of values of commercial properties may adversely affect our loans and investments. Commercial property values and net operating income derived from such properties are subject to volatility and may be affected adversely by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, national, regional and local economic conditions (which may be affected adversely by industry slowdowns and other factors); changes or continued weakness in specific industry segments; construction quality, age and design; demographics; retroactive changes to building or similar codes; and increases in operating expenses (such as energy costs). In the event a property’s net operating income decreases, a borrower may have difficulty repaying our loan, which could result in losses to us. In addition, decreases in property values reduce the value of the collateral and the potential proceeds available to a borrower to repay our loans, which could also cause us to suffer losses. Insurance on the real estate underlying our investments may not cover all losses. There are certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, terrorism or acts of war that may be uninsurable or not economically insurable. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors, including terrorism or acts of war, also might make the insurance proceeds insufficient to repair or replace a property if it is damaged or destroyed. Under such circumstances, the insurance proceeds received might not be adequate to restore our economic position with respect to the affected real property. Any uninsured loss could result in both loss of cash flow from and the asset value of the affected property. Our due diligence may not reveal all of a borrower’s liabilities and may not reveal other weaknesses in its business. Before investing in a company or making a loan to a borrower, we assess the strength and skills of such entity’s management and other factors that we believe are material to the performance of the investment. In making the assessment and otherwise conducting customary due diligence, we rely on the resources available to us and, in some cases, an investigation by third parties. This process is particularly important and subjective with respect to newly organized entities because there may be little or no information publicly available about the entities. There can be no assurance that our due diligence processes have uncovered all relevant facts or that any investment will be successful. Interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect the value of our assets, net income and common stock. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including governmental monetary and tax policies, domestic and international economic and political considerations and other factors beyond our control. Interest rate fluctuations present a variety of risks, including the risk of a mismatch between asset yields and borrowing rates, variances in the yield curve and fluctuating prepayment rates and may adversely affect our income and value of our common stock. 36 Our portfolio of mortgage loans is comprised of variable rate instruments, each of which bears interest at a stated spread over one-month LIBOR and is funded principally by equity. In periods of declining interest rates, our interest income on loans will be adversely affected. The REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code exclude income on asset hedges from qualifying as income derived from real estate activities. Accordingly, our ability to hedge interest rate risk on a portfolio of assets funded principally by equity is limited. Prepayment rates can increase, adversely affecting yields. The value of our assets may be affected by prepayment rates on mortgage loans. Prepayment rates on loans are influenced by changes in current interest rates on adjustable-rate and fixed-rate mortgage loans and a variety of economic, geographic and other factors beyond our control. Consequently, such prepayment rates cannot be predicted with certainty and no strategy can completely insulate us from prepayment or other such risks. In periods of declining interest rates, prepayments on loans generally increase. If general interest rates decline as well, the proceeds of such prepayments received during such periods are likely to be reinvested by us in assets yielding less than the yields on the assets that were prepaid. In addition, the market value of the assets may, because of the risk of prepayment, benefit less than other fixed income securities from declining interest rates. Under certain interest rate and prepayment scenarios we may fail to recoup fully our cost of acquisition of certain investments. A portion of our investments require payments of prepayment fees upon prepayment or maturity of the investment. We may not be able to structure future investments that contain similar prepayment penalties. Some of our assets may not have prepayment protection. The lack of liquidity in our investments may harm our business. We may, subject to maintaining our REIT qualification and our exemption from regulation under the Investment Company Act, make investments in securities that are not publicly traded. These securities may be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or will otherwise be less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. Federal Income Tax Risks Loss of our status as a REIT would have significant adverse consequences to us and the value of our common stock. If we lose our status as a REIT, we will face serious tax consequences that may substantially reduce the funds available for satisfying our obligations and for distribution to our stockholders for each of the years involved because: • We would be subject to federal income tax as a regular corporation and could face substantial tax liability; • We would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates; • We also could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; • Corporate subsidiaries could be treated as separate taxable corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes; • Any resulting corporate tax liability could be substantial and could reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders, which in turn could have an adverse impact on the value of, and trading prices for, our common stock; and • Unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we will not be able to elect REIT status for four taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified. In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, all distributions to stockholders would continue to be treated as dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earning and profits, although corporate stockholders may be eligible for the dividends received deduction and individual stockholders may be eligible for taxation at the rates 37 generally applicable to long-term capital gains (currently at a maximum rate of 15%) with respect to dividend distributions. We would no longer be required to pay dividends to maintain REIT status. Our ability to satisfy certain REIT qualification tests depends upon our analysis of the characterization and fair market values of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination, and for which we will not obtain independent appraisals. Our compliance with the REIT income and quarterly asset requirements also depends upon our ability to successfully manage the composition of our income and assets on an ongoing basis. Moreover, the proper classification of an instrument as debt or equity for federal income tax purposes and the tax treatment of participation interests that we hold in mortgage loans and may be uncertain in some circumstances, which could affect the application of the REIT qualification requirements as described below. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not contend that our interests in subsidiaries or other issuers will not cause a violation of the REIT requirements. Furthermore, as a result of these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability to implement our business strategy. Although we believe that we qualify as a REIT, we cannot assure our stockholders that we will continue to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT for tax purposes. The 90% distribution requirement under the REIT tax rules will decrease our liquidity and may force us to engage in transactions that may not be consistent with our business plan. To comply with the 90% REIT taxable income distribution requirement applicable to REITs and to avoid a nondeductible 4% excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under federal tax laws, we must make distributions to our stockholders. For distributions with respect to taxable years ending on or before December 31, 2009, recent Internal Revenue Service guidance allows us to satisfy up to 90% of these requirements through the distribution of shares of Care common stock, if certain conditions are met. Although we anticipate that we generally will have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement, it is possible that, from time to time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the 90% distribution requirement or we may decide to retain cash or distribute such greater amount as may be necessary to avoid income and excise taxation. This may be due to the timing differences between the actual receipt of income and actual payment of deductible expenses, on the one hand, and the inclusion of that income and deduction of those expenses in arriving at our taxable income, on the other hand. In addition, non-deductible expenses such as principal amortization or repayments or capital expenditures in excess of non-cash deductions also may cause us to fail to have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement. In the event that timing differences occur or we deem it appropriate to retain cash, we may borrow funds, issue additional equity securities (although we cannot assure our stockholders that we will be able to do so), pay taxable stock dividends, if possible, distribute other property or securities or engage in a transaction intended to enable us to meet the REIT distribution requirements. This may require us to raise additional capital to meet our obligations. Taking such action may not be consistent with our business plan, may increase our costs and may limit our ability to grow. Qualifying as a REIT involves highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to remain qualified as a REIT. Our continued qualification as a REIT will depend on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. In addition, our ability to satisfy the requirements to qualify as a REIT depends in part on the actions of third parties over which we have no control or only limited influence, including in cases where we own an equity interest in an entity that is classified as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. 38 New legislation or administrative or judicial action, in each instance potentially with retroactive effect, could make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a REIT. The present federal income tax treatment of REITs may be modified, possibly with retroactive effect, by legislative, judicial or administrative action at any time, which could affect the federal income tax treatment of an investment in us. The federal income tax rules that affect REITs constantly are under review by persons involved in the legislative process, the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department, which results in statutory changes as well as frequent revisions to regulations and interpretations. On July 30, 2008, the Housing and Economic Recovery Tax Act of 2008 (the “2008 Act”) was enacted into law. The 2008 Act’s sections that affect the REIT provisions of the Code are generally effective for taxable years beginning after its date of enactment, and for us will generally mean that the new provisions apply from and after January 1, 2009, except as otherwise indicated below. The 2008 Act made the following changes to, or clarifications of, the REIT provisions of the Code that could be relevant for us: • Taxable REIT Subsidiaries. The limit on the value of taxable REIT subsidiaries’ securities held by a REIT has been increased from 20% to 25% of the total value of such REIT’s assets. • Rental Income from a TRS. A REIT is generally limited in its ability to earn qualifying rental income from a TRS. The 2008 Act permits a REIT to earn qualifying rental income from the lease of a qualified healthcare property to a TRS if an eligible independent contractor operates the property. • Expanded Prohibited Transactions Safe Harbor. The safe harbor from the prohibited transactions tax for certain sales of real estate assets is expanded by reducing the required minimum holding period from four years to two years, among other changes. • Hedging Income. Income from a hedging transaction entered into after July 30, 2008, that complies with identification procedures set out in U.S. Treasury Regulations and hedges indebtedness incurred or to be incurred by us to acquire or carry real estate assets will not constitute gross income for purposes of both the 75% and 95% gross income tests. • Reclassification Authority. The Secretary of the Treasury is given broad authority to determine whether particular items of gain or income recognized after July 30, 2008, qualify or not under the 75% and 95% gross income tests, or are to be excluded from the measure of gross income for such purposes. Revisions in federal tax laws and interpretations thereof could cause us to change our investments and commitments and affect the tax consequences of an investment in us. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends. The maximum tax rate applicable to income from “qualified dividends” payable to domestic stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates has been reduced by legislation to 15% through the end of 2010. Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for the reduced rates. Although this legislation does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends payable by REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our common stock. The stock ownership limit imposed by the Internal Revenue Code for REITs and our charter may restrict our business combination opportunities. To qualify as a REIT under the Code, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code to include certain entities) at any time during the last half of each taxable year after our first year in which we qualify as a REIT. Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our board of directors to take the actions that are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Unless an exemption is granted by our board of directors, no person (as 39 defined to include entities) may own more than 9.8% in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of our common or capital stock. In addition, our charter generally prohibits beneficial or constructive ownership of shares of our capital stock by any person that owns, actually or constructively, an interest in any of our tenants that would cause us to own, actually or constructively, more than a 9.9% interest in any of our tenants. Our board of directors may grant an exemption in its sole discretion, subject to such conditions, representations and undertakings as it may determine. Our board of directors has granted a limited exemption from the ownership limitation to CIT Holding, our Manager, CIT, GoldenTree Asset Management LP and SAB Capital Management, L.P. but only to the extent that their ownership of our stock could not reasonably be expected to cause us to violate the REIT requirements (in which case they either would be required to sell some of our stock or would become subject to the excess share provisions of our charter, in each case to the extent necessary to enable us to satisfy the REIT requirements). In connection with the Tiptree transaction, our Board of Directors has also granted an exemption to Tiptree from the ownership limitations in our charter. These ownership limitations in our charter are common in REIT charters and are intended to assist us in complying with the tax law requirements and to minimize administrative burdens. However, these ownership limits might also delay or prevent a transaction or a change in our control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Even if we remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, and state or local income, property and transfer taxes, including mortgage recording taxes. In addition, in order to meet the REIT qualification requirements, or to avert the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to certain gains derived by a REIT from dealer property or inventory, we may hold some of our non-healthcare assets through taxable REIT subsidiaries, or TRSs, or other subsidiary corporations that will be subject to corporate-level income tax at regular rates. We will be subject to a 100% penalty tax on certain amounts if the economic arrangements among our tenants, our TRS and us are not comparable to similar arrangements among unrelated parties. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We currently do not have any TRSs. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we continually must satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. We may be unable to pursue investments that would be otherwise advantageous to us in order to satisfy the source-of-income, asset-diversification or distribution requirements for maintaining our status as a REIT. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to make certain attractive investments. Complying with REIT requirements may force us to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must ensure that at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified REIT real estate assets, including certain mortgage loans and mortgage backed securities. The remainder of our investment in securities (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 20% of the value of our total securities can be represented by securities of one or more TRSs (25% beginning in 2009). If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT status, otherwise, we will suffer adverse tax consequences. As a result, we may be required to liquidate from our portfolio otherwise attractive investments. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. 40 Pursuing the plan of liquidation may cause us to be subject to federal income tax, which would reduce the amount of our liquidating distributions. We generally are not subject to federal income tax to the extent that we distribute to our stockholders during each taxable year (or, under certain circumstances, during the subsequent taxable year) dividends equal to our taxable income for the year. However, we are subject to federal income tax to the extent that our taxable income exceeds the amount of dividends paid to our stockholders for the taxable year. In addition, we are subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which certain distributions paid by us with respect to any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income for that year, plus 95% of our capital gain net income for that year, plus 100% of our undistributed taxable income from prior years. While we intend to make distributions to our stockholders sufficient to avoid the imposition of any federal income tax on our taxable income and the imposition of the excise tax, differences in timing between the actual receipt of income and actual payment of deductible expenses, and the inclusion of such income and deduction of such expenses in arriving at our taxable income, could cause us to have to either borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the REIT distribution requirements, find another alternative for meeting the REIT distribution requirements, or pay federal income and excise taxes. The cost of borrowing or the payment of federal income and excise taxes would reduce the funds available for distribution to our stockholders. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively. The REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code substantially limit our ability to hedge our liabilities. Any income from a hedging transaction we enter into to manage risk of interest rate changes or currency fluctuations with respect to borrowings made or to be made to acquire or carry real estate assets does not constitute “gross income” for purposes of the 95% or, with respect to transactions entered into after July 30, 2008, the 75% gross income test, provided that certain requirements are met. To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both of the gross income tests. As a result, we might have to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through one of our domestic TRSs. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities because our domestic TRSs would be subject to tax on gains or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. The tax on prohibited transactions will limit our ability to engage in transactions that would be treated as sales for federal income tax purposes. A REIT’s net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, but including mortgage loans, that are held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of our business. We might be subject to this tax if we were to syndicate or dispose of loans in a manner that was treated as a sale of the loans for federal income tax purposes. Therefore, to avoid the prohibited transactions tax, we may choose not to engage in certain sales of loans at the REIT level, even though the sales otherwise might be beneficial to us. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 