Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. The risks described below are not the only risks we are facing. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operation. We have substantial indebtedness that could adversely affect our financial health, and our efforts to reduce and restructure this indebtedness may not be successful. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2007, AbitibiBowater had outstanding total debt of approximately $5.6 billion, of which $589 million was secured debt, and shareholders’ equity of $1.9 billion. Each of our Abitibi and Bowater subsidiaries has outstanding long-term notes and also utilizes bank credit facilities for working capital and other operating needs. While Bowater is expected to meet its debt service obligations as they come due, Abitibi is currently experiencing a liquidity shortfall and faces significant near-term liquidity problems, all of which is discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Business Strategy and Outlook.” Management does not expect the current liquidity constraints and near term debt repayment obligations at Abitibi to affect the financial condition at Bowater or at the holding company level. Nevertheless, our substantial amount of debt could have important negative consequences. For example, it could: • limit our ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, or refinancing, when needed, for debt service requirements, working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, or other purposes; • increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; 12 Table of Contents • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to make payments on our debt; • cause us to monetize assets such as timberland or production facilities on terms that may be unfavorable to us; • cause us to offer debt or equity securities on terms that may not be favorable to the Company or its shareholders; • reduce funds available for operations, future business opportunities or other purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; • increase employee turnover and uncertainty, divert management’s attention from routine business, and hinder our ability to recruit qualified employees; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. Abitibi has 6.95% Senior Notes, in the principal amount of $196 million, which mature by their terms on April 1, 2008 and 5.25% Senior Notes, in the principal amount of $150 million, which mature by their terms on June 20, 2008. We also have an additional $20 million in indebtedness and the risks attendant thereto that matures by its terms in 2008 and an aggregate of $416 million in notes that mature by their terms in 2009. Our efforts to refinance or restructure this indebtedness are discussed below in the risk factor entitled “Our Abitibi subsidiary has a significant amount of indebtedness that matures in the second quarter of 2008, and significant additional maturities in 2009, that we may be unable to repay, renew or extend.” Bowater’s Canadian facility is a 364-day facility that is currently scheduled to expire on May 30, 2008. Under the terms of the Bowater Canadian facility, so long as lenders holding a majority of the facility commitments agree to renew their commitments for a period of 364 days, Bowater has the right either to replace any lender who declines to renew its commitment with a substitute lender or to renew the facility with only the commitments of the lenders who have agreed to renew their commitments. In the event that lenders holding a majority of the commitments do not agree to extend, we would be forced to seek a new facility for the Bowater Canada operations. No assurance can be given that we will be able to obtain a new facility should a majority of the lenders decline to renew or that we will be able to replace the lender who has notified us that it will not renew. We intend to sell approximately $500 million of our assets in order to reduce our indebtedness. On February 10, 2008, we entered into an agreement with Catalyst Paper Corporation pursuant to which we agreed to sell our Snowflake, Arizona mill and related assets for approximately $180 million, including $161 million in cash and approximately $19 million in retained trade receivables. We expect this sale to close in April 2008, once all conditions to close, including a financing condition, which is expected to be satisfied in part by a fully backstopped rights offering, and certain customary closing conditions have been satisfied. This sale is required to comply with the requirements set forth by the U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”) in October 2007 for approval of Abitibi’s combination with Bowater. If this sale does not close as expected, the DOJ may ask a court to appoint a trustee, who will be empowered to complete the sale on terms then obtainable by the trustee using its reasonable efforts. We continue to explore opportunities for the sale of other assets such as timberland or production facilities, but can make no assurances that we will be able to complete any such sales or that the terms of any such sales would be favorable to us. Our bank credit facilities, the indentures governing our various notes, debentures and other debt securities and the terms and conditions of our other indebtedness may permit us or our subsidiaries to incur or guarantee additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness in some circumstances. To the extent we incur additional indebtedness, some or all of the risks discussed above will increase. Although management believes that we will be able to comply with the terms of its debt agreements, there can be no assurance that we will not be required to refinance all or a portion of its debt or to obtain additional financing. We may be unable to refinance or obtain additional financing because of our high levels of debt and the debt incurrence restrictions under our debt agreements. We may be forced to default on our debt obligations if cash flow is insufficient and refinancing or additional financing is unavailable. If we default under the terms of some of our indebtedness, the relevant debt holders may accelerate the maturity of its obligations, which could cause cross-defaults or cross-acceleration under our other obligations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flows to repay our outstanding indebtedness when it matures, in light of (1) the significant decreases in North American demand for newsprint, which is our principal product, (2) the current weakness in the housing and lumber markets, and (3) the strength of other currencies, particularly the Canadian dollar, against the U.S. dollar. 13 Table of Contents Our Abitibi subsidiary has a significant amount of indebtedness that matures in the second quarter of 2008, and significant additional maturities in 2009, that we may be unable to repay, renew or extend. Abitibi has an aggregate of $346 million of long-term notes that matures between April and June 2008: $196 million principal amount of 6.95% Senior Notes due April 1, 2008 issued by Abitibi and $150 million principal amount of 5.25% Senior Notes due June 20, 2008 issued by Abitibi-Consolidated Company of Canada, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Abitibi. In addition, another subsidiary of Abitibi has $150 million principal amount of 7.875% Senior Notes that will mature in 2009. None of these debts have been refinanced. We are negotiating with various financing sources and actively exploring various alternatives to secure the necessary funds or to otherwise restructure these loans. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Business Strategy and Outlook.” However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to consummate any such financing or restructuring transactions prior to the maturities. The current disrupted state of the credit and capital markets, among other things, is creating a significant impediment to our efforts. In addition, the credit agreement governing Bowater’s bank credit facility substantially restricts the transfer of funds from Bowater to Abitibi. If we are unable to refinance or restructure Abitibi’s 2008 notes on or before their maturities, Abitibi would be in default under the indentures relating to those notes. Such default could trigger defaults under Abitibi’s other indebtedness, which would permit the holders of such indebtedness to accelerate Abitibi’s repayment obligations under them. As a result, if we are unsuccessful in refinancing or restructuring the Abitibi maturities in April or June, Abitibi may be compelled to seek protection under or be forced into a proceeding under Canada’s Companies’ Creditors Arrangement Act, the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, or both. We need additional funds to mitigate the liquidity shortfall at Abitibi and we may not be able to obtain the needed funds on terms that are favorable to us. We are currently seeking additional funds, by borrowing more money and by selling equity-linked securities, to repay Abitibi’s indebtedness and fund our operations. Although we currently have availability under certain of our credit facilities, these facilities and our term loans contain a borrowing base provision and financial covenants that limit the amount we can borrow under the facilities or from other sources. Moreover, the indentures for our outstanding notes contain provisions that may restrict the secured debt we may incur in the future. In addition, the agreement governing Bowater’s bank credit facility substantially restricts the transfer of funds from Bowater to Abitibi. The availability of additional funds, whether from private capital sources (including banks), or the public capital markets, fluctuates as market conditions change. There may be times when the private capital markets and the public debt or equity markets are disrupted and lack sufficient liquidity or when our securities cannot be sold at attractive prices, in which case we may not be able to access capital from these sources. We believe the markets for our indebtedness are currently experiencing this type of disruption, making it difficult to secure the financing we need on terms acceptable to us. We also believe that concerns about our liquidity have contributed to recent declines in our stock price, which may result in greater dilution of our stockholders’ equity if we issue equity or equity-linked securities. In addition, a weakening of our financial condition, including in particular a material increase in our leverage, a decrease in our profitability, or a decrease in our interest coverage ratio or borrowing base, could result in a credit ratings downgrade or change in outlook or otherwise adversely affect our ability to obtain necessary funds. During 2007, Moody’s Investor Service and Fitch Ratings downgraded our corporate and debt ratings and Standard & Poor’s changed its outlook to negative due to, among other things, the projected lower absolute levels of our interest coverage ratio coupled with the general decline in the newsprint market. On February 20, 2008, Fitch Ratings further downgraded our corporate and debt ratings due to, among other things, the declining North American demand for newsprint, the weak U.S. housing and lumber markets, and Fitch’s perception of our ability to refinance our near term indebtedness. On March 10, 2008, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services downgraded the corporate and debt rating on both Abitibi and Bowater and expressed concern regarding our ability to timely address Abitibi’s near term debt maturities given current credit market conditions. It is possible that additional downgrades could occur if our interest coverage, leverage levels and/or outlook for our industry deteriorates further. Even if we are successful in obtaining additional financing, such financing could be costly or have adverse consequences. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity or equity-linked securities, dilution to stockholders would result. If additional funds are raised through the incurrence of debt, we would incur increased debt servicing costs and may become subject to additional restrictive financial and other covenants. We can give no assurance as to the terms or availability of additional capital. 14 Table of Contents We may experience difficulties in integrating the businesses of Abitibi and Bowater and may not realize the anticipated synergies, efficiencies and cost savings from the Combination. The success of the Combination will depend, in significant part, on our ability to realize the anticipated synergies, efficiencies and cost savings from integrating the businesses of Abitibi and Bowater. Our success in realizing these synergies, efficiencies and cost savings, and the timing of this realization, depend on the successful integration of such businesses and operations. We may not be able to accomplish this integration process smoothly or successfully. The necessity of coordinating geographically disparate organizations and addressing possible differences in corporate and regional cultures and management philosophies may increase the difficulties of integration. The integration of certain operations following the Combination will take time and will require the dedication of significant management resources, which may temporarily divert management’s attention from the routine business of AbitibiBowater. Employee uncertainty and lack of focus during the integration process may also disrupt the business of AbitibiBowater. Even if we are able to integrate such businesses and operations successfully, there can be no assurance that this integration will result in the realization of the full benefits of synergies, efficiencies and cost savings that we currently expect from this integration or that these benefits will be achieved within the time frame or in the manner anticipated. For example, the elimination of duplicative costs may not be possible or may take longer than anticipated, or the benefits from the Combination may be offset by the costs incurred in integrating the businesses and operations or adverse conditions imposed by regulatory authorities on the combined business in connection with granting approval for the Combination. If we do not realize our anticipated synergies and efficiencies, in the amounts or in the time frame expected, or if our management cannot integrate successfully the operations of the two companies, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Developments in alternative media could continue to adversely affect the demand for our products, especially in North America, and our responses to these developments may not be successful. Trends in advertising, electronic data transmission and storage and the Internet could have further adverse effects on traditional print media, including our products and those of our customers, but neither the timing nor the extent of those trends can be predicted with certainty. Our newspaper, magazine and catalog publishing customers may increasingly use, and compete with businesses that use, other forms of media and advertising and electronic data transmission and storage, including television and the Internet, instead of newsprint, coated paper, uncoated specialty papers or other products made by us. The demand for certain of our products weakened significantly over the last several years. For example, industry statistics indicate that North American newsprint consumption has been in decline since 1999 and has experienced annual declines of 5.1% in 2005, 6% in 2006 and 9.8% in 2007. We believe, and certain third party forecasters indicate, that these declines in newsprint demand could continue in 2008 and beyond due to conservation measures taken by publishers, reduced North American newspaper circulation, less space devoted to advertising and substitution to other uncoated mechanical grades. In response to the decline in North American demand for our newsprint product, we have reduced our paper production capacity. Between November 29, 2007 and February 29, 2008, we reduced our newsprint and specialty papers production capacity by almost 1 million metric tons per year. As a result of our continuing review of our business to reduce cost, improve our manufacturing platform, and better position ourselves in the global marketplace, it may be necessary to curtail even more production or permanently shut down even more machines or facilities. We expect to announce the results and detailed action steps from this review during the second quarter of 2008 and additional curtailments or closures could take place by mid-2008. Such curtailments and shut downs would become increasingly likely as North American newsprint demand continues to decline or if market conditions otherwise worsen. Curtailments or shutdowns could result in goodwill or asset write-downs at the affected facilities and could negatively impact our cash flows and materially affect our results of operations and financial condition. Currency fluctuations may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and changes in foreign currency exchange rates can affect our competitive position, selling prices and manufacturing costs. We compete with North American, European and Asian producers in most of our product lines. Our products are sold and denominated in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars and selected foreign currencies. A substantial portion of our manufacturing costs are denominated in Canadian dollars. In addition to the impact of product supply and demand, changes in the relative strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar may also affect international trade flows of these products. A stronger U.S. dollar may attract imports into North America from foreign producers, increase supply and have a downward effect on prices, while a weaker U.S. dollar may encourage U.S. exports and increase manufacturing costs that are in Canadian dollars or other foreign currencies. Variations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies, particularly the Euro and 15 Table of Contents the currencies of Canada, United Kingdom, Sweden and certain Asian countries, will significantly affect our competitive position compared to many of our competitors. We are particularly sensitive to changes in the value of the Canadian dollar versus the U.S. dollar. The impact of these changes depends primarily on our production and sales volume, the proportion of our production and sales that occur in Canada, the proportion of our financial assets and liabilities denominated in Canadian dollars, our hedging levels and the magnitude, and direction and duration of changes in the exchange rate. We expect exchange rate fluctuations to continue to impact costs and revenues; however, we cannot predict the magnitude or direction of this effect for any quarter, and there can be no assurance of any future effects. During 2007, the relative value of the Canadian dollar ranged from a low of US$0.85 in January 2007 to a high of US$1.03 in November 2007. Under the exchange rates, hedging levels and operating conditions that existed during 2007, for every one cent increase in the Canadian-U.S. dollar exchange rate, our operating income, before currency hedging, for 2007 would have been reduced by approximately $14 million. Based on exchange rates, hedging levels and operating conditions projected for the first quarter of 2008, we project that a one-cent increase in the Canadian dollar exchange rate would reduce our operating income for the first quarter by approximately $7 million. If the Canadian dollar remains strong for an extended period of time, it could influence the foreign exchange rate assumptions that are used in our evaluation of goodwill and long-lived assets for impairment and, consequently, result in additional goodwill or asset impairment charges. See the discussion under “Critical Accounting Estimates – Goodwill” and “Critical Accounting Estimates – Long-lived Assets” in Item 7 of this 10-K. We may not be successful in our strategy of increasing our share of coated and specialty papers and competing in growth markets with higher returns. One of the components of our long-term strategy is to improve our portfolio of businesses by focusing on coated and specialty papers and competing more aggressively in growth markets with higher returns. There are risks associated with the implementation of this strategy, which is complicated and which involves a substantial number of mills, machines and personnel. Full implementation of this strategy may also require significant capital investment. To the extent we are unsuccessful in achieving this strategy, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We face intense competition in the forest products industry and the failure to compete effectively would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We compete with numerous forest products companies, some of which have greater financial resources than we do. There has been a continued trend toward consolidation in the forest products industry, leading to new global producers. These global producers are typically large, well-capitalized companies that may have greater flexibility in pricing and financial resources for marketing, investment and expansion than we do. The markets for our products are all highly competitive. Actions by competitors can affect our ability to sell our products and can affect the volatility of the prices at which our products are sold. While the principal basis for competition is price, we also compete on the basis of customer service, quality and product type. There has also been an increasing trend toward consolidation among our customers. With fewer customers in the market for our products, our negotiation position with these customers could be weakened. In addition, our industry is capital intensive, which leads to high fixed costs. Some of our competitors may be lower-cost producers in some of the businesses in which we operate. Global newsprint capacity, particularly Chinese and European newsprint capacity, has been increasing, which is expected to result in lower prices, volumes or both for our exported products. We believe that new hardwood pulp capacity at South American pulp mills has unit costs that are significantly below those of our hardwood kraft pulp mills. Other actions by competitors, such as reducing costs or adding low-cost capacity, may adversely affect our competitive position in the products we manufacture and, consequently, our sales, operating income and cash flows. We may not be able to compete effectively and achieve adequate levels of sales and product margins. Failure to compete effectively would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents The forest products industry is highly cyclical. Fluctuations in the prices of, and the demand for, our products could result in smaller or negative profit margins, lower sales volumes, and curtailment or closure of operations. The forest products industry is highly cyclical. Historically, economic and market shifts, fluctuations in capacity and changes in foreign currency exchange rates have created cyclical changes in prices, sales volume and margins for our products. Most of our paper and wood products are commodities that are widely available from other producers and even our coated and specialty paper is susceptible to these fluctuations. Because our commodity products have few distinguishing qualities from producer to producer, competition for these products is based primarily on price, which is determined by supply relative to demand. The overall levels of demand for the products we manufacture and distribute and, consequently, our sales and profitability, reflect fluctuations in levels of end-user demand, which depend in part on general economic conditions in North America and worldwide. In 2007, we experienced lower demand and decreased pricing for our wood products due to a weaker U.S. housing market. We are not expecting any significant improvements in the wood products market before 2009. As such, we have recently announced the curtailment of annualized capacity of approximately 1.3 billion board feet of lumber in the provinces of Quebec and British Columbia. We are also conducting an in-depth review of our wood products business with the objective of selling non-core assets, consolidating facilities, and curtailing or closing non-contributing operations. Curtailments or shutdowns could result in goodwill or asset write-downs at the affected facilities and could negatively impact our cash flows and materially affect our results of operations and financial condition. See also “Developments in alternative media could continue to adversely affect the demand for our products, especially in North America and our responses to these developments may not be successful.” Our manufacturing businesses may have difficulty obtaining fiber at favorable prices, or at all. Fiber is the principal raw material we use in our business. We use both virgin fiber (wood chips and logs) and recycled fiber (old newspapers and magazines) as fiber sources for our paper mills. Wood fiber is a commodity and prices historically have been cyclical. The primary source for wood fiber is timber. Environmental litigation and regulatory developments have caused, and may cause in the future, significant reductions in the amount of timber available for commercial harvest in Canada and the United States. In addition, future domestic or foreign legislation, litigation advanced by aboriginal groups and litigation concerning the use of timberlands, the protection of endangered species, the promotion of forest biodiversity and the response to and prevention of catastrophic wildfires could also affect timber supplies. Availability of harvested timber may further be limited by factors such as fire and fire prevention, insect infestation, disease, ice storms, wind storms, drought, flooding and other natural and man-made causes, thereby reducing supply and increasing prices. Wood fiber pricing is subject to market influences and our cost of wood fiber may increase in particular regions due to market shifts. In 2007, we experienced lower demand and decreased pricing for our wood products due to a weaker U.S. housing market. We are not expecting any significant improvements in the wood products market before 2009. As such, we have recently announced the curtailment of annualized capacity of approximately 1.3 billion board feet of lumber in the provinces of Quebec and British Columbia. We are also conducting an in-depth review of our wood products business with the objective of selling non-core assets, consolidating facilities, and curtailing or closing non-contributing operations. Other wood products producers have also announced closures or curtailments of sawmills. Continued closures and curtailments are likely to reduce the supply and increase the price of wood fiber. Pricing of recycled fiber has recently been increasing. For example, prices of old newspapers have increased from an average of $88 per ton in December 2006 to $118 per ton in December 2007, reaching a high of $132 per ton in March 2007. We believe that these price increases are related to expanding paper and packaging capacity in Asia, as well as strong North American demand, and that prices may remain at elevated levels. Any sustained increase in fiber prices would increase our operating costs and we may be unable to increase prices for our products in response. Although we believe that the balance of fiber supply between our internal sources and the open market is adequate to support our current wood products and paper and pulp production requirements, there is no assurance that access to fiber will continue at the same levels achieved in the past. The cost of softwood fiber and the availability of wood chips may be affected. If our cutting rights pursuant to the forest licenses or forest management agreements of Abitibi and Bowater are reduced or if any third-party supplier of wood fiber stops selling or is unable to sell wood fiber to us, our financial condition and operating results would suffer. An increase in the cost of our purchased energy, chemicals and other raw materials would lead to higher manufacturing costs, thereby reducing our margins. Our operations consume substantial amounts of energy such as electricity, natural gas, fuel oil, coal and wood waste. We buy energy and raw materials, including chemicals, wood, recovered paper and other raw materials, primarily on the open market. 17 Table of Contents The prices for raw materials and energy are volatile and may change rapidly, directly affecting our results of operations. The availability of raw materials and energy may also be disrupted by many factors outside our control, adversely affecting our operations. Energy prices, particularly for electricity, natural gas and fuel oil, have been volatile in recent years and prices for 2005, 2006 and 2007 exceeded historical averages. As a result, fluctuations in energy prices will impact our manufacturing costs and contribute to earnings volatility. We are a major user of renewable natural resources such as water and wood. Accordingly, significant changes in climate and agricultural diseases or infestation could affect our financial condition and results of operations. The volume and value of timber that we can harvest or purchase may be limited by factors such as fire and fire prevention, insect infestation, disease, ice storms, wind storms, flooding, other weather conditions and other causes. As is typical in the industry, we do not maintain insurance for any loss to our standing timber from natural disasters or other causes. Also, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to maintain our rights to utilize water or to renew them at conditions comparable to those currently in effect. For our commodity products, the relationship between industry supply and demand for these products, rather than changes in the cost of raw materials, will determine our ability to increase prices. Consequently, we may be unable to pass along increases in our operating costs to our customers. Any sustained increase in energy, chemical or raw material prices without any corresponding increase in product pricing would reduce our operating margins and potentially require us to limit or cease operations of one or more of our machines. We could experience disruptions in operations and/or increased labor costs due to labor disputes. We believe we are the largest employer in the Canadian pulp and paper sector and have the sector’s largest representation by unions. A significant number of our collective bargaining agreements with respect to our paper operations in Eastern Canada will expire on the same date in 2009. In early 2008, we initiated negotiations with the union representing the majority of our Eastern Canadian employees on the 2009 agreements. Those negotiations occurred in March 2008 and were not successful in reaching an early agreement. The employees at the facility in Mokpo, South Korea have complied with all conditions necessary to strike, but the possibility of a strike or lockout of those employees is not clear. Furthermore, our collective agreements for our employees at our facilities in Coosa Pines and Calhoun, located in Southeast U.S., and Bridgewater, U.K. will be renewed in 2008. While negotiations with the unions in the past have resulted in collective agreements being signed, as is the case with any negotiation, we may not be able to negotiate acceptable new agreements, which could result in strikes or work stoppages by affected employees. Renewal of collective bargaining agreements could also result in higher wage or benefit costs. Therefore, we could experience a disruption of our operations or higher ongoing labor costs which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our operations require substantial capital and we may not have adequate capital resources to provide for all of our capital requirements. Our businesses are capital intensive and require that we regularly incur capital expenditures in order to maintain our equipment, increase our operating efficiency and comply with environmental laws. If our available cash resources and cash generated from operations are not sufficient to fund our operating needs and capital expenditures, we would have to obtain additional funds from borrowings or other available sources or reduce or delay our capital expenditures. We may not be able to obtain additional funds on favorable terms or at all. In addition, our debt service obligations will reduce our available cash flows. If we cannot maintain or upgrade our equipment as we require, we may become unable to manufacture products that compete effectively in one or more of our product lines. Changes in laws and regulations could adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to a variety of foreign, federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations dealing with trade, employees, transportation, taxes, timber and water rights and the environment. Changes in these laws or regulations or their interpretations or enforcement have required in the past, and could require in the future, substantial expenditures by us and adversely affect our results of operations. For example, changes in environmental laws and regulations have in the past, and could in the future, require us to spend substantial amounts to comply with restrictions on air emissions, wastewater discharge, waste management and landfill sites, including remediation costs. Environmental laws are becoming increasingly stringent. Consequently, our compliance and remediation costs could increase materially. 18 Table of Contents Changes in the political or economic conditions in Canada, the United States or other countries in which our products are manufactured or sold could adversely affect our results of operations. We manufacture products in Canada, the United States, the United Kingdom and South Korea and sell products throughout the world. Paper prices are tied to the health of the economies of North and South America, Asia and Europe, as well as to paper inventory levels in these regions. The economic and political climate of each region has a significant impact on our costs and the prices of, and demand for, our products. Changes in regional economies or political instability, including acts of war or terrorist activities, can affect the cost of manufacturing and distributing our products, pricing and sales volume, directly affecting our results of operations. Such changes could also affect the availability or cost of insurance. We may be subject to environmental liabilities. We are subject to a wide range of general and industry-specific laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing air emissions, wastewater discharges, timber harvesting, the storage, management and disposal of hazardous substances and waste, the clean-up of contaminated sites, landfill operation and closure, forestry operations, endangered species habitat, and health and safety. As an owner and operator of real estate and manufacturing and processing facilities, we may be liable under environmental laws for cleanup and other costs and damages, including tort liability and damages to natural resources, resulting from past or present spills or releases of hazardous or toxic substances on or from our current or former properties. We may incur liability under these laws without regard to whether we knew of, were responsible for, or owned the property at the time of, any spill or release of hazardous or toxic substances on or from our property, or at properties where we arranged for the disposal of regulated materials. Claims may arise out of currently unknown environmental conditions or aggressive enforcement efforts by governmental or private parties. We have net liabilities with respect to our pension plans and the actual cost of our pension plan obligations could exceed current provisions. As of December 31, 2007, our defined benefit pension plans were under-funded by an aggregate of approximately $496 million on a financial accounting basis. Abitibi and Bowater used different measurement dates and assumptions in determining their combined pension plan obligations. Our future funding obligations for the defined benefit pension plans depend upon changes to the level of benefits provided by the plans, the future performance of assets set aside in trusts for these plans, the level of interest rates used to determine minimum funding levels, actuarial data and experience and any changes in government laws and regulations. Any adverse change to any of these factors may require us to increase our cash contributions to our pension plans and those additional contributions could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 