ITEM 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully all of the material risks described below, together with the other information contained in this report before making a decision to invest in our securities. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. This report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of specific factors, including the risks described below. We may proceed with a business combination if public stockholders owning less than 30% of the shares sold in our initial public offering properly exercise their conversion rights. This requirement may make it easier for us to have a business combination approved over stockholder dissent. When we seek stockholder approval of a business combination or any extension of the time period within which we must complete our business combination, we will offer each public stockholder the right to have his, her or its shares of common stock converted to cash if the stockholder votes against the business combination or extension and the business combination is approved and consummated or the extension is approved. We will consummate the business combination only if the following two conditions are met: (i) a majority of the shares of common stock voted by the public stockholders are voted in favor of the business combination and (ii) public stockholders owning less than 30% of the shares sold in our initial public offering cumulatively vote against the business combination or an extension of the time period within which we must consummate our business combination and exercise their conversion rights. There can be no assurance that any converting stockholder will receive an amount that is equal to or more than his, her or its full invested amount. We are a development stage company with no operating history and no revenues, and you have no basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a recently incorporated development stage company with no operating results to date. Because we lack an operating history, you have no basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective of completing an initial business combination with one or more target businesses, as described in this report. We are currently in the process of evaluating and identifying prospective target businesses concerning an initial business combination but may be unable to complete an initial business combination. We will not generate any revenues from operating activities until, at the earliest, after completing an initial business combination. We cannot assure you as to when, or if, an initial business combination will occur. If we expend all of the $100,000 in proceeds from our initial public offering not held in trust and interest income earned of up to $3.5 million on the balance of the trust account that may be released to us to fund our working capital requirements in seeking an initial business combination, but fail to complete such an initial combination, we may never generate any operating revenues. 19 We may not be able to consummate our initial business combination, in which case we would be forced to dissolve and liquidate. We must complete our initial business combination with one or more target businesses that have a fair market value of at least 80% of the sum of the amount held in our trust account at the time of the initial business combination plus the proceeds of the co-investment at the time of our initial business combination (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions of approximately $17.3 million). If we fail to consummate a business combination, we will be forced to dissolve and liquidate. We may not be able to find suitable target businesses within the required time frame. In addition, our negotiating position and our ability to conduct adequate due diligence on any potential target may be reduced as we approach the deadline for the consummation of an initial business combination. If we liquidate before concluding an initial business combination, our public stockholders will receive less than $10.00 per share on distribution of trust account funds and our warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to complete an initial business combination and must liquidate our assets, the per-share liquidation distribution will be less than $10.00 because of the expenses of our initial public offering, our general and administrative expenses and the planned costs of seeking an initial business combination. Furthermore, our outstanding warrants are not entitled to participate in a liquidation distribution and the warrants will therefore expire worthless if we liquidate before completing an initial business combination; and as a result purchasers of our units will have paid the full unit purchase price solely for the share of common stock included in each unit. An effective registration statement must be in place in order for a warrant holder to be able to exercise the warrants. No warrants will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue shares of common stock upon exercise of warrants by a holder unless, at the time of such exercise, we have an effective registration statement under the Securities Act covering the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants and a current prospectus relating to them is available. Although we have undertaken in the warrant agreement, and therefore have a contractual obligation, to use our best efforts to have an effective registration statement covering shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants from the date the warrants become exercisable and to maintain a current prospectus relating to that common stock until the warrants expire or are redeemed, and we intend to comply with our undertaking, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. Our initial founder’s warrants are identical to the warrants sold in our initial public offering except that (i) they only become exercisable after our consummation of our initial business combination if and when the last sales price of our common stock exceeds $14.25 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading day period beginning 90 days after such business combination and (ii) they are non-redeemable. Our additional founder’s warrants are identical to the warrants sold in our initial public offering except that they are non-redeemable. Our co-investment warrants are identical to the warrants sold in our initial public offering except that they will be non-redeemable. Holders of warrants may not be able to exercise their warrants, the market for the warrants may be limited and the warrants may be deprived of any value if there is no effective registration statement covering the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants or the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not current. In such event, the holder of a unit will have paid the entire unit purchase price for the common stock contained in the unit as the warrant will be worthless. Holders of warrants will not be entitled to a cash settlement for their warrants if we fail to have an effective registration statement or a current prospectus available relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants, and the holders’ only remedies in such event will be those available if we are found by a court of law to have breached our contractual obligation to them by failing to do so. 20 An investor will only be able to exercise a warrant if the issuance of common stock upon such exercise has been registered or qualified or is deemed exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. No warrants will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue shares of common stock unless the common stock issuable upon such exercise has been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. Because the exemptions from qualification in certain states for resales of warrants and for issuances of common stock by the issuer upon exercise of a warrant may be different, a warrant may be held by a holder in a state where an exemption is not available for issuance of common stock upon an exercise and the holder will be precluded from exercise of the warrant. Nevertheless, we expect that resales of the warrants as well as issuances of common stock by us upon exercise of a warrant may be made in every state because at the time that the warrants become exercisable (following our completion of an initial business combination), we expect to either continue to be listed on a national securities exchange, which would provide an exemption from registration in every state, or we would register the warrants in every state (or seek another exemption from registration in such states). To the extent an exemption is not available, we will use our best efforts to register the underlying common stock in all states where the holders of our warrants reside. Accordingly, we believe holders in every state will be able to exercise their warrants as long as our prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is current. However, we cannot assure you of this fact. As a result, the warrants may be deprived of any value, the market for the warrants may be limited and the holders of warrants may not be able to exercise their warrants and they may expire worthless if the common stock issuable upon such exercise is not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the warrants reside. You will not be entitled to protections normally afforded to investors in blank check companies. Since the net proceeds of our initial public offering are intended to be used to complete a business combination with a target business that has not been identified, we may be deemed a “blank check” company under the United States securities laws. However, because upon the consummation of our initial public offering we had net tangible assets in excess of $5 million and at that time filed a Form 8-K with the SEC that included an audited balance sheet demonstrating this fact, the SEC has taken the position that we are exempt from Rule 419 under the Securities Act which is designed to protect investors in blank check companies. Accordingly, our public stockholders will not receive the benefits or protections of Rule 419. Among other things, this means we will have a longer period of time to complete a business combination in some circumstances than do companies subject to Rule 419. Moreover, offerings subject to Rule 419 would prohibit the release of any interest earned on funds held in the trust account to us unless and until the funds in the trust account were released to us in connection with our consummation of an initial business combination. 21 Under Delaware law, a court could invalidate the requirement that certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation be amended only by unanimous consent of our stockholders; amendment of those provisions could reduce or eliminate the protections they afford to our stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains certain requirements and restrictions that will apply to us until the consummation of our initial business combination. Specifically, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides, among other things, that: · prior to the consummation of our initial business combination, we shall submit the initial business combination to our stockholders for approval; · we may consummate our initial business combination if approved by a majority of the shares of common stock voted by our public stockholders at a duly held stockholders meeting, and public stockholders owning up to 30% of the shares (minus one share) sold in our initial public offering vote against the business combination and exercise their conversion rights; · if a proposed initial business combination is approved and consummated, public stockholders who exercised their conversion rights and voted against the initial business combination may convert their shares into cash at the conversion price on the closing date of the initial business combination; · if our initial business combination is not consummated by October 10, 2009, then our existence will terminate and we will distribute all amounts in the trust account (except for such amounts as are paid to creditors or reserved for payment to creditors in accordance with Delaware law) and any net assets remaining outside the trust account on a pro rata basis to all of our public stockholders; · we may not consummate any other business combination, merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or similar transaction prior to our initial business combination; · prior to our initial business combination, we may not issue additional stock that participates in any manner in the proceeds of the trust account, or that votes as a class with the common stock sold in our initial public offering on a business combination; · our audit committee shall monitor compliance on a quarterly basis with the terms of our initial public offering and, if any noncompliance is identified, the audit committee is charged with the immediate responsibility to take all action necessary to rectify such noncompliance or otherwise cause compliance with the terms of our initial public offering; and · the audit committee shall review and approve all payments made to our officers, directors and our and their affiliates, other than the payment of an aggregate of $10,000 per month to Steel Partners, Ltd. for office space, secretarial and administrative services, and any payments made to members of our audit committee will be reviewed and approved by our board of directors, with any interested director abstaining from such review and approval. 22 Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation requires that prior to the consummation of our initial business combination we obtain unanimous consent of our stockholders to amend these provisions. However, the validity of unanimous consent provisions under Delaware law has not been settled. A court could conclude that the unanimous consent requirement constitutes a practical prohibition on amendment in violation of the stockholders’ statutory rights to amend the corporate charter. In that case, these provisions could be amended without unanimous consent, and any such amendment could reduce or eliminate the protection these provisions afford to our stockholders. However, we view all of the foregoing provisions as obligations to our stockholders (subject to any fiduciary obligations our management or board may have). In addition, we believe we have an obligation in every case to structure our initial business combination so that not less than 30% of the shares sold in our initial public offering (minus one share) have the ability to be converted to cash by public stockholders exercising their conversion rights and the business combination will still go forward. If third parties bring claims against us, or if we go bankrupt, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per-share liquidation price received by you will be less than approximately $9.87 per share. Our placing of funds in the trust account may not protect those funds from third-party claims against us. Although prior to completion of our initial business combination, we will seek to have all third parties (including any vendors or other entities we engage) and any prospective target businesses enter into valid and enforceable agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements. It is possible that such waiver agreements would be held unenforceable and there is no guarantee that the third parties would not otherwise challenge the agreements and later bring claims against the trust account for monies owed them. In addition, there is no guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and will not seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims that would take priority over the claims of our public stockholders and, as a result, the per-share liquidation price could be less than approximately $9.87, the conversion price based upon restricted amounts held in trust at December 31, 2008. SP Acq LLC and Mr. Lichtenstein have agreed that they will be liable to the company if and to the extent claims by third parties reduce the amounts in the trust account available for payment to our stockholders in the event of a liquidation and the claims are made by a vendor for services rendered, or products sold, to us or by a prospective business target. However, the agreement entered into by SP Acq LLC and Mr. Lichtenstein specifically provides for two exceptions to the indemnity given: there will be no liability (1) as to any claimed amounts owed to a third party who executed a legally enforceable waiver, or (2) as to any claims under our indemnity of the underwriters of our initial public offering against certain liabilities, including liabilities under the Securities Act. Furthermore, there could be claims from parties other than vendors, third parties with which we entered into a contractual relationship or target businesses that would not be covered by the indemnity from SP Acq LLC and Mr. Lichtenstein, such as shareholders and other claimants who are not parties in contract with us who file a claim for damages against us. To the extent that SP Acq LLC and Mr. Lichtenstein refuse to indemnify us for a claim we believe should be indemnified, our officers and directors by virtue of their fiduciary obligations will be obligated to bring a claim against SP Acq LLC and Mr. Lichtenstein to enforce such indemnification. Based on representations as to its status as an accredited investor (as such term is defined in Regulation D under the Securities Act), we currently believe that SP Acq LLC and Mr. Lichtenstein are capable of funding their indemnity obligations, even though we have not asked them to reserve for such an eventuality. We cannot assure you, however, that they would be able to satisfy those obligations. 23 In addition, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us that is not dismissed, the proceeds held in the trust account could be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our stockholders. To the extent any bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account, we cannot assure you that we will be able to return at least approximately $9.87 per share to our public stockholders. Since we have not yet selected a particular industry or any target business with which to complete our initial business combination, you will be unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of the industry or business in which we may ultimately operate. We may consummate an initial business combination with a company in any industry we choose and we are not limited to any particular industry or type of business. Accordingly, there is no current basis for you to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the particular industry in which we may ultimately operate or the target business or businesses with which we may ultimately enter an initial business combination. Although the members of our management team will evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risks present in that target business. Even if we properly assess those risks, some of them may be outside of our control or ability to affect. We also cannot assure you that an investment in our securities will not ultimately prove to be less favorable our public stockholders than a direct investment, if an opportunity were available, in a target business. Our stockholders may be held liable for third parties’ claims against us to the extent of distributions received by them following our dissolution. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that we will continue in existence only until October 10, 2009. If we consummate our initial business combination prior to that date, we will seek to amend this provision to permit our continued existence. If we have not completed our initial business combination by that date, our corporate existence will cease except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating pursuant to Section 278 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Under the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by those stockholders in a dissolution. However, if the corporation complies with certain procedures intended to ensure that it makes reasonable provision for all claims against it, the liability of stockholders with respect to any claim against the corporation is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder. In addition, if the corporation undertakes additional specified procedures, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against the corporation, a 90-day period during which the corporation may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidation distributions are made to stockholders, any liability of stockholders would be barred with respect to any claim on which an action, suit or proceeding is not brought by the third anniversary of the dissolution (or such longer period directed by the Delaware Court of Chancery). While we intend to adopt a plan of distribution making reasonable provision for claims against the company in compliance with the Delaware General Corporation Law, we do not intend to comply with these additional procedures, as we instead intend to distribute the balance in the trust account to our public stockholders as promptly as practicable following termination of our corporate existence. Accordingly, any liability our stockholders may have could extend beyond the third anniversary of our dissolution. We cannot assure you that any reserves for claims and liabilities that we believe to be reasonably adequate when we adopt our plan of dissolution and distribution will suffice. If such reserves are insufficient, stockholders who receive liquidation distributions may subsequently be held liable for claims by creditors of the company to the extent of such distributions. 24 We depend on the limited funds available outside of the trust account and a portion of the interest earned on the trust account balance to fund our search for a target business or businesses and to complete our initial business combination. Of the net proceeds of our initial public offering, $100,000 was available to us initially outside the trust account to fund our working capital requirements. We depend on sufficient interest being earned on the proceeds held in the trust account to provide us with the additional working capital we will need to identify one or more target businesses and to complete our initial business combination. While we are entitled to have released to us for such purposes interest income of up to a maximum of $3.5 million, a substantial decline in interest rates may result in our having insufficient funds available with which to structure, negotiate or close an initial business combination. In such event, we could seek to borrow funds or raise additional investments from our officers and directors or others to operate, although our officers and directors are under no obligation to advance funds to, or to invest in, us. If we have insufficient funds available, we may be forced to liquidate. Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities we may not be able to consummate an attractive initial business combination. We expect to encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds, private equity funds and public and private companies (including blank check companies like ours). Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe that there are numerous potential target businesses that we could acquire our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. In addition, the fact that only a limited number of blank check companies have completed a business combination may be an indication that there are only a limited number of attractive target businesses available to such entities or that many privately held target businesses may not be inclined to enter into business combinations with publicly held blank check companies like ours. Further: · our obligation to seek shareholder approval of a business combination may materially delay the consummation of a transaction; · our obligation to convert into cash up to 30% of the shares of common stock held by public stockholders (minus one share) in certain instances may materially reduce the resources available for a business combination; and · our outstanding warrants, and the future dilution they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. Any of these obligations may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete for an attractive business combination. Additionally, because of these factors, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectuate a business combination within the required time periods. If we are unable to find a suitable target business within the required time periods, we will be forced to liquidate. 25 We may be unable to obtain additional financing if necessary to complete our initial business combination or to fund the operations and growth of a target business, which could compel us to restructure or abandon a particular business combination. We believe that the net proceeds of our initial public offering, the sale of the founder’s units and the sale of the additional founder’s warrants and the proceeds we will receive from the sale of the co-investment units will be sufficient to allow us to consummate our initial business combination. However, because we have no oral or written agreements or letters of intent to engage in a business combination with any entity, we cannot assure you that we will be able to complete our initial business combination or that we will have sufficient capital with which to complete a combination with a particular target business. If the net proceeds of our initial public offering, and the sale of the additional founder’s warrants and the proceeds we will receive from the sale of the co-investment units are not sufficient to facilitate a particular business combination because: · of the size of the target business; · the offering proceeds not in trust and funds available to us from interest earned on the trust account balance are insufficient to fund our search for and negotiations with a target business; or · the amount of cash that we will have available to be used as consideration in connection with our initial business combination will be directly affected by the amount of cash we must use to convert into cash the number of shares of common stock owned by public stockholders who elect to exercise their conversion rights, we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. If additional financing is unavailable to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to restructure or abandon the business combination and seek an alternative target business. In addition, it is possible that we could use a portion of the funds not in the trust account (including amounts we borrowed, if any) to make a deposit, down payment or fund a “no-shop” provision with respect to a particular proposed business combination, although we do not have any current intention to do so. In the event that we were ultimately required to forfeit such funds, and we had already used up the funds allocated to due diligence and related expenses in connection with the aborted transaction, we could be left with insufficient funds to continue searching for, or conduct due diligence with respect to, other potential target businesses. Even if we do not need additional financing to consummate an initial business combination, we may require additional capital — in the form of debt, equity, or a combination of both — to operate or grow any potential business we may acquire. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such additional capital if it is required. If we fail to secure such financing, this failure could have a material adverse effect on the operations or growth of the target business. Other than the co-investment, none of our officers or directors or any other party is required to provide any financing to us in connection with, or following, our initial business combination. 26 If we issue capital stock or convertible debt securities to complete our initial business combination, your equity interest in us could be reduced or there may be a change in control of our company. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 200,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.001 per share. There are 84,776,000 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants, including the initial founder’s warrants and the additional founder’s warrants), and all of the shares of preferred stock available for issuance. Upon consummation of the co-investment, there will be 78,776,000 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants, including the initial founder’s warrants, the additional founder’s warrants and the co-investment warrants). We have no other commitments to date to issue any additional securities. We may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock or may issue preferred stock, or a combination of both, including through convertible debt securities, to complete an initial business combination. Our issuance of additional shares of common stock or any preferred stock: · may significantly reduce your equity interest in us; · will likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may among other things limit our ability to use any net operating loss carry forwards we have, and may result in the resignation or removal of our officers and directors; and · may adversely affect the then-prevailing market price for our common stock. The value of your investment in us may decline if any of these events occur. If we issue debt securities to acquire or finance a target business, our liquidity may be adversely affected and the combined business may face significant interest expense. We may elect to enter into a business combination that requires us to issue debt securities as part of the purchase price for a target business. If we issue debt securities, such issuances may result in an increase in interest expense for the post-combination business and may adversely affect our liquidity in the event of: · a default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating cash flow after a business combination were insufficient to pay principal and interest obligations on our debt; · an acceleration, which could occur even if we are then current in our debt service obligations if the debt securities have covenants that require us to meet certain financial ratios or maintain designated reserves, and such covenants are breached without waiver or renegotiation; · a required immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt securities are payable on demand; or · our inability to obtain any additional financing, if necessary, if the debt securities contain covenants restricting our ability to incur indebtedness. 27 SP Acq LLC, Steel Partners II, L.P. and our Directors collectively own approximately 20% of our shares of common stock and may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. SP Acq LLC, Steel Partners II, L.P. and Messrs. Bergamo, LaBow, Lorber, Toboroff and Walker collectively own approximately 20% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock (and together with its affiliate Steel Partners II, L.P., SP Acq LLC will own approximately 24.2% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock upon consummation of the co-investment). SP Acq LLC, Steel Partners II, L.P. and Messrs. Bergamo, LaBow, Lorber, Toboroff and Walker have agreed, in connection with the stockholder vote required to approve our initial business combination, to vote all of their founder’s shares either for or against the initial business combination as determined by the totality of the stockholder vote and each of them together with our officers and directors has agreed that if it, he or she acquires additional shares of common stock, it, he or she will vote all such acquired shares in favor of our initial business combination. Accordingly, shares of common stock owned by SP Acq LLC, Steel Partners II, L.P. and Messrs. Bergamo, LaBow, Lorber, Toboroff and Walker will not have the same voting or conversion rights as our public stockholders with respect to a potential initial business combination, and none of SP Acq LLC, Steel Partners II, L.P., nor any of our officers or directors will be able to exercise the conversion rights with respect to any of our shares that it, he or she may acquire. Any purchases of stock will be based solely upon the judgment of such person or entity (and may be made to impact the shareholder vote to approve a business combination) and are expected to be effected through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions. However, with the exception of the co-investment none of SP Acq LLC, Steel Partners II, L.P., our officers or our directors has indicated to us any intent to purchase our securities We believe that SP Acq LLC, Steel Partners II, L.P. and our officers and directors will often be in possession of material non-public information about us that will restrict their ability to make purchases of our securities. Some of our current officers and directors may resign upon consummation of our initial business combination. Our ability to effect our initial business combination successfully will be largely dependent upon the efforts of our officers and directors. However, while it is possible that some of our officers and directors will remain associated with us in various capacities following our initial business combination, some of them may resign and some or all of the management of the target business may remain in place. We may have only limited ability to evaluate the management of the target business. We may have only limited ability to evaluate the management of the target business. Although we intend to closely scrutinize the management of a prospective target business in connection with evaluating the desirability of effecting a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of management will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company and the securities laws, which could increase the time and resources we must expend to assist them in becoming familiar with the complex disclosure and financial reporting requirements imposed on U.S. public companies, including the requirement to maintain an effective system of internal controls. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues that may adversely affect the price of our stock. We may seek to effect our initial business combination with one or more privately held companies, which may present certain challenges to us, including the lack of available information about these companies. In pursuing our acquisition strategy, we may seek to effect our initial business combination with one or more privately held companies. By definition, very little public information exists about these companies, and we could be required to make our decision on whether to pursue a potential initial business combination on the basis of limited information. 28 We will not be required to obtain an opinion from an investment banking firm as to the fair market value of a proposed business combination if our board of directors independently determines that the target business has sufficient fair market value and it is possible that any opinion that we obtain would only be able to be relied upon by our board of directors and not by our stockholders. The initial target business that we acquire must have a fair market value equal to at least 80% of the sum of the balance in the trust account plus the proceeds of the co-investment (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions of approximately $17.3 million) at the time of our initial business combination. There is no limitation on our ability to raise funds privately or through loans that would allow us to acquire a target business or businesses with a fair market value in an amount considerably greater than 80% of the sum of the balance in the trust account plus the proceeds of the co-investment (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions as described above) at the time of our initial business combination. Other than the co-investment, we have not had any preliminary discussions, nor have any plans, agreements or commitments, with respect to financing arrangements with any third party. The fair market value of such business will be determined by our board of directors based on all relevant information available at the time, which may differ on a case-by-case basis depending on the specific nature of the target and the structure of the transaction, including the projected performance of the target based on its potential under our business plan (as determined in part upon standards generally accepted by the financial community). If our board is not able to independently determine that the target business has a sufficient fair market value, we will obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated, independent investment banking firm which is a member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. with respect to the satisfaction of such criteria. We expect that any such opinion would be included in our proxy solicitation materials furnished to our stockholders in connection with the stockholder vote on our initial business combination, and that such independent investment banking firm will be a consenting expert. Although management has not consulted with any investment banker in connection with such an opinion, it is possible that the opinion would only be able to be relied upon by our board of directors and not by our stockholders. We will need to consider the cost in making a determination as to whether to hire an investment bank that will allow our stockholders to rely on its opinion, and will do so unless the cost is substantially (approximately $50,000) in excess of what it would be otherwise. In the event that we obtain an opinion that we and the investment banker believe cannot be relied on by our stockholders, we will include disclosure in the proxy statement providing support for that belief. While our stockholders might not have legal recourse against the investment banking firm in such case, the fact that an independent expert has evaluated, and passed upon, the fairness of the transaction is a factor our stockholders may consider in determining whether or not to vote in favor of the potential business combination. We will not be required to obtain an opinion from an investment banking firm as to the fair market value of the business if our board of directors independently determines that the target business or businesses has sufficient fair market value to meet the threshold criteria. In addition, if our board of directors has informed stockholders that it believes that a target business meets the 80% threshold criterion, the board will provide stockholders with valuations or quantify the value of any target. Further, in the event that we issue shares in order to acquire a target and such issuance causes our public stockholders to collectively become minority stockholders, we will not be required to obtain an opinion or independently opine on whether the transaction is fair to our stockholders. We may require stockholders who wish to convert their shares in connection with a proposed business combination to comply with specific requirements for conversion that may make it more difficult for them to exercise their conversion rights prior to the deadline for exercising their rights. We may require public stockholders who wish to convert their shares in connection with a proposed business combination to either tender their certificates to our transfer agent at any time prior to the vote taken at the stockholder meeting relating to such initial business combination or to deliver their shares to the transfer agent electronically using the Depository Trust Company’s DWAC (Deposit/Withdrawal At Custodian) System. In order to obtain a physical stock certificate, a stockholder’s broker and/or clearing broker, DTC and our transfer agent will need to act to facilitate this request. It is our understanding that stockholders should generally allot at least two weeks to obtain physical certificates from the transfer agent. However, because we do not have any control over this process or over the brokers or DTC, it may take significantly longer than two weeks to obtain a physical stock certificate. While we have been advised that it takes a short time to deliver shares through the DWAC System, we cannot assure you of this fact. Accordingly, if it takes longer than we anticipate for stockholders to deliver their shares, stockholders who wish to convert may be unable to meet the deadline for exercising their conversion rights and thus may be unable to convert their shares. In addition, there is a nominal cost associated with the above-referenced tendering process and the act of certificating the shares or delivering them through the DWAC system. The transfer agent will typically charge the tendering broker $35 and it would be up to the broker whether or not to pass this cost on to the converting holder. 29 We may compete with investment vehicles of Steel Partners for access to Steel Partners. Certain of the entities comprising Steel Partners sponsor and currently manage various investment vehicles, and may in the future sponsor or manage additional investment vehicles which, in each case, could result in us competing for access to the benefits that we expect our relationship with Steel Partners to provide to us. We expect to rely upon our access to Steel Partners investment professionals in completing an initial business combination. We expect that we will depend, to a significant extent, on our access to the investment professionals of Steel Partners and the information and deal flow generated by Steel Partners investment professionals in the course of their investment and portfolio management activities to identify and complete our initial business combination. Consequently, the departure of a significant number of the investment professionals of Steel Partners, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to consummate an initial business combination. Members of our management team and our directors are and may in the future become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us, and may have conflicts of interest in allocating their time and business opportunities. Members of our management and our directors may in the future become affiliated with other entities including other blank check companies engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. As a result, members of our management team may become aware of business opportunities that may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as the other entities with which they are or may be affiliated. Moreover, members of our management team are not obligated to expend a specific number of hours per week or month on our affairs. 30 Our business opportunity right of first review agreement with Mr. Lichtenstein and Steel Partners II GP LLC (formerly Steel Partners, L.L.C.), does not apply to companies targeted for acquisition by any business in which Steel Partners II, L.P. directly or indirectly has an investment. We have entered into a business opportunity right of first review agreement with Mr. Lichtenstein and Steel Partners II GP LLC (formerly Steel Partners, L.L.C.) that provides that from the date of our initial public offering until the earlier of the consummation of our initial business combination or our liquidation in the event we do not consummate an initial business combination, we will have a right of first review with respect to business combination opportunities of Steel Partners relating to companies that are not publicly traded on a stock exchange or over-the-counter market with an enterprise value of between $300 million and $1.5 billion. However, this right of first review does not apply to companies targeted for acquisition by any businesses in which Steel Partners II, L.P. directly or indirectly has an investment (including Steel Partners Japan Strategic Fund (Offshore), L.P. or businesses headquartered in or organized under the laws of China. Currently, members of our management team are officers or directors of the following entities in which Steel Partners II, L.P., directly or indirectly, has an investment: Adaptec, Inc., BNS Holding, Inc., Collins Industries, Inc., CoSine Communications, Inc., Del Global Technologies Corp., Gateway Industries, Inc., GenCorp, Inc., Nathan’s Famous Inc., NOVT Corporation, Point Blank Solutions, Inc., Rowan Companies, Inc., SL Industries, Inc., Vector Group Ltd., WebBank, WebFinancial L.P. and WHX Corporation. In addition, such members of our management team could in the future become officers or directors of other entities in which Steel Partners II, L.P., directly or indirectly, has an investment. Due to those existing and future affiliations, members of our management team and our directors may have fiduciary obligations to present potential business opportunities to those entities prior to presenting them to us which could cause additional conflicts of interest. Accordingly, members of our management team may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. We may use resources in researching acquisitions that are not consummated, which could materially and adversely affect subsequent attempts to effect our initial business combination. We expect that the investigation of each specific target business and the negotiation, drafting, and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents, and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys, and others. If a decision is made not to complete a specific business combination, the costs incurred up to that point for the proposed transaction likely would not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific target business, we may fail to consummate the transaction for any number of reasons, including reasons beyond our control, such as that 30% or more of our public stockholders vote against the transaction and opt to convert their stock into a pro rata share of the trust account even if a majority of our stockholders approve the transaction. Any such event will result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred, which could materially and adversely affect subsequent attempts to consummate an initial business combination. Because the founder’s shares will not participate in liquidation distributions by us, SP Acq LLC, directors and our management team may have a conflict of interest in deciding if a particular target business is a good candidate for an initial business combination. SP Acq LLC, Steel Partners II, L.P. and Messrs. Bergamo, LaBow, Lorber, Toboroff and Walker have waived their right to receive distributions with respect to the founder’s shares if we liquidate because we fail to complete a business combination. Those shares of common stock and all of the warrants owned by SP Acq LLC, Steel Partners II, L.P. and Messrs. Bergamo, LaBow, Lorber, Toboroff and Walker will be worthless if we do not consummate our initial business combination. Since Mr. Lichtenstein may be deemed the beneficial owner of shares held by SP Acq LLC and Steel Partners II, L.P., he may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for us and our stockholders. This ownership interest may influence his motivation in identifying and selecting a target business and timely completing an initial business combination. 31 The exercise of discretion by our officers and directors in identifying and selecting one or more suitable target businesses may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interest. Our officers’ and directors’ interests in obtaining reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them may lead to a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for an initial business combination and in the public stockholders’ best interest. Unless we consummate our initial business combination, our officers and directors and Steel Partners and its employees will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the amount of available proceeds not deposited in the trust account and the amount of interest income from the trust account up to a maximum of $3.5 million that may be released to us as working capital. These amounts are based on management’s estimates of the funds needed to finance our operations until the consummation of our initial business combination and to pay expenses in identifying and consummating our initial business combination. Those estimates may prove to be inaccurate, especially if a portion of the available proceeds is used to make a down payment in connection with our initial business combination or pay exclusivity or similar fees or if we expend a significant portion in pursuit of an initial business combination that is not consummated. Our officers and directors may, as part of any business combination, negotiate the repayment of some or all of any such expenses. If the target business’s owners do not agree to such repayment, this could cause our management to view such potential business combination unfavorably, thereby resulting in a conflict of interest. The financial interest of our officers and directors and Steel Partners could influence our officers’ and directors’ motivation in selecting a target business and therefore there may be a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular business combination is in the stockholders’ best interest. In addition, the proceeds we receive from the co-investment (as well as the proceeds of our initial public offering not being placed in the trust account or the income interest earned on the trust account balance) may be used to repay the expenses for which our directors may negotiate repayment as part of our initial business combination. We will probably complete only one business combination with the proceeds of our initial public offering and the sale of the additional founder’s warrants and the co-investment units, meaning our operations will depend on a single business. The net proceeds from our initial public offering and the sale of the additional founder’s warrants provided us with approximately $408,497,676 that we may use to complete our initial business combination ($438,497,676 after the consummation of the co-investment). Our initial business combination must be with a target business or businesses with a fair market value of at least 80% of the sum of the balance in the trust account plus the proceeds of the co-investment at the time of such business combination (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions of approximately $17.3 million). We may not be able to acquire more than one target business because of various factors, including the existence of complex accounting issues and the requirement that we prepare and file pro forma financial statements with the SEC that present operating results and the financial condition of several target businesses as if they had been operated on a combined basis. Additionally, we may encounter numerous logistical issues if we pursue multiple target businesses, including the difficulty of coordinating the timing of negotiations, proxy statement disclosure and closings. We may also be exposed to the risk that our inability to satisfy conditions to closing with one or more target businesses would reduce the fair market value of the remaining target businesses in the combination below the required threshold of 80% of the sum of the amount held in our trust account plus the proceeds of the co-investment (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions of approximately $17.3 million). Due to these added risks, we are more likely to choose a single target business with which to pursue a business combination than multiple target businesses. Unless we combine with a target business in a transaction in which the purchase price consists substantially of common stock and/or preferred stock, it is likely we will complete only our initial business combination with the proceeds of our initial public offering and the sale of the additional founder’s warrants and the co-investment units. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may depend solely on the performance of a single business. If this occurs, our operations will be highly concentrated and we will be exposed to higher risk than other entities that have the resources to complete several business combinations, or that operate in diversified industries or industry segments. 32 If we do not conduct an adequate due diligence investigation of a target business with which we combine, we may be required subsequently to take write downs or write-offs, restructuring, and impairment or other charges that could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our stock price, which could cause you to lose some or all of your investment. In order to meet our disclosure and financial reporting obligations under the federal securities laws, and in order to develop and seek to execute strategic plans for how we can increase the profitability of a target business, realize operating synergies or capitalize on market opportunities, we must conduct a due diligence investigation of one or more target businesses. Intensive due diligence is time consuming and expensive due to the operations, accounting, finance and legal professionals who must be involved in the due diligence process. We may have limited time to conduct such due diligence due to the provision in our Certificate of Incorporation that we complete our initial business combination by October 10, 2009. Even if we conduct extensive due diligence on a target business with which we combine, we cannot assure you that this diligence will uncover all material issues relating to a particular target business, or that factors outside of the target business and outside of our control will not later arise. If our diligence fails to identify issues specific to a target business or the environment in which the target business operates, we may be forced to write-down or write-off assets, restructure our operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in our reporting losses. Even though these charges may be non-cash items and not have an immediate impact on our liquidity, the fact that we report charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our common stock. In addition, charges of this nature may cause us to violate net worth or other covenants to which we may be subject as a result of assuming pre-existing debt held by a target business or by virtue of our obtaining post-combination debt financing. Our outstanding warrants may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult to effect our initial business combination. The units sold in our initial public offering included warrants to purchase 43,289,600 shares of common stock. SP Acq LLC, Steel Partners II, L.P. and Messrs. Bergamo, LaBow, Lorber, Toboroff and Walker collectively hold warrants to purchase an aggregate of 17,822,400 shares of our common stock (comprising the shares of stock purchasable upon exercise of the 10,822,400 initial founder’s warrants and the shares of common stock purchasable upon exercise of the 7,000,000 additional founder’s warrants), and upon consummation of the co-investment Steel Partners II, L.P. will hold an additional 3,000,000 co-investment warrants to purchase shares of our common stock. If we issue common stock to complete our initial business combination, the potential issuance of additional shares of common stock on exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle to some target businesses. This is because exercise of any warrants will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete our initial business combination. Our warrants may make it more difficult to complete our initial business combination or increase the purchase price sought by one or more target businesses. Additionally, the sale or possibility of the sale of the shares underlying the warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our common stock or our units, or on our ability to obtain other financing. If and to the extent these warrants are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. 33 The grant of registration rights to SP Acq LLC, Steel Partners II, L.P. and certain of our directors may make it more difficult to complete our initial business combination, and the future exercise of such rights may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Pursuant to an agreement we have entered into, (i) SP Acq LLC, Steel Partners II, L.P. and Messrs. Bergamo, LaBow, Lorber, Toboroff and Walker can demand that we register the resale of the founder’s units, the founder’s shares and the initial founder’s warrants, and the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the initial founder’s warrants, (ii) SP Acq LLC and Messrs. Bergamo, LaBow, Lorber, Toboroff and Walker can demand that we register the additional founder’s warrants and the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the additional founder’s warrants and (iii) Steel Partners II, L.P. can demand that we register the resale of the co-investment units, the co-investment shares and the co-investment warrants and the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the co-investment warrants. The registration rights will be exercisable with respect to the founder’s units, the founder’s shares, the initial founder’s warrants and shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants, the co-investment units, the co-investment shares and co-investment warrants and shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants at any time commencing three months prior to the date on which the relevant securities are no longer subject to transfer restrictions, and with respect to the additional founder’s warrants and the underlying shares of common stock at any time after the execution of a definitive agreement for an initial business combination. We will bear the cost of registering these securities. If SP Acq LLC, Steel Partners II, L.P. and Messrs. Bergamo, LaBow, Lorber, Toboroff and Walker exercise their registration rights in full, there will be an additional 13,822,400 shares of common stock (including 3,000,000 co-investment shares) and up to 20,822,400 shares (including 3,000,000 shares issuable upon the exercise of co-investment warrants) of common stock issuable on exercise of the warrants eligible for trading in the public market. The registration and availability of such a significant number of securities for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the registration rights may make our initial business combination more costly or difficult to conclude. This is because the stockholders of the target business may increase the equity stake they seek in the combined entity or ask for more cash consideration to offset the negative impact on the market price of our common stock that is expected when the securities owned by SP Acq LLC, Steel Partners II, L.P. and Messrs. Bergamo, LaBow, Lorber, Toboroff and Walker are registered. If adjustments are made to the warrants, you may be deemed to receive a taxable distribution without the receipt of any cash. U.S. holders of units or warrants may, in certain circumstances, be deemed to have received distributions includible in income if adjustments are made to the warrants, even though holders would have not received any cash or property as a result of such adjustments. In certain circumstances, the failure to provide for such an adjustment may also result in a constructive distribution to you. In addition, non-U.S. holders of units or warrants may, in certain circumstances, be deemed to have received a distribution subject to U.S. federal withholding tax requirements. 34 If we are deemed to be an investment company, we must meet burdensome compliance requirements and restrictions on our activities, which may increase the difficulty of completing a business combination. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “Investment Company Act”), the nature of our investments and the issuance of our securities may be subject to various restrictions. These restrictions may make it difficult for us to complete our initial business combination. In addition, we may be subject to burdensome compliance requirements and may have to: · register as an investment company; · adopt a specific form of corporate structure; and · report, maintain records and adhere to voting, proxy, disclosure and other requirements. We do not believe that our principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act. In this regard, our agreement with the trustee states that proceeds in the trust account will be invested only in “government securities” and one or more money market funds, selected by us, which invest principally in either short-term securities issued or guaranteed by the United States having a rating in the highest investment category granted thereby by a recognized credit rating agency at the time of acquisition or tax exempt municipal bonds issued by governmental entities located within the United States. This investment restriction is intended to facilitate our not being considered an investment company under the Investment Company Act. If we are deemed to be subject to the Investment Company Act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would increase our operating expenses and could make our initial business combination more difficult to complete. The loss of Mr. Lichtenstein could adversely affect our ability to complete our initial business combination. Our ability to consummate a business combination is dependent to a large degree upon Mr. Lichtenstein. We believe that our success depends on his continued service to us, at least until we have consummated a business combination. Due to his ownership of SP Acq LLC and his relationship with Steel Partners II, L.P., Mr. Lichtenstein has incentives to remain with us. Nevertheless, we do not have an employment agreement with him, or key-man insurance on his life. He may choose to devote his time to other affairs, or may become unavailable to us for reasons beyond his control, such as death or disability. The unexpected loss of his services for any reason could have a detrimental effect on us. The NYSE Alternext US may delist our securities, which could limit investors’ ability to transact in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. While our securities are currently listed on the NYSE Alternext US, we cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed. Additionally, it is likely that the NYSE Alternext US would require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements, as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements, at the time of our initial business combination. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. If the NYSE Alternext US does not list our securities, or subsequently delists our securities from trading, we could face significant consequences, including: · a limited availability for market quotations for our securities; 35 · reduced liquidity with respect to our securities; · a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock,” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly result in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; · limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and · a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. In addition, we would no longer be subject to NYSE Alternext US rules, including rules requiring us to have a certain number of independent directors and to meet other corporate governance standards. If we acquire a target business with operations located outside the United States, we may encounter risks specific to other countries in which such target business operates. If we acquire a company that has operations outside the United States, we will be exposed to risks that could negatively impact our future results of operations following our initial business combination. The additional risks we may be exposed to in these cases include, but are not limited to: · tariffs and trade barriers; · regulations related to customs and import/export matters; · tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws as compared to the U.S.; · cultural and language differences; · foreign exchange controls; · crime, strikes, riots, civil disturbances, terrorist attacks and wars; · deterioration of political relations with the United States; and · new or more extensive environmental regulation. Foreign currency fluctuations could adversely affect our business and financial results. In addition, a target business with which we combine may do business and generate sales within other countries. Foreign currency fluctuations may affect the costs that we incur in such international operations. It is also possible that some or all of our operating expenses may be incurred in non-U.S. dollar currencies. The appreciation of non-U.S. dollar currencies in those countries where we have operations against the U.S. dollar would increase our costs and could harm our results of operations and financial condition. 36 Because we must furnish our stockholders with target business financial statements prepared in accordance with and reconciled to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we will not be able to complete an initial business combination with some prospective target businesses unless their financial statements are first reconciled to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The federal securities laws require that a business combination meeting certain financial significance tests include historical and/or pro forma financial statement disclosure in periodic reports and proxy materials submitted to stockholders. Our initial business combination must be with a target business that has a fair market value of at least 80% of the sum of the balance in the trust account plus the proceeds of the co-investment (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions of approximately $17.3 million) at the time of our initial business combination. We will be required to provide historical and/or pro forma financial information to our stockholders when seeking approval of a business combination with one or more target businesses. These financial statements must be prepared in accordance with, or be reconciled to, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, and the historical financial statements must be audited in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or PCAOB. If a proposed target business, including one located outside of the U.S., does not have financial statements that have been prepared in accordance with, or that can be reconciled to, U.S. GAAP and audited in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB, we will not be able to acquire that proposed target business. These financial statement requirements may limit the pool of potential target businesses with which we may combine. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 