ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSIn addition to the other information set forth in this Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. In particular, the risks described below could cause actual events to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially affect our business, financial condition or future results.Developments in alternative media are expected to continue to adversely affect the demand for our products, especially in North America, and our responses to these developments may not be successful.Trends in advertising, electronic data transmission and storage, and the Internet are expected to have further adverse effects on the demand for traditional print media, including our products and those of our customers. Neither the timing nor the extent of those trends can be predicted with certainty. Our newspaper, magazine, book and catalog publishing customers could increase their use of, and indeed compete with, other forms of media and advertising and electronic data transmission and storage, such as television, electronic readers and websites. This could then reduce their consumption of newsprint, commercial printing papers or other products we manufacture. The demand for some of our products has weakened significantly over the last several years; for example, according to industry statistics, North American newsprint demand fell by 25% in 2009, 6% in 2010, 7% in 2011, 1% in 2012 and 9% in 2013. This trend, which similarly affects our specialty papers, could continue as a result of developments in alternative media, lower North American newspaper circulation, weaker advertising, grade substitution and conservation measures taken by publishers and retailers. If the trend of consolidation among our customers continues, there could be fewer customers in the market for our products, and our negotiating position with these customers could be weakened.We have responded to the changing market dynamics by optimizing assets and streamlining our production. If demand for our products continues to decline, or if the pace of decline accelerates, it may be necessary to curtail production even further, or permanently shut down more machines and facilities. In addition to the potential loss of production, curtailments and shutdowns could result in asset impairments and cash closure costs for the affected facilities, including restructuring charges and exit or disposal costs, which could negatively impact our cash flows and materially affect our results of operations and financial condition.9Table of ContentsWe could experience disruptions in operations or increased labor costs due to labor disputes.As of December 31, 2013, we employed approximately 8,400 people, of whom approximately 6,200 were represented by bargaining units, primarily the Unifor Union and the Confederation of National Trade Unions, or the CNTU, in Canada and the United Steelworkers International in the U.S. The collective agreements covering approximately 2,000 employees in Canada are scheduled to expire in 2014, affecting eight of our pulp and paper operations and approximately 35% of our pulp and paper production. We also have collective agreements covering 750 employees in 13 woodlands and sawmills operations in Canada that have either expired or are scheduled to expire in 2014. While we intend to negotiate to renew collective agreements, there can be no assurance that we will be able to renew agreements on satisfactory terms, or that we will maintain continuously satisfactory agreements with all of our unionized employees. Given our focus on controlling costs, we expect that labor costs and flexibility in managing our operations will be important topics for discussion in the renewal negotiations. If we are unable to renew the agreements, it could result in strikes, work stoppages or disturbances by affected employees, which could cause us to experience a disruption of operations and affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.Currency fluctuations can adversely affect our competitive position, selling prices and manufacturing costs.We compete with producers from around the world, particularly North America, Europe and South America, in most of our product lines with the exception of wood products, where we compete with other North American producers. We sell our products mainly in transactions denominated in U.S. dollars, but we also sell in certain local currencies, including the euro, the pound sterling and the Canadian dollar. In addition to the impact of product supply and demand, changes in the relative strength or weakness of these currencies, particularly the U.S. dollar, could also affect international trade flows in these products. A stronger U.S. dollar might attract imports, thereby increasing product supply and possibly creating downward pressure on prices. On the other hand, a weaker U.S. dollar might encourage U.S. exports but also increase manufacturing costs in Canadian dollars, or other foreign currencies. Variations in exchange rates could also significantly affect our competitive position. In 2012, for example, the strength of the U.S. dollar against certain European currencies negatively affected the competitive position of North American newsprint producers selling in certain U.S. dollar-denominated international newsprint markets, like Asia and India. Some of our European competitors were able to price business more aggressively in those markets as a result of the relative weakness of their local currency, which negatively affected our ability to compete, forcing us to take steps to limit our exposure to these markets. Conversely, with the strengthening euro in 2013, particularly against the U.S. dollar, exports from North America rose, while they fell from Western Europe.We are particularly sensitive to changes in the value of the Canadian dollar versus the U.S. dollar. The actual impact of these changes depends primarily on the proportion of our production and sales that occur in Canada, the proportion of our financial assets and liabilities denominated in Canadian dollars, and the magnitude, direction and duration of changes in the exchange rate. We expect exchange rate fluctuations to continue to impact costs and revenues, but we cannot predict the magnitude or direction of this effect for any period, and there can be no assurance of any future effects. In the last two years, the Canadian dollar fluctuated between a low of US$0.93 in December of 2013 and a high of US$1.03 in September of 2012. Based on operating projections for 2014, if the Canadian dollar strengthens by one cent against the U.S. dollar, we expect that it will decrease our annual operating income by approximately $15 million, and vice versa.Furthermore, certain other assets and liabilities, including a substantial portion of our net pension and other postretirement benefit, or OPEB, obligations and our deferred income tax assets, are denominated in Canadian dollars. As a result, our earnings can be subject to the potentially significant effect of foreign currency translation gains or losses in respect of these Canadian dollar net monetary assets. In this case, a strengthening of the Canadian dollar against the U.S. dollar in any given period would generally cause a foreign currency translation gain, and a weakening of the Canadian dollar would generally lead to a foreign currency translation loss. We face intense competition in the forest products industry and the failure to compete effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We compete with numerous forest products companies, some of which have greater financial resources than we do. The trend toward consolidation in the forest products industry has led to the formation of sizeable global producers, with greater flexibility in pricing and financial resources for marketing, investment and expansion than we do. Because the markets for our products are all highly competitive, actions by competitors can affect our ability to compete and the volatility of prices at which products are sold.The forest products industry is capital intensive, and requires significant investment to remain competitive. Some of our competitors may be lower-cost producers in some of the businesses in which we operate. In particular, the sizeable investments 10Table of Contentsin new, low-cost hardwood grade pulp capacity in South America, whose costs are expected to be very competitive, and the actions those mills take to bring their product to market, could adversely affect our competitive position in similar grades. This in turn could affect our sales, operating income and cash flows, and push us to consider significant capital investments to remain competitive. Failure to compete effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.Based on market interest, we offer a number of our products, particularly market pulp and wood products, with specific designations to one or more globally-recognized sustainable forest management and chain of custody standards. Our ability to conform to new or existing guidelines for certification depends on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, such as: changes to the interpretation or the application of the standards; the adequacy of government-implemented conservation measures; and the existence of territorial disputes between First Nations and governments. If we are unable to offer certified products, or to meet commitments to supply certified product, it could affect the marketability of our products and our ability to compete with certain producers. The forest products industry is highly cyclical; fluctuations in the prices of, and the demand for, our products could result in small or negative profit margins, lower sales volumes and curtailment or closure of operations.The forest products industry is highly cyclical. The overall levels of demand for the products we manufacture and consequently, our sales and profitability, reflect fluctuations in levels of end-user demand, which depend at least in part on general economic conditions in North America and the world. In addition to end-user demand, we've experienced cyclical changes in prices, sales volume and margins for our products as a result of changing market trends and the effect of capacity fluctuations on supply and demand as well as the relative competitiveness of producers. Because our commodity products have few distinguishing qualities from producer to producer, competition is based mainly on price, which is determined by supply relative to demand, which is in turn affected by the factors described above. We could be required to make contributions to our Canadian pension plans at levels that could be significantly higher than expected, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition. In connection with our emergence from the Creditor Protection Proceedings in 2010, the provinces of Québec and Ontario adopted regulations specific to us, which we refer to as the “funding relief regulations,” to establish parameters concerning the funding of the aggregate solvency deficits in our material Canadian registered pension plans, which we refer to as the “affected plans,” until 2020. These plans represented approximately 75% of our unfunded pension obligations as of December 31, 2013. Because the aggregate solvency ratio in the affected plans was below the minimum solvency level prescribed in the regulations on each of December 31, 2011, and December 31, 2012, the regulations required that we propose corrective measures designed to close the solvency deficit - Cdn$500 million as of December 31, 2011 ($471 million, based on the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2013), and an additional Cdn$130 million as of December 31, 2012 ($122 million, based on the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2013) - within five years of the applicable measurement date. In 2013, we reached an agreement in principle with Company stakeholders in Québec and in Ontario to replace the corrective measures mechanism under the funding relief regulations in favor of set incremental contributions beyond the basic funding under the existing framework. We expect that in the coming months, Québec and Ontario will adopt regulations to implement this revised framework. We cannot currently estimate the additional contributions, if any, that we could be required to make in respect of the corrective measures if the provinces fail to implement the expected regulations and take steps to enforce the current funding relief regulations despite the agreement in principle and the anticipatory additional contributions we made in respect thereof in 2013. In light of the rising interest rate environment, strong asset returns and 2013 funding, when we file the actuarial report in respect of the affected plans in the second quarter of this year, we expect that the solvency deficit as of December 31, 2013, will have decreased significantly from the level at December 31, 2012. Nevertheless, the additional contributions we could be required to make in these circumstances could be material, which would negatively impact our cash flows and materially affect our results of operations or financial condition.It is also possible that provincial pension regulators could attempt to compel additional funding of certain of our Canadian registered pension plans in respect of plan members associated with sites we formerly operated in their respective provinces. In 2012, we filed a motion for directives with the Québec Superior Court in Canada, the court with jurisdiction in the creditor protection proceedings, seeking an order to prevent pension regulators in each of Québec, New Brunswick and Newfoundland and Labrador from declaring partial wind-ups of pension plans relating to employees of former operations in New Brunswick and Newfoundland and Labrador, or a declaration that any claim for accelerated reimbursements of deficits arising from a partial wind-up is a barred claim under the creditor protection proceedings. A partial wind-up would likely shorten the period in which any deficit within those plans, which could reach up to Cdn$150 million ($141 million, based on the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2013), would have to be funded if we do not obtain the relief sought. At this time, we cannot estimate the additional contributions, if any, that may be required in future years, but they could be material.11Table of ContentsWe could be required to record additional valuation allowances against our recorded deferred income tax assets.We recorded significant tax attributes (deferred income tax assets) relating to our Canadian operations in our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2013, which attributes would be available to offset future taxable income. If, in the future, we determine that we are unable to recognize the benefit of these tax attributes as a result of sustained cumulative losses in our Canadian operations, we could be required to record additional valuation allowances for the portion of the deferred income tax assets that are not recoverable. Such valuation allowances, if taken, would be recorded as a charge to income tax expense and would negatively impact our results of operations.The terms of our ABL credit facility and the indenture governing our senior notes could restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes and to take certain actions.The indenture governing our 5.875% senior notes due 2023 and the credit agreement governing our senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility, or the “ABL,” contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose operating and financial restrictions on us and could limit our ability to engage in activities that might be in our long-term best interests, including, among other things, restrictions on our ability to: incur, assume or guarantee significant additional indebtedness; issue redeemable stock and preferred stock; pay dividends or make distributions or redeem or repurchase capital stock; prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt; make loans and investments; incur liens; restrict dividends, loans or asset transfers from our subsidiaries; sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries; consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person; enter into transactions with affiliates; and enter into new lines of business.A breach of the covenants under the indenture governing our notes or under the ABL could result in an event of default, which could allow holders and lenders, as the case may be, to accelerate their debt and could result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. An event of default under the ABL would also allow the lenders to terminate all commitments to extend further credit thereunder. If we were unable to repay amounts due and payable under the ABL, the lenders would have the right to proceed against the collateral securing the indebtedness. In any of these events, we and our subsidiaries might not have sufficient assets to repay the indebtedness. As a result, we could be: limited in how we conduct our business; unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during general economic or business downturns; or unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. Our operations require substantial capital and we may be unable to maintain adequate capital resources to provide for all of our capital requirements.Our businesses are capital intensive and require regular capital expenditures in order to maintain our equipment, increase our operating efficiency and comply with environmental laws. If our available cash resources and cash generated from operations are not sufficient to fund our operating needs and capital expenditures, we would either need to borrow or reduce or delay capital expenditures. If we cannot maintain or upgrade our equipment as we require, we may become unable to manufacture products that compete effectively. An inability to make required capital expenditures in a timely fashion could have a material adverse effect on our growth, business, financial condition or results of operations. We may not be successful in implementing our strategies to increase earnings power.Our corporate strategy includes, on the one hand, a profitable retreat from certain paper grades, and on the other, using our strong financial position to act on opportunities to diversify and grow. This could require significant capital investments with uncertain return outcomes, as we seek to improve our performance and margins by: leveraging our low-cost position; maintaining a stringent focus on costs; getting the most out of our access to virgin fiber; maximizing the utilization of our most cost-effective mills and streamlining production to adapt to changing market dynamics; and capitalizing on our economical access to international markets to compensate for the secular decline in North American newsprint demand. We also believe in taking an opportunistic approach to strategic initiatives, with a particular focus on reducing our cost position, improving our product diversification, providing synergies or allowing us to expand into future growth markets. There are risks associated with the implementation of these strategies, which are complicated and involve a substantial number of mills, machines, capital and personnel. To the extent we are unsuccessful in achieving these strategies, our results of operations may be adversely affected.Our manufacturing businesses may have difficulty obtaining wood fiber at favorable prices, or at all.Wood fiber is the principal raw material we use in our business. We use both virgin fiber - wood chips and logs - and recycled fiber - old newspapers, old magazines and sorted office paper - as fiber sources for our pulp and paper mills. The primary source for wood fiber is timber. Environmental litigation and regulatory developments have caused, and may cause in the future, significant reductions in the amount of timber available for commercial harvest in Canada and the United States. We depend heavily on harvesting rights and timber supply guarantees over crown land in Ontario and Québec, respectively, which are effectively renewable licenses granted by the provincial governments, subject to certain conditions. In particular, the 12Table of Contentsvolume of harvest permitted under these licenses is subject to limits, sometimes referred to as the “annual allowable cut,” which are reviewed regularly, typically every five years. For example, in 2006 the chief forester of the province of Québec ordered a reduction in the allowable harvest, from 2004 levels, of 24% over five years starting in 2008, with a final assessment expected this year. In 2011, the chief forester announced an interim reduction of a further 10% to the allowable harvest over 2013 and 2014. About 25% of the then remaining timber supply guarantees allocated in Québec were transferred to an open auction system that began to be implemented over the course of 2013. Accordingly, we cannot at this time estimate the full impact of these reductions to our guaranteed harvest levels, but it has subjected a significant portion of the fiber we need to operate our business to market forces, which could reduce availability and/or increase the costs to supply fiber. In addition to regulatory constraints, our supply of timber could be affected by future domestic or foreign regulation, litigation advanced by Aboriginal groups or other interested parties, and actions taken by environmental organizations to influence any of the foregoing. These activities could focus on any one or more of: the use of timberlands; forest management practices; sustainable forest management certification standards; the protection of endangered species; the promotion of forest biodiversity and the response to and prevention of catastrophic wildfires. Our access to timber may also be affected by factors such as fire and fire prevention, insect infestation, disease, ice storms, wind storms, drought, flooding and other natural and man-made causes, thereby potentially reducing supply and increasing prices. As is typical in the industry, we do not maintain insurance for any loss to our access to standing timber from natural disasters or other causes. Though timber is our primary source of fiber, we buy a significant portion of fiber on the open market as well. Wood fiber is a commodity; prices historically have been cyclical, and subject to market influences, which could be concentrated in any particular region due to market shifts. A sustained increase in the cost of purchased energy and other raw materials would lead to higher manufacturing costs, thereby reducing our margins.Our operations consume substantial amounts of energy, such as electricity, natural gas, fuel oil and wood residue, a substantial proportion of which we buy on the open market. The main raw materials we require in our manufacturing process are chemicals, wood fiber and recovered paper. The prices for raw materials and energy are volatile and may change rapidly, directly affecting our results of operations. The availability of raw materials and energy may also be disrupted by many factors outside our control, adversely affecting our operations. Energy prices, particularly for electricity, natural gas and fuel oil, have been volatile in recent years, and further fluctuations will impact our manufacturing costs and contribute to earnings volatility. The pricing of recycled fiber is also subject to market influences and has experienced significant fluctuations in recent years. For our commodity products, the relationship between industry supply and demand, rather than changes in the cost of raw materials, will determine our ability to increase prices. Consequently, we may be unable to pass along increases in our operating costs to our customers. Any sustained increase in energy, chemical or raw material prices without any corresponding increase in product pricing would reduce our operating margins and potentially require us to limit or cease operations of one or more of our machines. There also can be no certainty that we will be able to maintain our water rights, which are necessary for our hydroelectric power generating facilities, or to renew them at conditions comparable to those currently in effect.Our business is subject to global economic conditions; soft conditions could cause a number of the risks we face to increase in likelihood, magnitude and duration.Our operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions. During the global financial crisis and the slow recovery that has followed, customers across all of our businesses delayed and reduced expenditures in response to deteriorating macroeconomic and industry conditions and uncertainty, which has had a significant negative impact on the demand for our products and therefore, the cash flows of our businesses. If global economic conditions were to soften again, we would expect higher unemployment and lower gross domestic product growth rates to further affect demand for newsprint, specialty papers and pulp. We believe that in the last downturn, many end consumers reduced newspaper and magazine subscriptions as a direct result of their financial circumstances, contributing to lower demand for our products by our customers. Advertising demand in magazines and newspapers, including classified advertisements, and demand from automotive dealerships and real estate agencies was also impacted by higher unemployment, lower automobile sales and the tepid real estate environment. Lower demand for print advertisements leads to fewer pages in newspapers, magazines and other advertisement circulars and periodicals, decreasing the demand for our products. Furthermore, consumer and advertising-driven demand for our paper products could not recover from a downturn, even with an economic recovery, as purchasing habits could permanently change. Demand for our market pulp products is generally associated with production rates with paper producers, as well as consumption trends for products such as tissue, towelling and absorbent products.The economic downturn had a profoundly negative impact on the U.S. housing industry, which is a significant driver for demand of our lumber and other wood-based products, and could be expected to have a similar effect if global conditions were 13Table of Contentsto soften again. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, U.S. housing starts declined from approximately 2.1 million in 2005 to a low of approximately 0.6 million in 2009, reflecting a 71% decline. During these types of conditions, with a low level of primary demand for our lumber and other wood-based products, we would expect our wood products business to operate at a low level until there is a meaningful recovery in new residential construction demand. Furthermore, with less lumber demand, sawmills generate less wood chips that we use in our pulp and paper mills, which leads the pulp and paper mills to increase their supply from the open market, where prices can fluctuate with market conditions. We would also have less wood residue to use internally, which would increase our fossil fuel consumption and, as a result, our costs.Changes in laws and regulations could adversely affect our results of operations.We are subject to a variety of foreign, federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations dealing with trade, employees, transportation, taxes, timber and water rights, pension funding and the environment. Changes in these laws or regulations or their interpretations or enforcement have required in the past, and could require in the future, substantial expenditures by us and adversely affect our results of operations. For example, changes in environmental laws and regulations have in the past, and could in the future, require us to spend substantial amounts to comply with rules and regulations relating to air emissions, wastewater discharge, waste management, landfill sites, including investigation and remediation costs and greenhouse gas regulations. Environmental laws and their enforcement are becoming increasingly stringent. Consequently, our compliance and remediation costs could increase materially.Changes in the political or economic conditions in Canada, the United States or other countries in which our products are manufactured or sold could adversely affect our results of operations.We manufacture products in Canada, the United States and South Korea, and we sell products throughout the world. The economic and political climate of each region has a significant impact on our costs and the prices of, and demand for, our products. Changes in regional economies or political instability, including acts of war or terrorist activities, can affect the cost of manufacturing and distributing our products, pricing and sales volume, directly affecting our results of operations. These changes could also affect the availability or cost of insurance.We may be required to record additional environmental liabilities.We are subject to a wide range of general and industry-specific laws and regulations relating to pollution and the protection of the environment, including those governing air emissions, wastewater discharges, timber harvesting, the storage, management and disposal of regulated substances and waste, the investigation and clean-up of contaminated sites, landfill and lagoon operation and closure, forestry operations, endangered species habitat and health and safety. Noncompliance with these regulations can result in significant civil or criminal fines or penalties, damage to our reputation, claims by private parties or may require us to spend substantial amounts of money on pollution control equipment or additional wastewater treatment facilities. As an owner and operator of real estate and manufacturing and processing facilities, we may also be liable under environmental laws for cleanup and other costs and damages, including investigation costs, tort liability and damages to natural resources, resulting from past or present spills, releases or threats of releases of regulated substances and waste on or from our current or former properties. We may incur liability under these laws without regard to whether we knew of, were responsible for, or owned the property at the time of, any spill, release or threats of releases of any regulated substances or waste on or from any current or former property, or at properties where we arranged for the disposal of regulated materials. Claims may also arise out of currently unknown environmental conditions or aggressive enforcement efforts by government regulators, public interest groups or private parties. As a result of the above, we may be required to record additional environmental liabilities.We are subject to physical and financial risks associated with climate change.Our operations and the operations of our suppliers are subject to climate variations, which impact the productivity of forests, the distribution and abundance of species and the spread of disease or insect epidemics, which may adversely or positively affect timber production. Over the past several years, changing weather patterns and climatic conditions due to natural and man-made causes have added to the unpredictability and frequency of natural disasters such as hurricanes, earthquakes, hailstorms, wildfires, snow and ice storms, which could also affect our woodlands or cause variations in the cost for raw materials, such as fiber. Changes in precipitation resulting in droughts could adversely affect timber or our hydroelectric production, by increasing our energy costs.To the extent climate change impacts raw material availability or our hydroelectric production, it may also impact our costs and revenues. Furthermore, should financial markets view climate change as a financial risk, our ability to access capital markets or to receive acceptable terms and conditions could be affected.14Table of ContentsWe may be required to record additional long-lived asset impairment or accelerated depreciation charges.Losses related to the impairment of long-lived assets to be held and used are recognized when circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset group may not be recoverable, such as continuing losses or demand declines in certain businesses. When indicators that the carrying value of an asset group may not be recoverable are triggered, we evaluate the carrying value of the asset group in relation to its expected undiscounted future cash flows. If the carrying value of an asset group is greater than the expected undiscounted future cash flows to be generated by the asset group, an impairment charge is recognized based on the excess of the asset group’s carrying value over its fair value. If it is determined that the carrying value of an asset group is recoverable, we review and adjust, as necessary, the estimated useful lives of the assets in the group. If there were to be a triggering event, it is possible that we could record non-cash long-lived asset impairment or accelerated depreciation charges in future periods, which would be recorded as operating expenses and would directly and negatively impact our reported results of operations.The occurrence of natural or man-made disasters could disrupt our supply chain and the delivery of our products and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.The success of our businesses is largely contingent on the availability of direct access to raw materials and our ability to ship products on a timely basis. As a result, any event that disrupts or limits transportation or delivery services could materially and adversely affect our business. In addition, our operating results depend on the continued operation of our various production facilities and the ability to complete construction and maintenance projects on schedule. Material operating interruptions at our facilities, including interruptions caused by the events described below, could materially reduce the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility, or our business as a whole, during and after the period of such operational difficulties.Although we take precautions to enhance the safety of our operations and minimize the risk of disruptions, our operations are subject to hazards inherent in our business and the transportation of raw materials, products and wastes. These potential hazards include: explosions; fires; severe weather and natural disasters; mechanical failures; unscheduled downtimes; supplier disruptions; labor shortages or other labor difficulties; transportation interruptions; remediation complications; discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases; other environmental risks; and terrorist acts.Some of these hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage and can result in suspension of operations, the shutdown of affected facilities, reputational damage or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. Furthermore, we will also continue to be subject to present and future claims with respect to workplace exposure, exposure of contractors on our premises, as well as other persons located nearby, workers’ compensation and other matters.We maintain property, business interruption, product, general liability, casualty and other types of insurance, including pollution and legal liability, that we believe are in accordance with customary industry practices, but we are not fully insured against all potential hazards inherent in our business, including losses resulting from natural disasters, war risks or terrorist acts. Changes in insurance market conditions have caused, and may in the future cause, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies to increase substantially and in some instances, for certain insurance to become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, we might not be able to finance the amount of the uninsured liability on terms acceptable to us or at all, and might be obligated to divert a significant portion of our cash flow from normal business operations.There are significant holders of our common stock.There are several significant holders of our common stock who own a substantial percentage of the outstanding shares of our common stock. These holders could increase their percentage ownership of our common stock and may be in a position to influence the outcome of actions requiring shareholder approval, including, among other things, the election of board members. This concentration of ownership could also facilitate or hinder a negotiated change of control and consequently, impact the value of our common stock. Furthermore, the possibility that one or more of these holders may sell all or a large portion of our common stock in a short period of time may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.We are subject to cyber-security risks related to breaches of security pertaining to sensitive company, customer, employee and vendor information as well as breaches in the technology that manages operations and other business processes.We use information technologies to securely manage operations and various business functions. We rely on various technologies to process, store and report on our business and interact with customers, vendors and employees. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Despite our security design and controls, and those of our third party providers, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to cyber attacks by hackers or breaches due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach 15Table of Contentscould result in operational disruptions or the misappropriation of sensitive data that could subject us to civil and criminal penalties, litigation or have a negative impact on our reputation. There can be no assurance that such disruptions or misappropriations and the resulting repercussions will not negatively impact our cash flows and materially affect our results of operations or financial condition.Our international sales and operations are subject to applicable laws relating to trade, export controls and foreign corrupt practices, the violation of which could adversely affect our operations.As a result of our international sales and operations, we are subject to trade and economic sanctions and other restrictions imposed by the United States, Canada and other governments or organizations. We are also subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the Canadian Corruption of Foreign Public Officials Act, the United Kingdom Bribery Act 2010 and other anti-bribery laws that generally bar bribes or unreasonable gifts to foreign governments or officials. Changes in trade sanctions laws could restrict our business practices, including cessation of business activities in sanctioned countries or with sanctioned entities, and may result in modifications to compliance programs. Violations of these laws or regulations could result in sanctions including fines, loss of authorizations needed to conduct our international business and other penalties, which could adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition.We could pursue acquisitions, divestitures and other strategic transactions, the success of which could impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In the past, we have pursued acquisitions to complement or expand our business, divestures and other strategic transactions. Such future transactions are part of our general strategic objectives and may occur. If we identify an acquisition candidate, we may not be able to successfully negotiate or finance the acquisition or integrate the acquired businesses with our existing business and services. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities and the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, amortization expenses and substantial goodwill. The negotiation of any transaction, its completion, and subsequent integration of any business acquired may be complex and time consuming, involve significant costs and may result in a distraction of management’s attention from on-going business operations. We may be affected materially and adversely if we are unable to successfully integrate businesses that we acquire. Similarly, we may divest portions of our business, which may also have material and adverse effects.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.16Table of Contents